             OUTCOME DETERMINATION METHOD FOR GAMING DEVICE
                                ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
           Embodiments of this concept are directed to a method of operating a gaming device to
5 determine game outcomes by using a range of game numbers for winning game outcomes. That
  is, the gaming device includes a range of numbers associated with a generic winning outcome or
  each winning outcome to ensure that a winning outcome or specific winning outcome will hit
  within the specified range. This method may be used a variety of game types including slot
  machines, video poker, keno, video pachinko, etc. These gaming machines may additionally
0 include one or more proximity indicators or meters associated with the various outcomes.

       Attorney Docket No. 1351-0090/Application No. Filed Herewith
                                 1/16
                               19                                   10
                               18
                                                                        55
27FIG                                                                26
28,/                           20
                                                                       25
                                                                           12
 32,-   -              * * *         03
  40 -                                                        ---        1
42,/N                                                        -- \45
                                            47
        Network                                     46
                       50
                           FIG. 1A

                                                  TITLE
 5                        "Outcome Determination Method for Gaming Device"
           Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word "comprise"
   and variations such as "comprises", "comprising" and "comprised" are to be understood to imply
 0 the presence of a stated integer or group of integers but not the exclusion of any other integer or
   group of integers.
           Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word "include"
   and variations such as "includes", "including" and "included" are to be understood to imply the
   presence of a stated integer or group of integers but not the exclusion of any other integer or
 5 group of integers.
                                           TECHNICAL FIELD
           This disclosure relates generally to gaming devices, and more particularly to outcome
   determination methods for use with gaming devices.
 0
                                          BACKGROUND ART
           Any discussion of background art, any reference to a document and any reference to
   information that is known, which is contained in this specification, is provided only for the
   purpose of facilitating an understanding of the background art to the present invention, and is not
25 an acknowledgement or admission that any of that material forms part of the common general
   knowledge in Australia or any other country as at the priority date of the application in relation
   to which this specification has been filed.
           Typically game results of gaming devices are determined by analyzing a series of random
   selections associated with the game. For example, in spinning reel slot machines, a reel-stop
30 position for each reel is randomly selected. Once each random selection is made, the
   combination of randomly selected reel-stop positions is analyzed to determine if the combination
   of symbols associated with the reel-stop positions results in an award for the player. Similarly,
                                                     1

   in video poker or blackjack random cards are selected and then analyzed to see if the
   combination of randomly selected cards results in an award for the player.
            The process of making a series of random selections and then analyzing the results of
   these selections imposes several limitations both in the capabilities of gaming devices and the
 5 design of the games on the gaming devices. For the game devices themselves, the above process
   relies on multiple random selections in order to arrive at a specific outcome, which often makes
   for a very skewed distribution timelines for some awards and bonuses. Additionally, this
   conventional process limits the flexibility of the machine in awarding specific outcomes resulting
   from other triggering events. In the slot machine example, a random number must be used for
 0 each reel to determine which reel stop or stops are to be displayed on a game outcome display.
   With this conventional technique, large awards, for example, may hit on average only once every
   10,000 games and secondary bonus games may hit, for example, once every 75 games on
   average. Due to the random nature of the determination process, however, the large award may
   still not have hit 100,000 games after the last time it hit. The bonus, on the other hand, may hit
 5 two times in a row and then not hit again for 250 games. Players are aware of the volatile nature
   of gaming devices; however, a player that experiences a long losing streak or a long streak with
   no significant wins may get frustrated and leave. Even if a player is not aware that a bonus may
   hit, for example, every 75 games on average, the player may expect the bonus or another
   significant award to occur periodically to stem the continued reduction of credits on the games
 0 credit meter from placing repeated wagers on the gaming device.
            For demonstration purposes, certain reel stop combinations can be programmed into the
   game logic to illustrate a particular bonus or jackpot win. However, during actual game play in
   which a player is wagering on the outcome of the gaming device, the game outcomes are often
   limited by the combination of randomly selected reel stops; thereby limiting the ability to dictate
25 certain symbol combinations displayed on the reels in response to triggering events. This
   dictation of certain symbol combinations may be desirable to alter the payback percentage of the
   gaming devices, provide bonuses to the players, or guarantee that certain gaming events happen
   within a given time frame.
            In addition, during the design of a gaming device having spinning reels, it is often
30 difficult to obtain multiple exact payback percentages for a given gaming machine because of the
   limitations involved in assigning values to each reel stop and/or setting up reel strips. For
                                                      2

   mechanical spinning reel games, reel strips typically include twenty-two physical reel stops.
   Game designers may assign a certain number of virtual stops or paytable stops to each of these
   physical stops to allow large prizes to be given away less than once every 10,648 spins. This
   allocation of virtual stops can be challenging when attempting to meet multiple precise payback
 5 percentage paytables as well as difficult in setting hit frequencies of winning symbol
   combinations. For multi-line video slot games, more precise payback percentage paytables are
   easier to obtain, but it still is difficult to balance the desired hit frequencies of certain outcomes
   with dialing in the desired payback percentage for the entire game paytable.
 0                                        SUMMARY OF INVENTION
   In accordance with the present invention, there is provided a method of operating a gaming
   device, the method comprising:
           receiving a game initiating input;
           incrementing a game counter to indicate an entry in a table of game outcomes;
 5         displaying the indicated game outcome on the gaming device when the indicated game
   outcome is a winning outcome; and
           selecting and displaying an outcome when the indicated game outcome is a losing
   outcome.
           Displaying the indicated game outcome on the gaming device when the indicated game
 0 outcome is a winning outcome may include:
           selecting display characteristics for the winning outcome; and
           displaying the winning outcome using the selected display characteristics.
           In one embodiment, when the indicated game outcome includes first and second winning
   outcomes:
25         displaying the first winning outcome; and
           thereafter automatically displaying the second winning outcome.
           In another embodiment, when the indicated game outcome includes first and second
   winning outcomes:
           determining which of the first and second winning outcomes is associated with a larger
30 award; and
           displaying the determined outcome with the larger associated award.
                                                          3

           In another embodiment, when the indicated game outcome includes first and second
   winning outcomes:
           displaying the first winning outcome;
           receiving another game initiating input; and
 5         thereafter displaying the second winning outcome.
           In accordance with another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method of
   operating a gaming device, the method comprising:
           presenting a player with a particular type of winning game outcome;
           selecting a next occurrence of the particular type of winning game outcome from a range
 0 of numbers associated with the particular type of winning game outcome;
           entering the selected next occurrence of the particular type of winning game outcome in a
   table of game outcomes;
           incrementing a game counter that indicates a current game outcome in the table of game
   outcomes in response to wagers placed on the gaming device; and
 5         presenting the player with the particular type of winning game outcome when the game
   counter indicates the next occurrence of the particular type of winning game outcome in a table
   of game outcomes.
           Selecting a next occurrence of the particular type of winning game outcome may include:
           randomly selecting a number within the range of numbers associated with the particular
 0 type of winning game outcome; and
           combining the randomly selected number with a current value of the game counter.
           Entering the selected next occurrence of the particular type of winning game outcome in
   a table of game outcomes may include associating next occurrence of the particular type of
   winning game outcome with a game number in the table of game outcomes.
25         Incrementing a game counter may include sequentially moving between game numbers
   associated with game outcomes in the table of game outcomes.
           Presenting the player with the particular type of winning game outcome when the game
   counter indicates the next occurrence of the particular type of winning game outcome in a table
   of game outcomes may include displaying a winning game outcome and providing an award
30 corresponding to the winning game outcome when the game counter indicates the game number
   associated with the next occurrence of the particular type of winning game outcome.
                                                      4

           In accordance with another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a game
   device comprising:
           a player interface panel including at least one game initiation device;
 5         a memory to store a table of sequential game outcomes;
           a processor configured to increment a game counter that indicates at least one of the
   sequential game outcomes and further configured to determine display parameters of each
   indicated game outcome; and
           a game display to show each indicated game outcome having the determined display
 0 parameters.
           The processor may be configured to determine the display parameters of a game outcome
   associated with an award by selecting reel stops corresponding to the game outcome.
           The processor may be configured to determine the display parameters of a losing game
   outcome by selecting reel stops and confirming that the selected reel stops do not result in a
 5 winning outcome.
           The processor may be configured to determine the display parameters of a game outcome
   associated with an award by selecting cards corresponding to the game outcome.
           The processor may be further configured to rearrange an order of the selected cards and
   confirm that the rearranged order will result in the game outcome using a best strategy.
 0         The processor may be configured to determine the display parameters of a losing game
   outcome by selecting cards and confirming that the selected cards do not result in a winning
   outcome when using a best strategy.
           The table of sequential game outcomes may identify whether each stored game outcome
   is one of a plurality of possible winning game outcomes or a generic losing outcome.
25         Each of the plurality of possible winning outcomes may have a corresponding range
   within which it will appear in the stored table of sequential game outcomes.
           The processor may be further configured to select a number within a corresponding range
   to determine an entry in the table of sequential game outcomes to place a winning game
   outcome.
30         The processor may be further configured to fill any empty entries in the table of
   sequential game outcomes with the generic losing outcome.
                                                      5

            At least one of the ranges respectively corresponding to the plurality of winning game
   outcomes may be modifiable by a casino operator to alter the table ranges of each outcome.
            At least one of the ranges respectively corresponding to the plurality of winning game
   outcomes may be modifiable based on game events occurring on the game device.
 5          At least one of the ranges respectively corresponding to the plurality of winning game
   outcomes may be modifiable based on characteristics of a player.
            The gaming device may further comprise a plurality of win proximity meters respectively
   corresponding to each of the plurality of possible winning game outcomes.
            The gaming device may further comprise at least one win proximity meter.
 0          In accordance with another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method of
   operating an electronic gaming device operable to repeatedly play a game responsive to a game
   initiating input by a player, the method comprising:
            establishing a plurality of different winning game outcomes;
            determining a game number count;
 5          for each winning game outcome, establishing a different, predetermined range of game
   numbers within which the associated winning game outcome must occur;
            selecting a different triggering game number from within each predetermined range of
   game numbers;
            entering each triggering game number and the associated winning game outcome into a
 0 table of game outcomes;
            entering losing game outcomes into the table of outcomes; receiving a game initiating
   input at the electronic gaming device;
            incrementing a game counter to indicate an entry in the table of game outcomes;
            displaying the associated winning game outcome on the gaming device when the
25 indicated entry is a triggering game number; and
            selecting and displaying an outcome when the indicated entry is a losing outcome.
            Displaying the associated winning game outcome on the gaming device when the
   indicated entry is a triggering game number may include:
            selecting display characteristics for the winning outcome; and
30          displaying the winning outcome using the selected display characteristics.
                                                       6

            In one embodiment, when the indicated entry includes first and second winning
   outcomes, and wherein the method further includes:
            displaying the first winning outcome; and
            thereafter automatically displaying the second winning outcome.
 5          In another embodiment, when the indicated entry includes first and second winning
   outcomes, the method may further include:
            determining which of the first and second winning outcomes is associated with a larger
   award; and
            displaying the determined outcome with the larger associated award.
 0          In another embodiment, when the indicated entry includes first and second winning
   outcomes, the method may further include:
            displaying the first winning outcome;
            receiving another game initiating input; and
            thereafter displaying the second winning outcome.
 5          In accordance with another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method of
   operating an electronic gaming device operable to repeatedly play a game responsive to a game
   initiating input by a player, the method comprising:
            presenting a player with a particular type of winning game outcome;
            selecting a next occurrence of the particular type of winning game outcome from a range
 0 of numbers associated with the particular type of winning game outcome;
            entering the selected next occurrence of the particular type of winning game outcome in a
   table of game outcomes;
            incrementing a game counter that indicates a current game outcome in the table of game
   outcomes in response to wagers placed on the gaming device; and
25          presenting the player with the particular type of winning game outcome on the electronic
   gaming device when the game counter indicates the next occurrence of the particular type of
   winning game outcome in a table of game outcomes, wherein selecting a next occurrence of the
   particular type of winning game outcome includes:
            randomly selecting a number within the range of numbers associated with the particular
30 type of winning game outcome; and
                                                       7

           combining the randomly selected number with a current value of the game counter; and
   wherein entering the selected next occurrence of the particular type of winning game outcome in
   a table of game outcomes includes associating next occurrence of the particular type of winning
   game outcome with a game number in the table of game outcomes.
 5         Incrementing a game counter may include sequentially moving between game numbers
   associated with game outcomes in the table of game outcomes.
           Presenting the player with the particular type of winning game outcome when the game
   counter indicates the next occurrence of the particular type of winning game outcome in a table
   of game outcomes may include displaying a winning game outcome and providing an award
 0 corresponding to the winning game outcome when the game counter indicates the game number
   associated with the next occurrence of the particular type of winning game outcome.
           In accordance with another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a game
   device comprising:
           a player interface panel including at least one game initiation device;
 5         a memory to store a table of sequential game outcomes, the table of sequential game
   outcomes being configured to identify whether each stored game outcome is one of a plurality of
   possible winning game outcomes or a generic losing outcome;
           a processor configured to increment a game counter that indicates at least one of the
   sequential game outcomes and further configured to determine display parameters of each
 0 indicated game outcome;
           a game display to show each indicated game outcome having the determined display
   parameters; and
           a plurality of win proximity meters respectively corresponding to each of the plurality of
   possible winning game outcomes.
25         The processor may be configured to determine the display parameters of a game outcome
   associated with an award by selecting reel stops corresponding to the game outcome.
           The processor may be configured to determine the display parameters of a losing game
   outcome by selecting reel stops and confirming that the selected reel stops do not result in a
   winning outcome.
30         The processor may be configured to determine the display parameters of a game outcome
   associated with an award by selecting cards corresponding to the game outcome.
                                                      8

            The processor may be further configured to rearrange an order of the selected cards and
   confirm that the rearranged order will result in the game outcome using a best strategy.
            The processor may be configured to determine the display parameters of a losing game
   outcome by selecting cards and confirming that the selected cards do not result in a winning
 5 outcome when using a best strategy.
            Each of the plurality of possible winning outcomes may have a corresponding range
   within which it will appear in the stored table of sequential game outcomes.
            The processor may be further configured to select a number within a corresponding range
   to determine an entry in the table of sequential game outcomes to place a winning game
 0 outcome.
            The processor may be further configured to fill any empty entries in the table of
   sequential game outcomes with the generic losing outcome.
            At least one of the ranges respectively corresponding to the plurality of winning game
   outcomes may be modifiable by a casino operator to alter the table ranges of each outcome.
 5          At least one of the ranges respectively corresponding to the plurality of winning game
   outcomes may be modifiable based on game events occurring on the game device.
            At least one of the ranges respectively corresponding to the plurality of winning game
   outcomes may be modifiable based on characteristics of a player.
            In accordance with another aspect of the present invention, there is provided amethod of
 0 operating a gaming device, the method comprising:
            determining a game number count;
            selecting a triggering game number from a predetermined range of game numbers for at
   least one of a plurality of winning game outcomes;
            receiving a game initiating input;
25          incrementing the game number count; and
            displaying the winning game outcome when game number count is greater than or equal
   to the triggering game number,
            wherein selecting a triggering game number for at least one of a plurality of winning
   game outcomes from a predetermined range of game numbers includes respectively selecting
30 triggering game numbers for each possible winning game outcome from predetermined ranges of
   game numbers associated with the possible winning game outcomes.
                                                      9

                               BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           The present invention will now be described, by way of example only, with reference to
   the accompanying drawings, in which:
 5         FIG. 1A is a functional block diagram that illustrates a gaming device according to
   embodiments of the invention.
           FIG. 1B is an isometric view of the gaming device illustrated in FIG. 1A.
           FIGs. 2A, 2B, and 2C are detail diagrams of exemplary types of gaming devices
   according to embodiments of the invention.
 0         FIG. 3 is a functional block diagram of networked gaming devices according to
   embodiments of the invention.
           FIG. 4A is an illustrated representation of an exemplary paytable for a gaming device
   according to embodiments of the invention.
           FIG. 4B is an illustrated representation of exemplary reel strips for a gaming device
 5 according to embodiments of the invention.
           FIG. 4C is an illustrated representation of an exemplary outcome selection chart for a
   gaming device according to embodiments of the invention.
           FIG. 4D is an illustrated representation of an exemplary game outcome table for a
   gaming device according to embodiments of the invention.
 0         FIG. 4E is an illustrated representation of another exemplary game outcome table for a
   gaming device according to embodiments of the invention.
           FIG. 5 is a detail diagram of a gaming device according to embodiments of the invention.
           FIG. 6 is a detail diagram of another gaming device according to embodiments of the
   invention.
25         FIG. 7 is a flow diagram of a method of determining a game outcome on a gaming device
   according to embodiments of the invention.
           FIGs. 8A and 8B are flow diagrams of methods of setting an outcome trigger number on
   a gaming device according to embodiments of the invention.
           FIGs. 9A, 9B, and 9C are flow diagrams of methods of operating a gaming device when
30 multiple winning game outcomes are indicated for a single game.
                                                     10

                                 DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
            FIGs. 1A and 1B illustrate example gaming devices according to embodiments of the
   invention.
            Referring to FIGs. 1A and 1B, a gaming device 10 is an electronic gaming machine.
 5 Although an electronic gaming machine or "slot" machine is illustrated, various other types of
   devices may be used to wager monetarily based credits on a game of chance in accordance with
   principles of the invention. The term "electronic gaming device" is meant to include various
   devices such as electro-mechanical spinning-reel type slot machines, video slot machines, and
   video poker machines, for instance. Other gaming devices may include computer-based gaming
 0 machines, wireless gaming devices, multi-player gaming stations, modified personal electronic
   gaming devices (such as cell phones), personal computers, server-based gaming terminals, and
   other similar devices. Although embodiments of the invention will work with all of the gaming
   types mentioned, for ease of illustration the present embodiments will be described in reference
   to the electronic gaming machine 10 shown in FIGs. 1A and 1B.
 5          The gaming device 10 includes a cabinet 15 housing components to operate the gaming
   device 10. The cabinet 15 may include a gaming display 20, a base portion 13, a top box 18, and
   a player interface panel 30. The gaming display 20 may include mechanical spinning reels (FIG.
   2A), a video display (FIGs. 2B and 2C), or a combination of both spinning reels and a video
   display (not shown). The gaming cabinet 15 may also include a credit meter 27 and a coin-in or
 0 bet meter 28. The credit meter 27 may indicate the total number of credits remaining on the
   gaming device 10 that are eligible to be wagered. In some embodiments, the credit meter 27
   may reflect a monetary unit, such as dollars. However, it is often preferable to have the credit
   meter 27 reflect a number of 'credits,' rather than a monetary unit. The bet meter 28 may
   indicate the amount of credits to be wagered on a particular game. Thus, for each game, the
25 player transfers the amount that he or she wants to wager from the credit meter 27 to the bet
   meter 28. In some embodiments, various other meters may be present, such as meters reflecting
   amounts won, amounts paid, or the like. In embodiments where the gaming display 20 is a video
   monitor, the information indicated on the credit meters may be shown on the gaming display
   itself 20 (FIG. 2B).
30          The base portion 13 may include a lighted panel 14, a coin return (not shown), and a
   gaming handle 12 operable on a partially rotating pivot joint 11. The game handle 12 is
                                                     11

   traditionally included on mechanical spinning-reel games, where the handle may be pulled
   toward a player to initiate the spinning of reels 22 after placement of a wager. The top box 18
   may include a lighted panel 17, a video display (such as an LCD monitor), a mechanical bonus
   device (not shown), and a candle light indicator 19. The player interface panel 30 may include
 5 various devices so that a player can interact with the gaming device 10.
            The player interface panel 30 may include one or more game buttons 32 that can be
   actuated by the player to cause the gaming device 10 to perform a specific action. For example,
   some of the game buttons 32 may cause the gaming device 10 to bet a credit to be wagered
   during the next game, change the number of lines being played on a multi-line game, cash out
 0 the credits remaining on the gaming device (as indicated on the credit meter 27), or request
   assistance from casino personnel, such as by lighting the candle 19. In addition, the player
   interface panel 30 may include one or more game actuating buttons 33. The game actuating
   buttons 33 may initiate a game with a pre-specified amount of credits. On some gaming devices
   10 a "Max Bet" game actuating button 33 may be included that places the maximum credit
 5 wager on a game and initiates the game. The player interface panel 30 may further include a bill
   acceptor 37 and a ticket printer 38. The bill acceptor 37 may accept and validate paper money or
   previously printed tickets with a credit balance. The ticket printer 38 may print out tickets
   reflecting the balance of the credits that remain on the gaming device 10 when a player cashes
   out by pressing one of the game buttons 32 programmed to cause a 'cashout.'      These tickets may
 0 be inserted into other gaming machines or redeemed at a cashier station or kiosk for cash.
            The gaming device 10 may also include one or more speakers 26 to transmit auditory
   information or sounds to the player. The auditory information may include specific sounds
   associated with particular events that occur during game play on the gaming device 10. For
   example, a particularly festive sound may be played during a large win or when a bonus is
25 triggered. The speakers 26 may also transmit "attract" sounds to entice nearby players when the
   game is not currently being played.
            The gaming device 10 may further include a secondary display 25. This secondary
   display 25 may be a vacuum fluorescent display (VFD), a liquid crystal display (LCD), a cathode
   ray tube (CRT), a plasma screen, or the like. The secondary display 25 may show any
30 combination of primary game information and ancillary information to the player. For example,
                                                      12

   the secondary display 25 may show player tracking information, secondary bonus information,
   advertisements, or player selectable game options.
           The gaming device 10 may include a separate information window (not shown) dedicated
   to supplying any combination of information related to primary game play, secondary bonus
 5 information, player tracking information, secondary bonus information, advertisements or player
   selectable game options. This window may be fixed in size and location or may have its size and
   location vary temporally as communication needs change. One example of such a resizable
   window is International Game Technology's "service window." Another example is Las Vegas
   Gaming Incorporated's retrofit technology which allows information to be placed over areas of
 0 the game or the secondary display screen at various times and in various situations.
           The gaming device 10 includes a microprocessor 40 that controls operation of the gaming
   device 10. If the gaming device 10 is a standalone gaming device, the microprocessor 40 may
   control virtually all of the operations of the gaming devices and attached equipment, such as
   operating game logic stored in memory (not shown) as firmware, controlling the display 20 to
 5 represent the outcome of a game, communicating with the other peripheral devices (such as the
   bill acceptor 37), and orchestrating the lighting and sound emanating from the gaming device 10.
   In other embodiments where the gaming device 10 is coupled to a network 50, as described
   below, the microprocessor 40 may have different tasks depending on the setup and function of
   the gaming device. For example, the microprocessor 40 may be responsible for running the base
 0 game of the gaming device and executing instructions received over the network 50 from a
   bonus server or player tracking server. In a server-based gaming setup, the microprocessor 40
   may act as a terminal to execute instructions from a remote server that is running game play on
   the gaming device.
           The microprocessor 40 may be coupled to a machine communication interface (MCI) 42
25 that connects the gaming device 10 to a gaming network 50. The MCI 42 may be coupled to the
   microprocessor 40 through a serial connection, a parallel connection, an optical connection, or in
   some cases a wireless connection. The gaming device 10 may include memory 41 (MEM), such
   as a random access memory (RAM), coupled to the microprocessor 40 and which can be used to
   store gaming information, such as storing total coin-in statistics about a present or past gaming
30 session, which can be communicated to a remote server or database through the MCI 42. The
                                                     13

   MCI 42 may also facilitate communication between the network 50 and the secondary display 25
   or a player tracking unit 45 housed in the gaming cabinet 15.
            The player tracking unit 45 may include an identification device 46 and one or more
   buttons 47 associated with the player tracking unit 45. The identification device 46 serves to
 5 identify a player, by, for example, reading a player-tracking device, such as a player tracking
   card that is issued by the casino to individual players who choose to have such a card. The
   identification device 46 may instead, or additionally, identify players through other methods.
   Player tracking systems using player tracking cards and card readers 46 are known in the art.
   Briefly summarizing such a system, a player registers with the casino prior to commencing
 0 gaming. The casino issues a unique player-tracking card to the player and opens a corresponding
   player account that is stored on a server or host computer, described below with reference to
   FIG. 3. The player account may include the player's name and mailing address and other
   information of interest to the casino in connection with marketing efforts. Prior to playing one of
   the gaming devices in the casino, the player inserts the player tracking card into the identification
 5 device 46 thus permitting the casino to track player activity, such as amounts wagered, credits
   won, and rate of play.
            To induce the player to use the card and be an identified player, the casino may award
   each player points proportional to the money or credits wagered by the player. Players typically
   accrue points at a rate related to the amount wagered, although other factors may cause the
 0 casino to award the player various amounts. The points may be displayed on the secondary
   display 25 or using other methods. In conventional player tracking systems, the player may take
   his or her card to a special desk in the casino where a casino employee scans the card to
   determine how many accrued points are in the player's account. The player may redeem points
   for selected merchandise, meals in casino restaurants, or the like, which each have assigned point
25 values. In some player tracking systems, the player may use the secondary display 25 to access
   their player tracking account, such as to check a total number of points, redeem points for various
   services, make changes to their account, or download promotional credits to the gaming device 10.
   In other embodiments, the identification device 46 may read other identifying cards (such as driver
   licenses, credit cards, etc.) to identify a player and match them to a corresponding player tracking
30 account. Although FIG. 1A shows the player tracking unit 45 with a card reader as the
   identification device 46, other embodiments may include a player tracking unit 45 with a biometric
                                                        14

   scanner, PIN code acceptor, or other methods of identifying a player to pair the player with their
   player tracking account.
            A player typically plays the gaming device 10 by placing a wager and activating an input
   mechanism to initiate a game associated with the placed wager. As used herein, a gaming event
 5 refers to any activity that affects the calculation or display of a game outcome. Game events
   include interactions occurring between the gaming device 10, the player, and/or a connected
   game system. Example gaming events include a player inserting a player account card in a
   gaming device, a double-pay bonus time period activation, a first spinning reel coming to a stop,
   a player's input to hold a card in a poker hand, etc. A game refers to the calculation and
 0 completion of one game outcome. That is, a game includes a single game cycle that begins with
   the initiation of the wagered upon game and ends with the completion of all activities relating to
   the wager placed including any intervening bonuses. In other words, a game encompasses all
   gaming events dependent on a placed wager during an initiated game including all amounts due
   the player that are paid directly by the gaming machine, or as a manual payment by casino
 5 personnel to the player playing that gaming machine. For example, if an item was awarded as a
   result of a wager that could be saved and used later, the game would encompass the awarding of
   the item, which is part of the game outcome, but not the later use of that item since the later use
   would affect a different game outcome. A game session refers to one or more played games.
   For example, a game session for a particular player may include each game played on a specific
 0 gaming device, each game played between insertions of money or credits, each game played
   between an initial money or credit insertion and a cash-out or zeroing out of credits, each game
   played during a casino stay, or each game played over a predetermined time period.
   Alternatively, game sessions may refer to games played by multiple players over a specified time
   period or event period with respect to a particular gaming device or group of gaming devices.
25          The player may initially insert monetary bills or previously printed tickets with a credit
   value into the bill acceptor 37. The player may also put coins into a coin acceptor (not shown) or
   a credit, debit or casino account card into a card reader/authorizer (not shown). In other
   embodiments, stored player points or special 'bonus points' awarded to the player or
   accumulated and/or stored in a player account may be able to be substituted at or transferred to
30 the gaming device 10 for credits or other value. For example, a player may convert stored
   loyalty points to credits or transfer funds from his bank account, credit card, casino account or
                                                       15

   other source of funding. The selected source of funding may be selected by the player at time of
   transfer, determined by the casino at the time of transfer or occur automatically according to a
   predefined selection process. One of skill in the art will readily see that this invention is useful
   with all gambling devices, regardless of the manner in which wager value-input is accomplished.
 5          The credit meter 27 displays the numeric credit value of the money or other value
   inserted, transferred, or stored dependent on the denomination of the gaming device 10. That is,
   if the gaming device 10 is a nickel slot machine and a $20 bill inserted into the bill acceptor 37,
   the credit meter will reflect 400 credits or one credit for each nickel of the inserted twenty
   dollars. For gaming devices 10 that support multiple denominations, the credit meter 27 will
 0 reflect the amount of credits relative to the denomination selected. Thus, in the above example,
   if a penny denomination is selected after the $20 is inserted the credit meter will change from
   400 credits to 2000 credits.
            A wager may be placed by pushing one or more of the game buttons 32, which may be
   reflected on the bet meter 28. That is, the player can generally depress a "bet one" button (one of
 5 the buttons on the player interface panel 30, such as 32), which transfers one credit from the
   credit meter 27 to the bet meter 28. Each time the button 32 is depressed an additional single
   credit transfers to the bet meter 28 up to a maximum bet that can be placed on a single play of
   the electronic gaming device 10. The game may be initiated by pulling the gaming handle 12 or
   depressing the spin button 33. On some gaming devices 10, a "max bet" button (another one of
 0 the buttons 32 on the player interface panel 30) may be depressed to wager the maximum
   number of credits supported by the gaming device 10 and initiate a game.
            If the game does not result in any winning combination, the process of placing a wager
   may be repeated by the player. Alternatively, the player may cash out any remaining credits on
   the credit meter 27 by depressing the "cash-out" button (another button 32 on the player interface
25 panel 30), which causes the credits on the credit meter 27 to be paid out in the form of a ticket
   through the ticket printer 38, or may be paid out in the form of returning coins from a coin
   hopper (not shown) to a coin return tray.
            If instead a winning combination (win) appears on the display 20, the award
   corresponding to the winning combination is immediately applied to the credit meter 27. For
30 example, if the gaming device 10 is a slot machine, a winning combination of symbols 23 may
   land on a played payline on reels 22. If any bonus games are initiated, the gaming device 10
                                                      16

   may enter into a bonus mode or simply award the player with a bonus amount of credits that are
   applied to the credit meter 27.
            FIGs. 2A to 2C illustrate exemplary types of gaming devices according to embodiments
   of the invention. FIG. 2A illustrates an example spinning-reel gaming machine 1OA, FIG. 2B
 5 illustrates an example video slot machine 1OB, and FIG. 2C illustrates an example video poker
   machine 1OC.
            Referring to FIG. 2A, a spinning-reel gaming machine 1OA includes a gaming display
   20A having a plurality of mechanical spinning reels 22A. Typically, spinning-reel gaming
   machines 10A have three to five spinning reels 22A. Each of the spinning reels 22A has
 0 multiple symbols 23A that may be separated by blank areas on the spinning reels 22A, although
   the presence of blank areas typically depends on the number of reels 22A present in the gaming
   device 1OA and the number of different symbols 23A that may appear on the spinning reels 22A.
   Each of the symbols 22A or blank areas makes up a "stop" on the spinning reel 22A where the
   reel 22A comes to rest after a spin. Although the spinning reels 22A of various games 10A may
 5 have various numbers of stops, many conventional spinning-reel gaming devices 10A have reels
   22A with twenty two stops.
            During game play, the spinning reels 22A may be controlled by stepper motors (not
   shown) under the direction of the microprocessor 40 (FIG. 1A). Thus, although the spinning-reel
   gaming device 1OA has mechanical based spinning reels 22A, the movement of the reels
 0 themselves is electronically controlled to spin and stop. This electronic control is advantageous
   because it allows a virtual reel strip to be stored in the memory 41 of the gaming device 10A,
   where various "virtual stops" are mapped to each physical stop on the physical reel 22A. This
   mapping allows the gaming device 1OA to establish greater awards and bonuses available to the
   player because of the increased number of possible combinations afforded by the virtual reel
25 strips.
            A game on a spinning reel slot machine 1OA typically includes the player pressing the
   "bet-one" button (one of the game buttons 32A) to wager a desired number of credits followed
   by pulling the gaming handle 12 (FIGs. 1A, 1B) or pressing the spin button 33A to spin the reels
   22A. Alternatively, the player may simply press the "max-bet" button (another one of the game
30 buttons 32A) to both wager the maximum number of credits permitted and initiate the spinning
   of the reels 22A. The spinning reels 22A may all stop at the same time or may individually stop
                                                       17

   one after another (typically from left to right) to build player anticipation. Because the display
   20A usually cannot be physically modified, some spinning reel slot machines 1OA include an
   electronic display screen in the top box 18 (FIG. 1B), a mechanical bonus mechanism in the top
   box 18, or a secondary display 25 (FIG. 1A) to execute a bonus.
 5          Referring to FIG. 2B, a video gaming machine 1OB may include a video display 20B to
   display virtual spinning reels 22B and various other gaming information 21B. The video display
   20B may be a CRT, LCD, plasma screen, or the like. It is usually preferable that the video
   display 20B be a touchscreen to accept player input. A number of symbols 23A appear on each
   of the virtual spinning reels 22B. Although FIG. 2B shows five virtual spinning reels 22B, the
 0 flexibility of the video display 20B allows for various reel 22B and game configurations. For
   example, some video slot games 1OB spin reels for each individual symbol position (or stop) that
   appears on the video display 20B. That is, each symbol position on the screen is independent of
   every other position during the games. In these types of games, very large numbers of pay lines
   or multiple super scatter pays can be utilized since similar symbols could appear at every symbol
 5 position on the video display 20B. On the other hand, other video slot games 1OB more closely
   resemble the mechanical spinning reel games where symbols that are vertically adjacent to each
   other are part of the same continuous virtual spinning reel 22B.
            Because the virtual spinning reels 22B, by virtue of being computer implemented, can
   have almost any number of stops on a reel strip, it is much easier to have a greater variety of
 0 displayed outcomes as compared to spinning-reel slot machines 1OA (FIG. 2A) that have a fixed
   number of physical stops on each spinning reel 22A.
            With the possible increases in reel 22B numbers and configurations over the mechanical
   gaming device 1OA, video gaming devices 1OB often have multiple paylines 24 that may be
   played. By having more paylines 24 available to play, the player may be more likely to have a
25 winning combination when the reels 22B stop and the game ends. However, since the player
   typically must wager at least a minimum number of credits to enable each payline 24 to be
   eligible for winning, the overall odds of winning are not much different, if at all, than if the
   player is wagering only on a single payline. For example, in a five line game, the player may bet
   one credit per payline 24 and be eligible for winning symbol combinations that appear on any of
30 the five played paylines 24. This gives a total of five credits wagered and five possible winning
   paylines 24. If, on the other hand, the player only wagers one credit on one payline 24, but plays
                                                      18

   five games, the odds of winning would be identical as above: five credits wagered and five
   possible winning paylines 24.
            Because the video display 20B can easily modify the image output by the video display
   20B, bonuses, such as second screen bonuses are relatively easy to award on the video slot game
 5 1OB. That is, if a bonus is triggered during game play, the video display 20B may simply store
   the resulting screen shot in memory and display a bonus sequence on the video display 20B.
   After the bonus sequence is completed, the video display 20B may then retrieve the previous
   screen shot and information from memory, and re-display that image.
            Also, as mentioned above, the video display 20B may allow various other game
 0 information 21B to be displayed. For example, as shown in FIG. 2B, banner information may be
   displayed above the spinning reels 22B to inform the player, perhaps, which symbol combination
   is needed to trigger a bonus. Also, instead of providing a separate credit meter 27 (FIG. 1A) and
   bet meter 28, the same information can instead be displayed on the video display 20B. In
   addition, "soft buttons" 29B such as a "spin" button or "help/see pays" button may be built using
 5 the touch screen video display 20B. Such customization and ease of changing the image shown
   on the display 20B adds to the flexibility of the game 1OB.
            Even with the improved flexibility afforded by the video display 20B, several physical
   buttons 32B and 33B are usually provided on video slot machines 1OB. These buttons may
   include game buttons 32B that allow a player to choose the number of paylines 24 he or she
 0 would like to play and the number of credits wagered on each payline 24. In addition, a max bet
   button (one of the game buttons 32B) allows a player to place a maximum credit wager on the
   maximum number of available paylines 24 and initiate a game. A repeat bet or spin button 33B
   may also be used to initiate each game when the max bet button is not used.
            Referring to FIG. 2C, a video poker gaming device 1OC may include a video display 20C
25 that is physically similar to the video display 20B shown in FIG. 2B. The video display 20C
   may show a poker hand of five cards 23C and various other player information 21C including a
   paytable for various winning hands, as well as a plurality of player selectable soft buttons 29C.
   The video display 20C may present a poker hand of five cards 23C and various other player
   information 21C including a number of player selectable soft (touch-screen) buttons 29C and a
30 paytable for various winning hands. Although the embodiment illustrated in FIG. 3C shows only
   one hand of poker on the video display 20C, various other video poker machines 1OC may show
                                                     19

   several poker hands (multi-hand poker). Typically, video poker machines 1OC play "draw"
   poker in which a player is dealt a hand of five cards, has the opportunity to hold any combination
   of those five cards, and then draws new cards to replace the discarded ones. All pays are usually
   given for winning combinations resulting from the final hand, although some video poker games
 5 1OC may give bonus credits for certain combinations received on the first hand before the draw.
   In the example shown in FIG. 2C a player has been dealt two aces, a three, a six, and a nine. The
   video poker game 1OC may provide a bonus or payout for the player having been dealt the pair
   of aces, even before the player decides what to discard in the draw. Since pairs, three of a kind,
   etc. are typically needed for wins, a player would likely hold the two aces that have been dealt
 0 and draw three cards to replace the three, six, and nine in the hope of receiving additional aces or
   other cards leading to a winning combination with a higher award amount. After the draw and
   revealing of the final hand, the video poker game 1OC typically awards any credits won to the
   credit meter.
            The player selectable soft buttons 29C appearing on the screen respectively correspond to
 5 each card on the video display 20C. These soft buttons 29C allow players to select specific cards
   on the video display 20C such that the card corresponding to the selected soft button is "held"
   before the draw. Typically, video poker machines 1OC also include physical game buttons 32C
   that correspond to the cards in the hand and may be selected to hold a corresponding card. A
   deal/draw button 33C may also be included to initiate a game after credits have been wagered
 0 (with a bet button 32C, for example) and to draw any cards not held after the first hand is
   displayed.
            Although examples of a spinning reel slot machine 1OA, a video slot machine 1OB, and a
   video poker machine 1OC have been illustrated in FIGs. 2A-2C, gaming machines and various
   other types of gaming devices known in the art are contemplated and are within the scope of the
25 invention.
            FIG. 3 is a block diagram illustrating networked gaming devices according to
   embodiments of the invention. Referring to FIG. 3, multiple electronic gaming devices (EGMs)
   70, 71, 72, 73, 74, and 75 may be coupled to one another and coupled to a remote server 80
   through a network 50. For ease of understanding, gaming devices or EGMs 70, 71, 72, 73, 74,
30 and 75 are generically referred to as EGMs 70-75. The term EGMs 70-75, however, may refer to
   any combination of one or more of EGMs 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, and 75. Additionally, the gaming
                                                     20

   server 80 may be coupled to one or more gaming databases 90. These gaming network 50
   connections may allow multiple gaming devices 70-75 to remain in communication with one
   another during particular gaming modes such as tournament play or remote head-to-head play.
   Although some of the gaming devices 70-75 coupled on the gaming network 50 may resemble
 5 the gaming devices 10, 10A, 1OB, and 10C shown in FIGs. lA-lB and 2A-2C, other coupled
   gaming devices 70-75 may include differently configured gaming devices. For example, the
   gaming devices 70-75 may include traditional slot machines 75 directly coupled to the network
   50, banks of gaming devices 70 coupled to the network 50, banks of gaming devices 70 coupled
   to the network through a bank controller 60, wireless handheld gaming machines 72 and cell
 0 phones 73 coupled to the gaming network 50 through one or more wireless routers or antennas
   61, personal computers 74 coupled to the network 50 through the internet 62, and banks of
   gaming devices 71 coupled to the network through one or more optical connection lines 64.
   Additionally, some of the traditional gaming devices 70, 71, and 75 may include electronic
   gaming tables, multi-station gaming devices, or electronic components operating in conjunction
 5 with non-gaming components, such as automatic card readers, chip readers, and chip counters,
   for example.
            Gaming devices 71 coupled over an optical line 64 may be remote gaming devices in a
   different location or casino. The optical line 64 may be coupled to the gaming network 50
   through an electronic to optical signal converter 63 and may be coupled to the gaming devices 71
 0 through an optical to electronic signal converter 65. The banks of gaming devices 70 coupled to
   the network 50 may be coupled through a bank controller 60 for compatibility purposes, for local
   organization and control, or for signal buffering purposes. The network 50 may include serial or
   parallel signal transmission lines and carry data in accordance with data transfer protocols such
   as Ethernet transmission lines, Rs-232 lines, firewire lines, USB lines, or other communication
25 protocols. Although not shown in FIG. 3, substantially the entire network 50 may be made of
   fiber optic lines or may be a wireless network utilizing a wireless protocol such as IEEE 802.11
   a, b, g, or n, Zigbee, RF protocols, optical transmission, near-field transmission, or the like.
            As mentioned above, each gaming device 70-75 may have an individual processor 40
   (FIG. 1A) and memory 41 to run and control game play on the gaming device 70-75, or some of
30 the gaming devices 70-75 may be terminals that are run by a remote server 80 in a server based
   gaming environment. Server based gaming environments may be advantageous to casinos by
                                                     21

   allowing fast downloading of particular game types or themes based on casino preference or
   player selection. Additionally, tournament based games, linked games, and certain game types,
   such as BINGO or keno may benefit from at least some server 80 based control.
           Thus, in some embodiments, the network 50, server 80, and database 90 may be
 5 dedicated to communications regarding specific game or tournament play. In other
   embodiments, however, the network 50, server 80, and database 90 may be part of a player
   tracking network. For player tracking capabilities, when a player inserts a player tracking card in
   the card reader 46 (FIG. 1A), the player tracking unit 45 sends player identification information
   obtained on the card reader 46 through the MCI 42 over the network 50 to the player tracking
 0 server 80, where the player identification information is compared to player information records
   in the player database 90 to provide the player with information regarding their player account or
   other features at the gaming device 10 where the player is wagering. Additionally, multiple
   databases 90 and/or servers 80 may be present and coupled to one or more networks 50 to
   provide a variety of gaming services, such as both game/tournament data and player tracking
 5 data.
           The various systems described with reference to FIGs 1-3 can be used in a number of
   ways. For instance, the systems can be used to track data about various players. The tracked
   data can be used by the casino to provide additional benefits to players, such as extra bonuses or
   extra benefits such as bonus games and other benefits as described above. These added benefits
 0 further entice the players to play at the casino that provides the benefits.
           As discussed above, in conventional gaming devices, specific outcomes may appear very
   infrequently due to the random nature of conventional game outcome determination techniques.
   Mystery bonuses awarded to a lucky gaming device in a plurality of gaming devices sometime
   use a set range of time, games played, etc. to limit the duration between bonus awards. In these
25 Mystery bonuses, a "lucky coin" or "lucky time slot" is selected as a bonus trigger within the
   specified range. When the trigger condition is satisfied, the bonus is awarded. However, these
   mystery bonuses are limited to play on a group of machines and are related to bonus awards
   beyond the scope of the game paytable. Hence, an underlying gaming device maintains its
   conventional base game outcome determination method and is not guaranteed to ever be awarded
30 the mystery bonus, no matter how long it is active on a gaming floor since there are typically a
   large number of machines eligible for the mystery award.
                                                      22

           Embodiments of this concept are directed to a method of operating a gaming device to
   determine game outcomes by using at least one range for determining a winning game outcome.
   In some embodiments, the gaming device includes a range of numbers associated with each
   winning outcome to ensure that the outcome will hit within the specified range. This method
 5 may be used for each winning outcome for a variety of games including slot machines, video
   poker, keno, video pachinko, etc. The gaming devices may include one or more proximity
   meters associated with these winning outcomes. The ranges for each outcome may be fixed by a
   game designer, they may be flexibly set by a casino operator, or they may be dynamically
   alterable during game play based on triggering game events. Additionally, in some
 0 embodiments, the upper limits of the ranges may be variable and set through a random selection
   process or other selection process.
           The outcome triggering positions within each range may be selected at random, selected
   using a weighted scale, selected in response to specific gaming event or instruction, or chosen
   using another selection technique. Typically, higher paying outcomes will have much larger
 5 ranges than lower paying outcomes so that, on average, they do not hit as often. Even so, this
   structuring of outcomes may make games perform more consistently since all awards (even
   jackpots) will each hit within specified limits. In some gaming machine embodiments, such as
   multi-reel slot games or video poker, winning outcomes including combinations of symbols or
   cards (e.g., BAR BAR BAR) associated with awards are assigned a range from which an
 0 outcome trigger is selected. However, in other gaming machine embodiments, such as a single
   reel game, video pachinko, or a proximity meter only game, each symbol itself may be assigned
   a range from which an outcome trigger is selected. In either type of embodiment, games played
   that are not associated with a winning outcome result in a losing outcome. The display for these
   losing outcomes may still be determined at random or by another selection process to vary the
25 display of a loss.
           In other embodiments, a single range may be used for determining when a generic
   winning game outcome occurs and a weighted table may be used to select which of the possible
   winning game outcomes is used as the displayed winning game outcome. For example, for a
   game with a desired hit frequency of about 20% a game range of 1 through 10 may be used for
30 selecting a winning game outcome. If a winning outcome is selected at game number 3, the
   game may display losing outcomes for the first two games wagered upon and display a winning
                                                     23

   game outcome on the third wagered-on game. A table of possible winning game outcomes may
   be used to determine which of the winning game outcomes is awarded. Usually, game outcomes
   associated with lower paying awards would come up more frequently in the weighted table than
   bonus or jackpot awards. A weighted game range may also be used to extend the possible range
 5 of games between wins, while maintaining a desired hit frequency.
            Selection processes for game outcomes for use on gaming devices will now be discussed.
   Some of these selection processes utilize an outcome selection process described in detail in
   patent application 12/542,587, filed on August 17, 2009, entitled DETERMINATION OF
   GAME RESULT USING RANDOM OVERALL OUTCOME SUMMARY (hereinafter referred
 0 to as "the 12/542,587 application"), the teachings of which are incorporated herein by reference.
   In other embodiments, other selection processes may be utilized to determine game outcomes.
   Some these selection processes may include random outcome selections that utilize an outcome
   tracking process to track specific awards and force a gaming device to provide the specific award
   if it has not been awarded at random within a specified range of games or time of game play. To
 5 further explain some of these selection processes, two examples are explained in detail with
   reference to FIGs. 4A-4E.
            FIG. 4A is an illustrated representation of an exemplary paytable for a gaming device
   according to embodiments of the invention. FIG. 4B is an illustrated representation of
   exemplary reel strips for a gaming device according to embodiments of the invention. FIG. 4C is
 0 an illustrated representation of an exemplary outcome selection chart for a gaming device
   according to embodiments of the invention. FIG. 4D is an illustrated representation of an
   exemplary game outcome table for a gaming device according to embodiments of the invention.
   FIG. 4E is an illustrated representation of another exemplary game outcome table for a gaming
   device according to embodiments of the invention.
25          The exemplary gaming device to be used with the described paytable and reel strips is a
   spinning reel slot machine similar to the ones illustrated in FIGs. 2A or 2B, but with three
   spinning reels instead of five spinning reels and a single payline in the center of the game
   display. Note that the paytable of FIG. 4A is similar in some respects to the paytable shown in
   FIG. 4A of the 12/542,587 application, and that the reel strips of FIG. 4B is identical to the reel
30 strips shown in FIG. 4B of the 12/542,587 application.
                                                     24

            Referring to the paytable shown in FIG. 4A, eight possible winning game outcomes are
   listed in the left column of the paytable under the heading "Outcome." As defined in this
   application, a winning outcome is any outcome that is associated with an award, prize, or other
   incentive given to the player as a result of the outcome. On the other hand, a losing outcome is
 5 an outcome that is not associated with an award, prize, or other incentive. The pay for each
   outcome is located in the adjacent column labeled "Pay." For example, the pay associated with
   the winning outcome of cherries (which is when the CH symbol on each reel appears on the
   payline, i.e., CH CH CH) is 2 credits or two times the number of credits wagered. The next
   outcome of "Any Bars," represents outcomes where three bar-style symbols land on the payline,
 0 but do not all match each other. A single bar outcome, a double bar outcome, a triple bar
   outcome, and a sevens outcome are listed next. Since a bonus symbol "BN" (FIG. 4B) only
   appears on the third gaming reel, a winning bonus outcome would take the form of "X X BN,"
   where the "X" symbol represents any symbol appearing on reels one and two. This bonus
   outcome may trigger a secondary screen bonus, a wheel-spin bonus, a fixed prize bonus, or any
 5 other type of bonus. The credit value of 60 is associated with this bonus outcome and represents
   the average pay of the bonus. Since the bonus may include many different outcomes ranging
   from a small award or even no award, to a very large award, the paytable need only reflect the
   average value of these awards. Finally, jackpot winning outcome pays a top award of 100 credits
   when it appears on a payline.
 0          The "Average Game" column provides a numerical value of the number games on
   average occur between instances of an associated outcome. The "Game Range" column species
   the range of games win which each associated winning outcome must hit. Note that the Average
   Game number and the "Game Range" number are related. In this example, the Average Games
   value is simply median number of the Game Range since the trigger value for the game outcome
25 is selected at random from the numerical value of the Game Range. However, in other
   embodiments, certain portions of the game range may be weighted to encourage an outcome to
   occur in specific portions of the range. In these embodiments, the Average Game value may
   reflect the mean value within the weighted range. For example, if game range associated with
   the Cherries outcome was weighted toward the upper end of the game range, that is, for example,
30 range numbers 18 through 20 were given higher weights than the rest of the numbers in the
   range, the Average Game number may be closer to 16 instead of 12.
                                                     25

           In embodiments where the range of game numbers is alterable by a casino operator or
   dynamically alterable during game play in response to gaming events, either the Average Game
   value or the Game Range value for one or more winning game outcomes may be modified. For
   example, if the Average Game value was altered in the paytable illustrated in FIG. 4A for the
 5 Cherries outcome from 12 to 10, the Game Range value may automatically be updated to a value
   of 20. Similarly, if the Game Range value was altered for the Cherries outcome from 24 to 30,
   the Average Game value may automatically be updated to 15 games.
           The "Hit Frequency" column reflects what percentage of spins will result in a
   corresponding outcome. The hit frequency is simply determined by inverting the "Average
 0 Games" column. For example, the single bar outcome has an Average Game Value of 45 and a
   hit frequency of 2.22%. This means that a player is expected to hit a single bar outcome about
   every 45 games. Thus, the Game Range and Average Game values are important elements in
   determining hit frequency, payback percentage, and volatility of the game. When developing a
   game paytable, a game designer can alter the types of winning outcomes, the pay of the winning
 5 outcomes, and the weight of the paytable weight of an outcome to produce the play
   characteristics of the gaming device. However, once the determination is made about what
   symbol combinations will be winning outcomes and what award each of those winning outcomes
   should pay, the main variable in altering the play characteristics of the gaming device is one of
   the Game Range or Average Game values associated with each outcome. Unlike traditional
 0 games, the games associated with embodiments of this concept allow the game designer to
   control the hit frequency of specific game outcomes by manipulating the paytable weights
   associated with those game outcomes. Additionally, the overall hit frequency of a gaming device
   and the volatility of the gaming device can be quickly shaped using these variables. In the
   example paytable illustrated in FIG. 4A, the overall game hit frequency is 19.22%, which is the
25 sum of the hit frequencies of the winning outcomes.
           The "Contribution" column is achieved by multiplying the value in the "Pay" column
   with the value in the "Hit Freq" column. This contribution relates to the relative or normalized
   weight each outcome has on the payback percentage of the game. The sum of these
   contributions results in the overall payback percentage of the game, which in this example is
30 94.06%. The hold percentage of a gaming device is simply 100% minus the payback percentage.
   Thus, in this example, the hold percentage of a gaming device using this paytable would be
                                                    26

   5.94%. The contribution column provides a method of determining what portion of a paytable is
   directed to a particular outcome.
            Referring to the reel strips illustrated in FIG. 4B, each reel of this three reel gaming
   device includes twenty two reel stop positions. The odd reel stops are not associated with an
 5 illustrated symbol and are referred to as "blanks." The even reel stops are associated with
   particular symbols involved in the game. For example, the illustrated reel strip for "Reel 1"
   includes a cherry symbol at reel stop 2 followed by a bar symbol, a "7," a double bar, a jackpot
   symbol, a triple bar, another bar symbol, another cherry symbol, another double bar, another "7,"
   and another triple bar with blanks interspersed in between each of the illustrated symbols. The
 0 reel strips for "Reel 2" and "Reel 3" are similarly set up although the actual number and order of
   the symbols varies. Note that the bonus symbol "BN" only appears on the third reel.
            In operation, some of the embodiments of this concept work differently than the
   embodiments discussed in the 12/542,587 application. That is, in the 12/542,587 application,
   operation of the gaming device includes obtaining a random number or indicator once the player
 5 has pulled a game handle or pressed a game initiating button, and normalizing this random
   number to match one of the ranges associated with the paytable weights for each outcome. On
   the other hand, some of the embodiments of this concept determine when a specific outcome will
   occur within a specific range of games before the games are played.
            Referring to FIG. 4C, an exemplary selection chart for game outcomes is shown. This
 0 chart shows how many games until a specific winning outcome will occur. For example, for the
   Cherries outcome, a number is selected between 1 and 24, which is the Game Range specified
   for Cherries. The first selection or trigger number is game 3. The first trigger number for an
   Any Bars outcome is game 2. The first trigger numbers for the other winning outcomes are
   shown in the first selection column. Second through tenth selection colunms are also shown in
25 the Selection Chart. These outcomes may be selected before the first selection is realized, or the
   associated trigger number for each of these selections may not take place until after the
   preceding trigger number has been reached and the outcome awarded.
            Referring to FIG. 4D, an exemplary game outcome table is shown that corresponds to the
   selection chart of FIG. 4C. As can be seen in the selection chart and outcome table, no outcome
30 is specified for the first game. Hence a generic losing outcome is indicated in the first game
   position. When a player places a wager on the gaming device that corresponds to this first game,
                                                        27

   the player will receive a losing game outcome. Since a generic losing outcome is indicated, the
   gaming device may use a process similar to the ones described in the 12/542,587 application to
   select an actual losing combination of symbols or cards to display. As a brief review, some of
   these processes may include selecting an outcome to display by a random or other selection
 5 process and ensuring that the selected outcome does not have any awards associated with it.
   FIG. 8 of the 12/542,587 application provides one example flow chart of this process.
            To keep track of the game number in the game outcome table, a counter may be used to
   indicate a current game within the table. In other words, the counter may keep track of a game
   number count for the gaming device to ensure that a proper game outcome from the game
 0 outcome table is used as a current game outcome. The counter may simply be a dedicated
   register or portion of memory that is incremented with each game, or it may be an integrated
   address pointer embedded in the firmware of the gaming device or other equivalent mechanism.
   As each game progresses, the counter is incremented to indicated a next game number. In some
   embodiments, the counter is incremented as a result of a game initiating input, in which case the
 5 new game outcome associated with the game number indicated by the counter after being
   incremented will be the outcome used for the game. In other embodiments, the counter is
   incremented after a game has been played, in which case the current game outcome associated
   with the game number indicated by the counter at the time of the game initiation input is
   received will be the outcome used for the game.
 0          When a player places a wager on a game corresponding to the second game number in
   the game outcome table, the gaming device displays an "Any Bars" winning outcome on the
   game display payline because the game outcome table indicates that this winning outcome is
   associated with the second game number. After this winning outcome is displayed, the player is
   awarded three times their wager (e.g., 3 credits on a 1 credit bet). Referring back to the selection
25 chart in FIG. 4C, in embodiments where entries in the selection chart are not completed until
   after a preceding selection has been reached, a second selection for the Any Bars winning
   outcome would be determined before the next game was initiated. Here, for example, the second
   game-trigger number for the Any Bars outcome within the game range of 1 to 30 ends up being
   28. As the counter already indicates that a game number count is on game number two, the
30 trigger number of 28 is added to the game number count of two so that the next occurrence of the
   Any Bars outcome will be at game number 30, as shown in FIG. 4D. In other embodiments,
                                                    28

   where multiple outcome selections are made at a given time, the second trigger number for the
   Any Bars outcome may have already been selected as 28 and inputted into the game outcome
   table at game number 30.
           As an Any Bars outcome is indicated as a winning outcome to this second game, the
 5 gaming device needs to select a proper symbol combination on the game payline to result in this
   indicated game outcome. The gaming device may use a process similar to the ones described in
   the 12/542,587 application to select a winning combination of symbols or cards to display as the
   winning outcome. As a brief review, some of these processes may include identifying reel
   positions or cards associated with the winning outcome, selecting among the identified reel
 0 positions or cards to determine ones to use in the displayed outcome, selecting any remaining
   reel positions or cards to complete the display, and ensuring that these remaining selections do
   not affect the game outcome. FIG. 7 of the 12/542,587 application provides one example flow
   chart of this process.
           The next game that is wagered on by a player, game number 3, is associated with a
 5 winning Cherries outcome as shown in the game outcome table illustrated in FIG. 4D. The
   display and awarding of this winning outcome may be similar to the winning Any Bars outcome
   from game number two. Additionally, in embodiments where only a single outcome occurrence
   is predetermined at any given time, a second trigger number may be selected for the selection
   table. As shown in FIG. 4C, the selection of the trigger number within the specified range of 1
 0 through 24 is 14. As shown in the outcome table, this trigger number selection results in the next
   Cherries outcome being scheduled for game number 17.
           Games 4 through 16 do not have winning game outcomes. Hence, wagers placed on
   these games will result in losing outcomes. In some embodiments, losses may be only briefly
   displayed while wins are displayed for a longer period of time as described in co-pending US
25 patent application 12/204,633, filed September 4,2008, entitled GAMING DEVICE HAVING
   VARIABLE SPEED OF PLAY, the teachings of which are incorporated herein by reference.
   That is, in these embodiments the losses in games 4 through 16 may be shown briefly if at all
   while another wager is automatically deducted from the credit meter and subsequent game is
   played without further player input. Some of these embodiments may halt the automatic
30 rewagering and game reinitiation when a winning game outcome is reached.
                                                     29

           This series of operational steps in this example embodiments continue through the other
   indicated games in the game outcome table. Notice, however, that game number 67 has both a
   Double Bars outcome and a Single Bars outcome scheduled for the same game number. This has
   occurred since a first trigger number for the Double Bars outcome was selected to be associated
 5 with the  6 7 th game while the second trigger number for the Single Bars outcome of 14 was
   chosen after a first trigger number of 53 was selected. Hence, the second occurrence of the
   Single Bars outcome is also associated with the    6 7 th game. Various embodiments of this concept
   handle this situation in different manners.
           In one set of embodiments, another trigger number may be selected for the second
 0 selection of the Single Bars outcome. That is, the gaming device may inquire whether a selected
   trigger number attempts to associated a corresponding winning game outcome with a game
   number that already has a winning game outcome associated with it. If this inquiry determines
   that a winning game outcome is already associated with the game number, the gaming device
   may select another trigger number within the specified game range until the inquiry determines
 5 that the selected trigger number does associate a winning game outcome with a game number
   that already has an associated winning game outcome. These embodiments ensure that only one
   winning game outcome will occur during a game being played on the gaming device. In other
   sets of embodiments, the gaming device does not select a subsequent trigger number and takes
   one of a variety of actions to deal with this positional "tie" for the winning game outcomes.
 0 These actions of this set of embodiments are discussed in more detail below with reference to
   FIGs. 9A, 9B, and 9C. Briefly, the gaming device may award both prizes during a game
   corresponding to the game number with the positional tie, the gaming device may only display
   the larger valued award for a game corresponding to the game number with the positional tie, or
   the gaming device may "push" one of the winning game outcomes to a future game number.
25         FIG. 4D illustrates an embodiment where each outcome is entered into a single game
   outcome table. A counter proceeds through the single game outcome table to determine a current
   game outcome in response to a wager. FIG. 4E, on the other hand, illustrates an embodiment
   where a table and counter are implemented for each type of winning game outcome. Referring
   to FIG. 4E, a game outcome table is shown for each of the winning game outcomes of Cherries,
30 Any Bars, Single Bars, Double Bars, Triple Bars, Sevens, the Bonus, or the Jackpot. Hence,
   eight outcome tables are present in this embodiment. Further, a counter is used for each of these
                                                      30

   game outcomes to determine whether that winning game outcome should be displayed and
   awarded during a current game. These counters are shown in FIG. 4E as the highlighted boxes
   over the game results. Here, the game outcome table for each winning game outcome is set to
   possible range of the associated winning game outcome. For example, the game outcome table
 5 for the Cherries outcome is set to 24 since the Cherries outcome will hit within the range of 1 to
   24 games. The Double Bars game outcome table, on the other hand, is set to 180 (not
   completely shown in FIG. 4E for the sake of brevity).
           Here a trigger number for the next occurrence of each winning outcome is selected and
   entered into each game outcome table. For example, the trigger number for the next Cherries
 0 outcome was selected as game 17, while the next winning Double Bars outcome was selected as
   game 6. During a game, each game counter is incremented to a next game number in the game
   outcome table. Thus, for example, after a game is initiated, the game counter for the Cherries
   outcome may be incremented from game number 13 to game number 14, and the game counter
   for the Any Bars outcome may be incremented from game number 10 to game number 11, etc.
 5 Since game number 11 for the Any Bars outcome is associated with a winning occurrence of the
   Any Bars outcome, the gaming device will display an Any Bars winning game outcome to the
   player and award the player with three times their credit wager. After awarding the player with
   this winning outcome, the gaming device will then select another triggering value for the Any
   Bars outcome and reset the counter associated with the Any Bars outcome to zero. Any entries
 0 between the triggering value and the initial game outcome table value may be indicated as a
   generic losing outcome in the game outcome table.
           Hence, in operation, the gaming device increments each of the counters associated with
   the winning game outcomes in the game outcome table and determines whether any of the
   incremented counters indicates a winning game outcome. If more than one winning game
25 outcome is indicated by the counters during a game, the gaming device may use one of the
   positional tie methods mentioned above and discussed below with respect to FIGs. 9A, 9B, and
   9C.
           The process of setting up the game outcome table of FIGs. 4D or 4E and/or selection
   chart of FIG. 4C may be done one or more times during the operation of the gaming device. In
30 one example, a game outcome table is initiated when it is placed on a gaming floor and continues
   to operate by selecting future game outcomes until it is removed from the game floor. In other
                                                    31

   examples, the game outcome table may be reset by casino personnel or be reset automatically at
   a periodic interval, such as at a nightly or weekly reset time. In yet other examples, the game
   outcome table may be reset between players playing the gaming device. In some embodiments,
   the game outcome table may be associated with a particular identified player such that the game
 5 outcome table for a type of gaming device is saved in a player's account associated with the
   player, and retrieved and implemented on a gaming device matching the gaming device type
   associated with the game outcome table when a player identifies herself at that matching gaming
   device.
           As discussed above, the Game Ranges may be set in a paytable illustrated in FIG. 4A in a
 0 variety of manners. Although the embodiment discussed above uses preselected game ranges to
   provide a boundary within which a game outcome trigger number is selected, this range may be
   altered for one or more of the winning game outcomes in response to an instruction by a casino
   operator or in response to a gaming event. For instance, certain gaming events on the gaming
   device may trigger the selection of a smaller or larger range for at least one type of gaming
 5 outcome. In one example, a gaming device may be configured to lower the range for a Cherries
   game outcome from at least once every 24 games to at least once every 20 games for players
   who have signed up for a player's account within the last 24 hours. In another example, the
   gaming device may provide a Cherries award if no winning outcome has been reached in twenty
   consecutive games. In this example, the gaming device may automatically reset the Game Range
 0 Value of the Cherries outcome to a range of 1 to 1 and "select" a number between 1 and 1.
   Obviously this technique has the effect of directing the gaming device to award a specific game
   outcome. In practice this Cherries outcome is the result of a device instruction rather than a
   result associated with a randomly obtained indicator. Other circumstances exist in which a
   Game Range may be altered to create a desired effect on the gaming experience of a player.
25         The trigger number selected in the Game Ranges may be selected using a random number
   generator to generate a random decimal value between zero and 1. This number would be
   normalized to the range parameters by multiplying the random decimal value by the upper limit
   of the range minus one, adding one, and rounding to the nearest integer number. For example,
   for the Cherries outcome, which has a specified range of 1 to 24, a normalized random trigger
30 value would be assigned a value between 1 and 24. For example, if the random number was
                                                     32

   0.56879845, the normalized random number would be 13.08236435, or 14.08236435 with one
   added to it, resulting in a winning game triggering number of 14.
            The above description focuses on a spinning reel gaming device having a single payline.
   However, other embodiments of this concept are adapted to work with multi-line gaming
 5 devices. One of the significant issues in accommodating multi-line gaming devices is that a
   player playing multiple pay lines is essentially placing a wager on each of the paylines and an
   outcome determined on one payline may not correspond to the symbols needed for another
   outcome on another played payline. When using a table of gaming outcomes to determine a
   game outcome for a current multi-line game there are many techniques available to determine
 0 which outcomes to use and/or display. One exemplary technique simply uses different Game
   Ranges based on the number of lines that are being played. For example, a gaming device may
   use one set of game ranges if the player is only playing one payline of a multi-line gaming
   device, and use a second set of game ranges if the player is playing 5 lines on the gaming device.
            One issue to address in this technique is if and how to change a currently selected trigger
 5 number and/or range when a player changes between playing one payline and multiple paylines.
   In some embodiments, the ranges for all of the outcomes may be reset and new trigger numbers
   may be selected. For winning game outcomes with trigger numbers that were scheduled to fall
   within the new range size for each outcome, the same trigger numbers may be kept and
   transferred over to the new ranges. Alternatively, a new trigger number may be selected within
 0 the new range and lower game number between the new trigger number and the old trigger
   number may be used as the trigger number associated with the winning game outcome for the
   next game or series of games. Going the other way, that is when a player goes from playing
   multiple lines to a single payline or a lower number of played paylines, the gaming device may
   increase the game range size for at least one of the game outcomes. New trigger numbers for the
25 winning game outcomes may be determined and averaged with the old trigger numbers to
   prevent a player from simply switching between single line and multi-line play to improve their
   chances of receiving a winning game outcome sooner.
            Instead of changing the Game Ranges for the winning outcomes, other embodiments may
   simply cover multiple "chunks" of the game outcome table in a single multi-line game. For
30 example, if a player was playing all five paylines of a five line game using the game output table
   illustrated in FIG. 4D, the first five game numbers would be used to determine if any wins were
                                                      33

   awarded to the player based on their wager. Here, since game numbers 2 and 3 are associated
   with winning outcomes, the gaming device must determine if and how to award and/or display
   these winning games outcomes. To accomplish this, the gaming device may use a technique
   similar to the multi-line outcome determination and display techniques discussed in the
 5 12/542,587 application. In particular, techniques to handle multi-line games are discussed with
   respect to FIGs. 5A-5C and 9-11. These techniques in the 12/542,587 application include the
   step of selecting a game outcome for the next line played (see e.g., FIGs. 9 and 10) or simply
   selecting a single game outcome (see e.g., FIG. 11). Using the game outcome tables illustrated
   in FIGs. 4D and 4E of the present application, the game selection process would simply use the
 0 incrementing game counter to "select" the next game outcome from the game outcome tables.
           For illustration purposes use of the game outcome table shown in FIG. 4D will be
   discussed for a five line game where all five paylines are being played using some of the
   exemplary techniques for handling multi-ling games discussed in the 12/542,587 application.
   For the technique relating to FIG. 9 in the 12/542,587 application, the winning outcomes of game
 5 numbers 1 through 5 are analyzed. Since game numbers 2 and 3 are associated with winning
   game outcomes, these winning game outcomes would be stored in memory, display
   characteristics would be chosen for them, and they would be displayed in multiple steps to the
   player. For the technique relating to FIG. 10 in the 12/542,587 application, the winning
   outcomes of game numbers 1 through 5 are again analyzed. However, since only the highest
 0 paying winning outcome will be awarded to the player, the player will only be awarded the Any
   Bars outcome and not the Cherries outcome since the Any Bars outcome has a higher paying
   award associated with it. For the technique relating to FIG. 11 in the 12/542,587 application, a
   single outcome is selected from game numbers 1 through 5 to be used as the game outcome.
   This may include randomly selecting one of the game numbers 1 through 5 and using the game
25 outcome from the game outcome table associated with the selected game number as the game
   outcome. Although three of the techniques from the 12/542,587 application are discussed,
   various other techniques may be used and are contemplated by this concept.
           The multi-line selection methods described above focus on gaming devices that may have
   fixed reel strips. That is, reel strips that correspond to each reel of the game device and do not
30 change between games. However, for gaming devices that use individual reel strips for each
   symbol position on a gaming display ("super spin" games) or for gaming devices that use
                                                       34

   flexible reel strips, alternative multi-line techniques may be available. Super spin games and
   flexible reel strip games have the ability to select a symbol for every displayed symbol position
   on a gaming display. Thus, more detailed selection processes may be used in choosing the
   symbols to display on the screen. In one example, a multi-line game may select an outcome for
 5 each played line where the game locks in winning outcome symbol positions for paylines that are
   determined earlier. That is, if a player is playing a five line game (FIG. 2B) and a three bar
   winning outcome is selected on the first payline (the horizontal middle payline), the first three
   symbols on that payline are "locked in" with bar outcomes. If the outcomes on the fourth or fifth
   payline are selected such that they require a symbol different than a bar symbol in the second
 0 position on the payline (where the left-most cherry is in FIB. 2B), the gaming device may select
   another outcome until an outcome is compatible with the bar symbol or employ one of the multi
   line techniques discussed above. Alternatively, once a winning outcome is "locked in," the
   remaining outcomes on other paylines may be selected from a subset of the possible outcomes
   that correspond to the previously selected locked-in outcome. The symbols on these dynamically
 5 flexible reel strips may be determined and arranged prior to the spinning of the reels so that the
   symbol arrangements on the reel strips do not appear to get altered as the reel strips are slowing
   down and stopping.
           As discussed above, this concept is not limited only to slot machine gaming devices.
   Rather, this outcome determination concept can be used with a variety of different gaming
 0 device types or themes. For example, this concept may be used with keno, video blackjack,
   video poker, etc. In a video poker example, winning poker hands with associated game ranges
   would be implemented in a paytable and a selection chart and game outcome tables would be
   created for game outcomes. FIG. 12 in the 12/542,587 application discusses a method of
   selecting and showing an outcome for a video poker gaming device that may also be used to
25 display a video poker game outcome indicated by a counter in a game outcome table according
   to embodiments of this concept.
           FIG. 5 is a detail diagram of a gaming device according to embodiments of the invention.
           Referring to FIG. 5, a game device 100 may include a player interface panel 130 having
   one or more game buttons 132 and a game initiating button 133, and include a game display 120
30 showing a plurality of game reels 122 on which game symbols 123 are shown. One or more
   game paylines 124 may also be shown on the game display 120 to illustrate which symbol
                                                       35

   combination arrangements will result in a winning game outcome. The game device also
   includes a win proximity indicator 121. In the embodiment shown in FIG. 5, the win proximity
   indicator 121 is a flashing sign on the gaming display 121. The win proximity indicator may be
   presented when a winning game outcome will be reached in the next few games. Embodiments
 5 of this concept are especially well suited to the use of a win proximity indicator because the next
   winning game outcome can be easily determined by analyzing the game outcome tables that
   determine the next string of game outcomes. For example, referring to FIG. 4D, if a current
   game number was game 15, the win proximity indicator 121 may be activated since a winning
   game outcome will be awarded in two more games. This win proximity indicator may generate
 0 player excitement and prolong play on the gaming device because the player knows that a win is
   imminent when the win proximity meter is activated.
           The win proximity indicator may be presented in different manners depending on the
   type of winning game outcome that is imminent. For example, if a relatively low paying
   winning game outcome is near, the win proximity indicator may slowly flash yellow. The flash
 5 rate may increase as the winning game outcome becomes closer. However, if a relatively large
   paying winning game outcome is near, the win proximity indicator may rapidly flash red and
   have an accompanying audible signal associated with it. The flashing and audio signal may
   intensify as the winning game outcome becomes closer. The player may also activate a game
   button 132 or soft button 129 to remove the flashing or sound associated with the win proximity
 0 indicator so it does not become overly annoying to players sensitive to flashing lights and/or loud
   sounds. In another embodiment, the indication that a win is growing closer could be the same
   for all wins, regardless of magnitude, if it is desirable to not allow the player to know what size
   of win is near.
           In yet another embodiment, the indication that a win is near may begin with the same or
25 substantially similar pattern and continue to change as a winning outcome becomes closer and
   the award associated with the winning outcome grows. For example, in two separate gaming
   instances, a winning outcome with an award amount of 5 credits and a winning outcome with an
   award amount of 50 credits may each trigger a win proximity indicator 121 to appear and slowly
   begin to flash at time TO. At time T1, the win proximity indicator 121 for each of the two
30 instances may begin to flash slightly more rapidly. At time T2, the gaming device 100 may
   display the winning outcome with the award amount of 5 credits in one instance, and may
                                                      36

   increase the flash-rate of the win proximity indicator 121 in the other winning outcome instance.
   The gaming device 100 may then display the winning outcome with the award amount of 50
   credits at time T3. Note that when the win proximity indicator 121 first appears, the player does
   not know if it is indicating that a relatively small award is near or a relatively large award is near
 5 because the indicator pattern is substantially the same in both instances. However, as the games
   progress, the smaller win is awarded relatively close to appearance of the win proximity
   indicator 121 while the larger win takes a few more games to reach. Thus, for small wins, the
   win proximity indicator 121 does not build and build on itself only to provide a small award,
   which may be a slight disappointment to the player. On the other hand, larger wins may take
 0 longer to reach, thereby building player anticipation. From the player's perspective, each game
   played that does not result in a win after the win proximity indicator 121 appears means that the
   award is potentially larger. The actually time or number of games between triggering the win
   proximity indicator 121 and displaying the winning outcome may be chosen from weighted
   ranges so that a player is never completely sure what award value corresponds to a particular
 5 delay time between activation of the indicator and display of the winning outcome.
            FIG. 6 is a detail diagram of another gaming device according to embodiments of the
   invention.
            Referring to FIG. 6, the gaming device 200 again includes a player interface panel 230
   having one or more game buttons 232 and a game initiating device 233. The gaming device 200
 0 also includes a game display 220 having a credit meter 227. FIG. 6 actually illustrates two
   different gaming device 200 embodiments. The first embodiment illustrated by FIG. 6 is a
   second screen informational screen that can be reached by a player by pressing one of the soft
   buttons 229 on the game display 220 to go from a game screen (such as the one shown in FIG. 5)
   to this outcome proximity screen that shows a win proximity meter 222 for each winning game
25 outcome. Here, each win proximity meter 222 includes a current proximity level 223 and an
   indication of when the last occurrence 224 of the winning game outcome occurred relative to the
   proximity meter 222. Additionally, an outcome label 228 may be included near each win
   proximity meter 222 to identify which game outcome is associated with each win proximity
   meter 222. This embodiment may be especially suited to embodiments that utilize an outcome
30 table for each winning game outcome, such as the embodiments shown in FIG. 4E. Although
   this embodiment is shown as a second screen display, these proximity meters may be shown
                                                      37

   along with a game screen on the game display 220 or shown on a secondary display 25 (FIG.
   1A) so that a player does not have to switch been the game screen and this second screen to see
   how the win proximity meters 222 are changing as a result of game play.
            The second embodiment illustrated by FIG. 6 is a gaming device 200 that only displays
 5 the win proximity meters 222 as the game theme (e.g., METER FEVER). Here, the player is
   wagering on the movement of the win proximity meters 222. There is no spinning reels or cards
   to play. Rather, the player is wagering that the next game will bring a win from one or more of
   the meters 222. The win proximity meters 222 associated with the lower paying awards (e.g.,
   Cherries, Any Bars, etc.) may move fairly quickly between games since, for example, the
 0 Cherries outcome hits on average once every 12 games. The meters associated with the higher
   paying outcomes may, on the other hand, move fairly slowly. This gives a player an incentive to
   keep playing the gaming device 200 when one of the meters 222 associated with a higher paying
   award starts getting near the top of the meter range. For example, a player may notice that the
   win proximity meter associated with the Triple Bars outcome is due to hit relatively soon. A win
 5 proximity indicator 221 may be used in conjunction with the win proximity meters 222 to
   indicate that a win on one of the meters is imminent. For these gaming devices, the win
   proximity indicators 121 may be hidden or return to a generic screen when a player is not
   playing the gaming machine to prevent players from "shopping" for a favorable looking (i.e.,
   mostly filled) proximity meter on a gaming device.
 0          FIG. 7 is a flow diagram of a method of determining a game outcome on a gaming device
   according to embodiments of the invention.
            Referring to FIG. 7, an example flow 300 begins by receiving a wager and game
   initiating input in process (310). In process (312), the gaming device increments the at least one
   game counter associated with the game outcome table. In embodiments that utilize a single
25 outcome table combining all of the winning outcomes (FIG. 4D), a single counter may be
   incremented between game numbers. In embodiments that utilize separate game outcome tables
   for each winning outcome (FIG. 4E), each of the counters associated with the separate game
   outcome tables may be incremented. As discussed above, although the process of incrementing
   the at least one game counter (312) is shown immediately after receiving the game initiating
30 input in FIG. 7, this process can be implemented at other times within a game cycle in other
   embodiments.
                                                     38

            The gaming device then identifies a game outcome associated with a game number
   indicated by the game counter in process (314). In process (316) the gaming device determines
   whether the identified game outcome is a winning outcome. If the identified game outcome is
   not a winning game outcome, the gaming device may select a losing outcome and display this
 5 losing outcome to the player in process (324) as discussed above. If the identified game outcome
   is a winning game outcome, the gaming device selects display characteristics of the winning
   outcome in process (318) and displays the winning outcome in process (320) as discussed above.
   When the game outcome is determined to be a winning game outcome in process (316), the
   gaming device also may select a next occurrence of the outcome-type associated with the
 0 winning outcome in process (322). That is, in embodiments where only next occurrence of a
   winning outcome is determined, when that trigger number of the winning outcome is reached, a
   new trigger number is selected in process (322) for that outcome and implemented in the game
   outcome table. After the game outcome has been displayed to the player in either of process
   (324) or (320), the gaming device may then wait for further player input in process (326).
 5          FIGs. 8A and 8B are flow diagrams of methods of setting an outcome trigger number on
   a gaming device according to embodiments of the invention.
            Referring to FIG. 8A, flow 330 is directed to embodiments where a single game outcome
   table is used, such as in FIG. 4D. Here, flow 330 begins by determining the current game count
   number in process (332). A trigger number is selected for the next occurrence of a winning
 0 outcome in process (334). Afterwards, an awarding game number in the game outcome table is
   set by combining the determined game count number and the selected trigger number in process
   (336).
            Referring to FIG. 8B, flow 340 is directed to embodiments where each of the counters is
   associated with separate game outcome tables. Here, flow 340 begins by identifying the winning
25 game outcome and outcome table for which to select a new trigger number in process (342).
   Once the game outcome table has been identified, the game counter is reset for that game
   outcome table in process (344) and a new trigger number is selected for the identified game
   outcome table in process (346).
            FIGs. 9A, 9B, and 9C are flow diagrams of methods of operating a gaming device when
30 multiple winning game outcomes are indicated for a single game. FIG. 9A is directed to
   embodiments where each of the multiple winning game outcomes is displayed during the game.
                                                     39

   FIG. 9B is directed to displaying only the winning game outcome with the largest associated
   award. FIG. 9C is directed to displaying a single winning game outcome during the triggering
   game and pushing the other winning game outcomes to later games.
           Referring to FIG. 9A, flow 350 begins when the gaming device determines that two or
 5 more winning game outcomes are associated with a current game number in process (352).
   Thereafter, the gaming device sequences the display order of the winning game outcomes in
   process (354). Here, the gaming device may sequence the winning game outcomes such that
   they are displayed in order of smallest associated award to largest associated award. This
   sequencing may generate additional player anticipation and excitement as the player may think
 0 that the game is over after a first winning outcome is displayed only to have another game
   outcome be displayed with an even higher award value. Other embodiments may utilize
   different criteria to sequence the winning outcomes. For example, a random order may be used
   in the sequence.
           The gaming device displays the first game outcome of the sequence in process (356) and
 5 distributes an award associated with the winning game outcome to the player in process (358). It
   is then determined if the last outcome of the sequence has been reached in process (360). If the
   last winning game outcome has not been reached, the gaming device displays the next winning
   game outcome in process (356) and distributes an associated award in process (358). This cycle
   is repeated until each of the game outcomes in the sequence been displayed. When process (360)
 0 determines that the last winning game outcome in the sequence has been displayed, flow 350
   may conclude by waiting for further player input in process (362).
           Referring to FIG. 9B, flow 370 begins when the gaming device determines that two or
   more winning game outcomes are associated with a current game number in process (352).
   Thereafter, the gaming device determines which of the multiple winning game outcomes has the
25 largest associated award in process (374). When the winning game outcome with the largest
   associated award is determined, that winning game outcome is displayed to the player in process
   (376) and the associated award is distributed to the player in process (378). Flow 370 then
   concludes by waiting for further player input in process (379).
           Referring to FIG. 9C, flow 380 begins when the gaming device determines that two or
30 more winning game outcomes are associated with a current game number in process (352).
   Thereafter, the gaming device sequences the display order of the winning game outcomes in
                                                    40

   process (384). Here, the gaming device may again sequence the winning game outcomes such
   that they are displayed in order of smallest associated award to largest associated award, or
   sequence them in a random order. In process (386), the gaming device inserts a predetermined
   delay, if any, between the display timing of the winning game outcomes. In other words, the
 5 gaming device pushes the later winning game outcomes in the sequence to later games that are
   not associated with a winning game outcome. Here, the first winning game outcome is displayed
   in process (388) and an associated award is distributed to the player in process (390). Process
   (392) determines if the last winning game outcome in the sequence has been reached. If is has,
   flow 380 concludes by waiting for further player input in process (399). However, when process
 0 (392) determines that the last winning game outcome has yet to be reached, the gaming device
   pauses until the next game has been initiated in process (394). Depending on the type of
   embodiment, the next game may be initiated when the player has placed another wager and
   activated a game initiating input device. Alternatively, the next game may be automatically
   initiated by the gaming device.
 5          When the next game has been initiated, the gaming device determines if the inserted
   delay has been met in process (396). In some embodiments, the next winning game outcome
   may be pushed to the next game number, in which case there would not be an inserted delay
   beyond waiting for the next game to be initiated. In other embodiments, however, a delay of one
   or more games may be specified to spread the occurrence of the winning game outcome over a
 0 larger range of games. In these embodiments, processes (394) and (396) would cycle until the
   predetermined delay was met. When the delay is met in process (396), the gaming device
   determines if the current game number is already associated with another winning game outcome
   in process (398). This process ensures that one of the multiple winning outcomes is not pushed
   to a game number that already has a winning outcome associated with it. Thus, if it is
25 determined that the current game number does not have a winning game outcome associated with
   it, flow 380 repeats processes (388) and (390) to display the next winning game outcome in the
   sequence and distribute an associated award to the player. This process may be repeated until
   each of the winning game outcomes is displayed. If, however, it is determined in process (398)
   that the current game number is associated with a winning game outcome, flow 380 returns to
30 process (384) to again sequence the display order of the remaining winning game outcomes and
   the new winning game outcome associated with the current game number. Flow 380 would then
                                                    41

   repeat the processes of inserting delays if any (386), displaying the next winning game outcome
   in the new sequence (388), and distributing an associated award to the player (390). This cycle
   is repeated until each of the winning game outcomes in the new sequence is displayed.
           Although not shown in a flow diagram, other embodiments avoid the issue of having two
 5 awards tied to a single game number by incrementing separate counters for each possible
   winning game outcome one at a time. If the first incremented counter results in a winning game
   outcome being associated with a game number, no other counters are incremented. Rather, the
   other counters remain frozen, thus assuring that two wins will not occur. By setting the
   incrementation rules of the counters in such a manner, the order of multiple awards can be
 0 managed. That is, if the counters are incremented from the largest-valued winning game
   outcome to the smallest-valued winning game outcome, the highest paying award would be
   given first and the smaller award or awards would be given over the next series of games.
   Alternatively, if the counters are incremented from the smallest-valued winning game outcome
   to the largest-valued winning game outcome, the smallest paying award would be given first and
 5 additional higher paying awards would be distributed in the following series of games. This
   process has an effect on the hit frequencies of the winning game outcomes and on the theoretical
   payback of the gaming device. However, these effects can be reduced by testing the remaining
   counters after one counter has been determined to have reached a winning outcome triggering
   number and incrementing the other counters that are not associated with a winning outcome
 0 triggering number. Additionally, the game ranges may be slightly altered (either dynamically or
   by design pre-game play) for these embodiments to account for the remaining effect of these
   incrementation rules.
            Some embodiments of the invention have been described above, and in addition, some
   specific details are shown for purposes of illustrating the inventive principles. However,
25 numerous other arrangements may be devised in accordance with the inventive principles of this
   patent disclosure. Further, well known processes have not been described in detail in order not
   to obscure the invention. Thus, while the invention is described in conjunction with the specific
   embodiments illustrated in the drawings, it is not limited to these embodiments or drawings.
   Rather, the invention is intended to cover alternatives, modifications, and equivalents that come
30 within the scope and spirit of the inventive principles set out in the appended claims.
                                                     42

      Modifications and variations such as would be apparent to a person skilled in the art are
deemed to be within the scope of the present invention.
                                                43

   The claims defining the invention are as follows:
            1.     A method of operating a gaming device, the method comprising:
           receiving a game initiating input;
 5         incrementing a game counter to indicate an entry in a table of game outcomes;
           displaying the indicated game outcome on the gaming device when the indicated game
   outcome is a winning outcome; and
           selecting and displaying an outcome when the indicated game outcome is a losing
   outcome.
 0
           2.      The method of claim 1, wherein displaying the indicated game outcome on the
   gaming device when the indicated game outcome is a winning outcome includes:
           selecting display characteristics for the winning outcome; and
           displaying the winning outcome using the selected display characteristics.
 5
           3.      The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein when the indicated game outcome includes
   first and second winning outcomes:
           displaying the first winning outcome; and
           thereafter automatically displaying the second winning outcome.
 0
           4.      The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein when the indicated game
   outcome includes first and second winning outcomes:
           determining which of the first and second winning outcomes is associated with a larger
   award; and
25         displaying the determined outcome with the larger associated award.
           5.      The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein when the indicated game
   outcome includes first and second winning outcomes:
           displaying the first winning outcome;
30         receiving another game initiating input; and
           thereafter displaying the second winning outcome.
                                                     44

           6.      A method of operating a gaming device, the method comprising:
           presenting a player with a particular type of winning game outcome;
           selecting a next occurrence of the particular type of winning game outcome from a range
 5 of numbers associated with the particular type of winning game outcome;
           entering the selected next occurrence of the particular type of winning game outcome in a
   table of game outcomes;
           incrementing a game counter that indicates a current game outcome in the table of game
   outcomes in response to wagers placed on the gaming device; and
 0         presenting the player with the particular type of winning game outcome when the game
   counter indicates the next occurrence of the particular type of winning game outcome in a table
   of game outcomes.
           7.      The method of claim 6, wherein selecting a next occurrence of the particular type
 5 of winning game outcome includes:
           randomly selecting a number within the range of numbers associated with the particular
   type of winning game outcome; and
           combining the randomly selected number with a current value of the game counter.
 0         8.      The method of claim 6 or 7, wherein entering the selected next occurrence of the
   particular type of winning game outcome in a table of game outcomes includes associating next
   occurrence of the particular type of winning game outcome with a game number in the table of
   game outcomes.
25         9.      The method of any one of claims 6 to 8, wherein incrementing a game counter
   includes sequentially moving between game numbers associated with game outcomes in the table
   of game outcomes.
           10.     The method of claim 18, wherein presenting the player with the particular type of
30 winning game outcome when the game counter indicates the next occurrence of the particular
   type of winning game outcome in a table of game outcomes includes displaying a winning game
                                                     45

   outcome and providing an award corresponding to the winning game outcome when the game
   counter indicates the game number associated with the next occurrence of the particular type of
   winning game outcome.
 5         11.     A game device comprising:
           a player interface panel including at least one game initiation device;
           a memory to store a table of sequential game outcomes;
           a processor configured to increment a game counter that indicates at least one of the
   sequential game outcomes and further configured to determine display parameters of each
 0 indicated game outcome; and
           a game display to show each indicated game outcome having the determined display
   parameters.
           12.     The gaming device of claim 11, wherein the processor is configured to determine
 5 the display parameters of a game outcome associated with an award by selecting reel stops
   corresponding to the game outcome.
           13.     The gaming device of claim 11, wherein the processor is configured to determine
   the display parameters of a losing game outcome by selecting reel stops and confirming that the
 0 selected reel stops do not result in a winning outcome.
           14.     The gaming device of claim 11, wherein the processor is configured to determine
   the display parameters of a game outcome associated with an award by selecting cards
   corresponding to the game outcome.
25
           15.     The gaming device of claim 14, wherein the processor is further configured to
   rearrange an order of the selected cards and confirm that the rearranged order will result in the
   game outcome using a best strategy.
                                                     46

           16.     The gaming device of claim 11, wherein the processor is configured to determine
   the display parameters of a losing game outcome by selecting cards and confirming that the
   selected cards do not result in a winning outcome when using a best strategy.
 5         17.     The gaming device of any one of claims 11 to 16, wherein the table of sequential
   game outcomes identifies whether each stored game outcome is one of a plurality of possible
   winning game outcomes or a generic losing outcome.
           18.     The gaming device of claim 17, wherein each of the plurality of possible winning
 0 outcomes has a corresponding range within which it will appear in the stored table of sequential
   game outcomes.
           19.     The gaming device of claim 18, wherein the processor is further configured to
   select a number within a corresponding range to determine an entry in the table of sequential
 5 game outcomes to place a winning game outcome.
           20.     The gaming device of any bone of claims 11 to 19, wherein the processor is
   further configured to fill any empty entries in the table of sequential game outcomes with the
   generic losing outcome.
 0
           21.     The gaming device of any one of claims 18 to 20, wherein at least one of the
   ranges respectively corresponding to the plurality of winning game outcomes is modifiable by a
   casino operator to alter the table ranges of each outcome.
25         22.     The gaming device of any one of claims 18 to 21, wherein at least one of the
   ranges respectively corresponding to the plurality of winning game outcomes is modifiable based
   on game events occurring on the game device.
           23.     The gaming device of any one of claims 18 to 22, wherein at least one of the
30 ranges respectively corresponding to the plurality of winning game outcomes is modifiable based
   on characteristics of a player.
                                                     47

           24.     The gaming device of any one of claims 17 to 23, further comprising a plurality of
   win proximity meters respectively corresponding to each of the plurality of possible winning
   game outcomes.
 5
           25.     The gaming device of any one of claims 11 to 24, further comprising at least one
   win proximity meter.
           26.     A method of operating an electronic gaming device operable to repeatedly play a
 0 game responsive to a game initiating input by a player, the method comprising:
           establishing a plurality of different winning game outcomes;
           determining a game number count;
           for each winning game outcome, establishing a different, predetermined range of game
   numbers within which the associated winning game outcome must occur;
 5         selecting a different triggering game number from within each predetermined range of
   game numbers;
           entering each triggering game number and the associated winning game outcome into a
   table of game outcomes;
           entering losing game outcomes into the table of outcomes; receiving a game initiating
 0 input at the electronic gaming device;
           incrementing a game counter to indicate an entry in the table of game outcomes;
           displaying the associated winning game outcome on the gaming device when the
   indicated entry is a triggering game number; and
           selecting and displaying an outcome when the indicated entry is a losing outcome.
25
           27.     The method of claim 26, wherein displaying the associated winning game
   outcome on the gaming device when the indicated entry is a triggering game number includes:
           selecting display characteristics for the winning outcome; and
           displaying the winning outcome using the selected display characteristics.
30
                                                     48

           28.     The method of claim 26 or 27, wherein when the indicated entry includes first and
   second winning outcomes, and wherein the method further includes:
           displaying the first winning outcome; and
           thereafter automatically displaying the second winning outcome.
 5
           29.     The method of any one of claims 26 or 27, wherein when the indicated entry
   includes first and second winning outcomes, and wherein the method further includes:
           determining which of the first and second winning outcomes is associated with a larger
   award; and
 0         displaying the determined outcome with the larger associated award.
           30. The method of claim 26 or 27, wherein when the indicated entry includes first and
   second winning outcomes, and wherein the method further includes:
           displaying the first winning outcome;
 5         receiving another game initiating input; and
           thereafter displaying the second winning outcome.
           31.     A method of operating an electronic gaming device operable to repeatedly play a
   game responsive to a game initiating input by a player, the method comprising:
 0         presenting a player with a particular type of winning game outcome;
           selecting a next occurrence of the particular type of winning game outcome from a range
   of numbers associated with the particular type of winning game outcome;
           entering the selected next occurrence of the particular type of winning game outcome in a
   table of game outcomes;
25         incrementing a game counter that indicates a current game outcome in the table of game
   outcomes in response to wagers placed on the gaming device; and
           presenting the player with the particular type of winning game outcome on the electronic
   gaming device when the game counter indicates the next occurrence of the particular type of
   winning game outcome in a table of game outcomes, wherein selecting a next occurrence of the
30 particular type of winning game outcome includes:
                                                     49

           randomly selecting a number within the range of numbers associated with the particular
   type of winning game outcome; and
           combining the randomly selected number with a current value of the game counter; and
   wherein entering the selected next occurrence of the particular type of winning game outcome in
 5 a table of game outcomes includes associating next occurrence of the particular type of winning
   game outcome with a game number in the table of game outcomes.
           32.     The method of claim 31, wherein incrementing a game counter includes
   sequentially moving between game numbers associated with game outcomes in the table of game
 0 outcomes.
           33.     The method of claim 31 or 32, wherein presenting the player with the particular
   type of winning game outcome when the game counter indicates the next occurrence of the
   particular type of winning game outcome in a table of game outcomes includes displaying a
 5 winning game outcome and providing an award corresponding to the winning game outcome
   when the game counter indicates the game number associated with the next occurrence of the
   particular type of winning game outcome.
           34.     A game device comprising:
 0         a player interface panel including at least one game initiation device;
           a memory to store a table of sequential game outcomes, the table of sequential game
   outcomes being configured to identify whether each stored game outcome is one of a plurality of
   possible winning game outcomes or a generic losing outcome;
           a processor configured to increment a game counter that indicates at least one of the
25 sequential game outcomes and further configured to determine display parameters of each
   indicated game outcome;
           a game display to show each indicated game outcome having the determined display
   parameters; and
           a plurality of win proximity meters respectively corresponding to each of the plurality of
30 possible winning game outcomes.
                                                     50

           35.     The gaming device of claim 34, wherein the processor is configured to determine
   the display parameters of a game outcome associated with an award by selecting reel stops
   corresponding to the game outcome.
 5         36.     The gaming device of claim 34, wherein the processor is configured to determine
   the display parameters of a losing game outcome by selecting reel stops and confirming that the
   selected reel stops do not result in a winning outcome.
           37.     The gaming device of claim 34, wherein the processor is configured to determine
 0 the display parameters of a game outcome associated with an award by selecting cards
   corresponding to the game outcome.
           38.     The gaming device of claim 34, wherein the processor is further configured to
   rearrange an order of the selected cards and confirm that the rearranged order will result in the
 5 game outcome using a best strategy.
           39.     The gaming device of claim 34, wherein the processor is configured to determine
   the display parameters of a losing game outcome by selecting cards and confirming that the
   selected cards do not result in a winning outcome when using a best strategy.
 0
           40.     The gaming device of any one of claims 34 to 39, wherein each of the plurality of
   possible winning outcomes has a corresponding range within which it will appear in the stored
   table of sequential game outcomes.
25         41.     The gaming device of claim 40, wherein the processor is further configured to
   select a number within a corresponding range to determine an entry in the table of sequential
   game outcomes to place a winning game outcome.
           42.     The gaming device of any one of claims 34 to 41, wherein the processor is further
30 configured to fill any empty entries in the table of sequential game outcomes with the generic
                                                     51

   losing outcome.
            43.     The gaming device of any one of claims 40 to 42, wherein at least one of the
   ranges respectively corresponding to the plurality of winning game outcomes is modifiable by a
 5 casino operator to alter the table ranges of each outcome.
            44.     The gaming device of any one of claims 40 to 43, wherein at least one of the
   ranges respectively corresponding to the plurality of winning game outcomes is modifiable based
   on game events occurring on the game device.
 0
            45.     The gaming device of any one of claims 40 to 44, wherein at least one of the
   ranges respectively corresponding to the plurality of winning game outcomes is modifiable based
   on characteristics of a player.
 5          46.     A method of operating a gaming device, the method comprising:
            determining a game number count;
            selecting a triggering game number from a predetermined range of game numbers for at
   least one of a plurality of winning game outcomes;
            receiving a game initiating input;
 0          incrementing the game number count; and
            displaying the winning game outcome when game number count is greater than or equal
   to the triggering game number,
            wherein selecting a triggering game number for at least one of a plurality of winning
   game outcomes from a predetermined range of game numbers includes respectively selecting
25 triggering game numbers for each possible winning game outcome from predetermined ranges of
   game numbers associated with the possible winning game outcomes.
                                                     52

                                     !!"!# $$%& ' &         &% (   )&
                                          # *
<removed-date>
                                      "
                                                                            !
<removed-apn>
                                     /
                  01       +++                                              0*
                  0/       ,,,
                                     0!
                                                           & $%'
                                                                                0
                                                                                        0
                      /
                                                                                    1
              !
                                                      -.
                      0
                      2!
                                     .
                  2
                  20                                                    2
                                                 21
                             )                             2*
                                 !

                                                !!"!# $$%& ' &       &% (   )&
                                                 0# *
<removed-date>
                                                                 "                   !
<removed-apn>
                       /                         '
                                                      '
                                                          & 2
                           1                                 3
                   0!
              00
                   0
                                                                            0
                                                     -.
                               '                                                 0
                                   '
                                       &
                   2                       23

                             !!"!# $$%& ' &    &% (   )&
                                # *
<removed-date>
                                                                     !
<removed-apn>
                                              4'
              0    4'                         4'                0!
                                              4'
                        4'                    4'
              00
                        4'
                   4'   4'         4'                      4'
              0
                                                                         !

                                                           !!"!# $$%& ' &             &% (       )&
                                                            2# *
<removed-date>
                                                                                                            !4
               004                  0!4                 0 4
                           7   4         -        - 78 %      ' $%'         ( $' %&          &99      5:   4     :
<removed-apn>
                                     4            -                                          4'
                     4'                                            4'
                                             4'               4         -                                   4'
                          %$                      0 4
                                                                   (& 6                                    -.
                               02                                                     5'      4 6 !
                                                                  "*1
                     .%'                 .%'                      .%'                        .%'           .%'
              04      5&                    0                                                   2
                                         5&                       5&                         5&            5&
                               0"4
                     4                   4 0                      4                          4               $ '
                      .                   .                        .
                     5&                  5&                       5&                             +          4
                     04                                                                                          4

                                                !!"!# $$%& ' &   &% (    )&
                                                   # *
<removed-date>
                                                                                            !
                            0!              0
<removed-apn>
                      <<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<
                                                                 *                "
              0
                                                                              *             "
              0"             %(        %(                  %(           %(             %(
                  0          %(        %(                  %(           %(             %(
                        4                                                         5#   ;
                         0

                                          !!"!# $$%& ' &       &% (       )&
                                           *# *
<removed-date>
                   10   1            1!                                        1!
<removed-apn>
                                                                                     !
                                                                               *!
               *
              *0                                           *
                                                    *2                1
                                                           *
                            12
                                                                                "!
                                                                                     /!
                                 1

              !!"!# $$%& ' &   &% (   )&
               1# *
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>

              !!"!# $$%& ' &   &% (   )&
               /# *
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>

              !!"!# $$%& ' &   &% (   )&
               "# *
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>

              !!"!# $$%& ' &   &% (   )&
                !# *
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>

                                                     !!"!# $$%& ' &          &% (       )&
                                                         # *
<removed-date>
                                                                                                  !!
                                                     0
              00                  0!
<removed-apn>
                                                                       !"#
                                  4          -                                      4'
                   4'                                         4'
                                       4'                4         -                          4'
                        %$                   0
                                                              (& 6                           -.
                             02                                              5'      4 6 !
                                                             "*1
                   .%'                .%'                    .%'                    .%'      .%'
                                         0                                             2
                    5&                5&                     5&                     5&       5&
                             0"
                   4                  4 0                    4                      4          $ '
                    .                  .                      .
                   5&                 5&                     5&                         +     4
                    0
                                                 !

                                                              !!"!# $$%& ' &    &% (   )&
                                                                0# *
<removed-date>
                                                                                0!!
                                                         00                                      002
              000             00        00!
<removed-apn>
                                                                          !"#
                                                                           4'
                                                          4'
                                   4'         4'                           4'                4         -       $
                                                          4'
                                                                           4'
                         %$
                                                                     (& 6                                  -.
                                          00/
                                                                    "*1
                                                   001
                     4                    4                         4                  4                    $ '
                                   00"     0                                            '=                 4
                    0 0                            0 !                                                     0

                                                   !!"!# $$%& ' &    &% (        )&
                                                           # *
<removed-date>
                                                                                  !!
                               &@ ;'9 ' (
                                                           >    !?
                            '7    & &' & 9 $:
<removed-apn>
                                  7          '7
                                                           >    0?
                                       :
                              (    &A       '7
                                                           >    2?
                                  :        7
                                             >    *?
                                  ;& & 9
                                                                                & $%'       '7          > 02?
                                   '7
                                                                            :     7          .%'
                                  : 7 B
                                           , -
                             - %    & $%'
                              ''   & & A               >       /?
                            ;& & 9 : 7
                              & $%' ;& & 9
                                                       > 0!?
                                  : 7
                      - %         =       :       A
              > 00?     :    7            &' ( )&                    ;'& A            .%'          $:   > 0*?
                             ;&       & 9 : 7

                              !!"!# $$%& ' &            &% (     )&
                                  2# *
<removed-date>
                                                                       !
                                  7&
                         '7         :78             >      0?
                                   :
<removed-apn>
                       - %             &99
                      :78              ;&    & 9    >      2?
                              :        7
              -  '   )' (& 9 '7   :78 8
               78& & 9      '7  :78     :                         >   *?
              ' (    - %    ( &99   :78
                                                                      2!
                  (     &A    '7   :           7
                        ; &       - %           '        > 20?
                          &99    :78
                             '7           :
                         &' ( )&         ( &A& ( > 22?
                          '7   :          7
                  - %     '   &99    :78
                             )' (& 9                     > 2*?
                  (     &A& ( '7     : 7

                                                       !!"!# $$%& ' &            &% (    )&
                                                           # *
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                     !
                                                                   )                 ;& & 9 '7
                                                                    :        7      '       &' (            >   0?
                                                                        )&         '7   :78
<removed-apn>
                                                                        - C:                 & $%'
                                                                                                       >   2?
                                                                         (   A           :     7
                                                                               & $%'  =
                                                                                : 7 &                  >   *?
                                                                               - C:
                                                  1!
                                                                                   & &8:
              )           ;& & 9 '7
                                                                                   &' ( )' (           >   /?
               :      7 '        &' (             > 10?
                                                                                    .%'
                   )&   '7   :78
                       7&      : 7                                                             > *!?
                      )&    &9                 > 12?                             5'
                         &' ( )' (                                             : 7 &
                                                                              - C:  B
                                                                                         , -
                    & $%'            7&   (
                                              > 1*?
                            :    7
                                                                             ;'& A       .%'
                                                                                                       > *0?
                                                                                        $:
                            & &8:
                            &' ( )' (         > 1/?
                             .%'
                    ;'& A        .%'          > 1"?
                                $:

                             !!"!# $$%& ' &       &% (     )&
                               *# *
<removed-date>
                                                                /!
               )           ;& & 9 '7
                :      7 '        &' (            > /0?
                    )&   '7   :78
                    - C:            & $%'
                                              > /2?
                     (   A     :      7
<removed-apn>
                     . (       7& (           > /*?
                     '7       %' A
                       & $%'  =
                        : 7 &                 > //?
                       - C:
                         & &8:
                         &' ( )' (            > "!?
                          .%'
                                      > "0?
                          5'
                                            , -
                        : 7 &
                       - C:  B
                         = '7
                                              > "2?
                         & &' (B
                                     > "*?
                              %'                          ;'& A       .%'
                                                                            > ""?
                                B                                    $:
                                , -
                                        > "/?
                           '7
                         :78
                          &' ( )&
                        ;& & 9
                        : 7 B
              , -

