METHOD OF AMELIORATING CLOTTING PATHOLOGIES AND
RELATED MATERIALS AND METHODS
ABSTRACT
Methods for reducing blood clotting in a subject are provided, including methods to reduce the
risk of and/or treat blot clotting pathologies, comprising administering a pharmaceutically
effective formulation of at least one isofonn of a tocotrienol to the subject. Also provided are
compositions useful to reduce the risk or treat blood clotting pathologies, comprising one or
more tocotrienol compounds.

                                                     TITLE
          Method of Ameliorating Clotting Pathologies and Related Materials and Methods
  Inventors: Chandan Sen, Cameron Rink, Sashwati Roy, Savita Khanna
                         CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]         This application claims the benefit of United States Provisional Patent Application
  Number 61/673,500 filed July 19, 2012, the entire disclosure of which is expressly incorporated
  herein by reference.
                                   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]         Natural vitamin E is a fat-soluble vitamin that exists in eight different forms. Each form
  has its own biological activity, which is the measure of potency or functional use in the body.
  Vitamin E is a dietary antioxidant that assists in maintaining cell integrity. It is obtained from
  sunflower, safflower, canola, and olive oils; also from many grains, nuts, fruits as well as fatty parts
  of meats.
[0003]         Natural vitamin E comprises two general types of compounds: tocopherols (80%) and
  tocotrienols (20%). Both tocopherols and tocotrienols possess a chromanol ring. Tocopherols are
  characterized by a saturated side chain, whereas tocotrienols possess an isoprenoid side chain with
  double bonds at C-3, -7 and -11.
[0004]         Clinical trials testing the effects of natural vitamin E in a wide range of major health
  disorders have come to the general conclusion that natural vitamin E either is not helpful or could
  be harmful under certain conditions.
[0005]         Palm oil represents a major source of natural tocotrienols. Tocotrienols possess
  powerful neuroprotective, antioxidant, anti-cancer and cholesterol lowering properties that are
  biologically unique from the properties of tocopherols and work independent of antioxidant
  function. Micromolar amounts of tocotrienols suppress the activity of HMG-CoA reductase, the
  hepatic enzyme responsible for cholesterol synthesis. Tocotrienols are thought to have more potent
  antioxidant properties than tocopherols. The unsaturated side chain of tocotrienols allows for more
  efficient penetration into tissues that have saturated fatty layers such as the brain and liver.
  Comparative examination of the antioxidant properties of tocopherols and tocotrienols revealed that
  tocotrienols are advantageous because of their better distribution in the fatty layers of the cell
  membrane. Recently, an antiangiogenic function of tocotrienol has been reported.
                                                             1

[0006]          Like tocopherols, tocotrienols have been identified to possess distinct functions that
  may benefit human health, yet tocotrienols account for a very small fraction of overall vitamin E
  research.
[0007]          Approximately 795,000 strokes and >200,000 transient ischemic attacks (TIAs) occur
  in the US each year with 7 million stroke and TIA survivors. For stroke survivors, there is an 11%
  risk of recurrent stroke at 1 year and 26% risk at 5 years. The risk of stroke within 90 days of a TIA
  is between 9-11%.
[0008]          Some recurrent cardiovascular events including stroke seen in patients with
  cardiovascular disease on aspirin and clopidogrel may relate to the failure of these therapies to
  inhibit platelet aggregation in vitro. The incidence of aspirin and clopidogrel resistance is estimated
  to be 20%.
[0009]          In the U.S., it is estimated that -30 million people (9.5% of the population) take
  aspirin, and -48 million (15.3%) take clopidogrel daily for cardiovascular protection. Given that as
  high as 20% of the population are resistant to these therapies, millions of Americans may benefit
  from an alternate therapy.
[0010]          Aspirin decreases the relative risk of recurrent stroke, myocardial infarction, and
  vascular death by 13%, and non-fatal ischemic stroke by 19% in patients who have had a TIA or
  stroke. Anti-platelet agents such as clopidogrel and extended release dipyridamole plus aspirin are
  modestly more effective than aspirin alone in preventing stroke or combined cardiovascular
  endpoints; however, these medications are not as effective as dose-adjusted warfarin in patients
  with stroke due to atrial fibrillation where relative stroke risk is decreased by 62%. High dose
  atorvastatin decreases cholesterol levels in patients with stroke and decreases the risk of recurrent
  stroke but only by about 2% over 5 years. Also chronic treatment paradigms for aspirin,
  clopidogrel, and statins are not without detrimental side effects that include gastrointestinal ulcers,
  neutropenia, myalgias, and elevated liver function tests.
                                       SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0011]          The present invention provides methods of reducing blood clotting in a subject in need
  thereof, comprising administering a pharmaceutically-effective formulation of at least one isoform
  of tocotrienol and reducing blood clotting in a subject.
[0012]          Also provided are such methods, wherein the formulation comprises a dose of
  tocotrienol selected from the group consisting of: approximately 10mg to approximately 1000mg
  per day; approximately 50mg to approximately 500mg per day; approximately 100mg to
                                                            2

  approximately 500mg per day; approximately 200mg to approximately 500mg per day;
  approximately 300mg to approximately 500mg per day; up to approximately 400mg per day.
[0013]         Also provided are such methods, wherein the formulation comprises a dose of
  tocotrienol selected from the group consisting of: approximately 200mg to approximately 1000mg
  in one weekly dose; approximately 300mg to approximately 1000mg in one weekly dose;
  approximately 400mg to approximately 500mg in one weekly dose.
[0014]         Also provided are such methods, wherein the formulation is administered as a dose
  regimen selected from the group consisting of: approximately every other day; approximately
  every third day; approximately every fourth day; approximately every fifth day; approximately
  every sixth day; approximately every seventh day; approximately every other week; approximately
  once a month; approximately twice a month; approximately three times a month; approximately
  four times a month; approximately five times a month; approximately six times a month;
  approximately seven times a month; and approximately eight times a month.
[0015]         Also provided are such methods, wherein the formulation is an orally-delivered
  supplement.
[0016]         Also provided are such methods, wherein the oral supplement is delivered by one or
  more of: a capsule, a tablet pill, a colloid, a piece of chewing gum, a gel, a drink, a food additive, a
  thin film dissolving strip, an emulsified food spread, an emulsion, a syrup, a meat food, a dairy
  food, and an egg.
[0017]         Also provided are such methods, wherein the subject is selected from a population at
  elevated risk for a blood clotting pathology selected from the group consisting of: transient
  ischemic attack (TIA); stroke; embolism; and cardiac dysfunction.
[0018]         Also provided are such methods, wherein the subject is selected from the group
  consisting of: a person who has suffered a previous blood clotting pathology; a person who has
  suffered a stroke; a person who has suffered a cardiac event; a person who has suffered from
  transient ischemic attack; a person who has suffered an embolism; a person who has suffered a
  thrombosis; a person with a genetic predisposition for pathologic blood clotting; a person with
  biomarkers for pathologic blood clotting; and a person who takes anticoagulants.
[0019]         Also provided are such methods, wherein the subject is selected from the group
  consisting of: astronaut, pilot, professional racecar driver, deep-sea diver, mountain climber, pre
  surgery patient, sickle-cell anemia patient, sleep apnea patient, drug rehabilitation patient, elderly
  person, elderly animal, or companion animal.
                                                            3

[0020]          The present invention also provides pharmaceutical composition for the treatment of
  blood clotting disorders comprising: one or more antiplatelet-aggregation drugs and one or more
  tocotrienol compounds.
[0021]          Also provided are such compositions, wherein the thrombolytic drug is selected from
  the group consisting of: aspirin; clopidogrel; and dipyridamole.
[0022]          The present invention also provides methods of reducing reducing risk of a second
  stroke in a stroke patient in need thereof, comprising administering a pharmaceutically-effective
  formulation of at least one isoform of a tocotrienol and reducing risk of a second stroke in a stroke
  patient in need thereof.
[0023]          Also provided are such methods, wherein the stroke patient is resistant to aspirin or
  clopidogrel.
[0024]          Also provided are such methods, which comprise administering up to 400mg of at least
  one tocotrienol for at least 30 days, and a pharmaceutically-effective dose of at least one tocotrienol
  weekly thereafter.
[0025]          The present invention also provides methods of reducing risk of a second stroke in a
  stroke patient in need thereof, comprising administering a pharmaceutically-effective formulation
  of at least one isoform of a tocotrienol and reducing risk of a second stroke in a stroke patient in
  need thereof.
[0026]          Also provided are such methods, which further comprise administering to the patient a
  pharmaceutically-effective amount of aspirin or clopidogrel.
[0027]          Also provided are such methods, which comprise administering up to 400mg of at least
  one tocotrienol for at least 30 days, and a pharmaceutically-effective dose of at least one tocotrienol
  weekly thereafter.
[0028]          The present invention also provides method of inhibiting arachidonic acid
  mediated/12-LOX related platelet aggregation in a subject in need thereof, comprising
  administering a pharmaceutically-effective amount of mixed tocotrienols at weekly.
[0029]          The present invention also provides methods for ameliorating the risk or symptoms of
  pathologic platelet aggregation in a subject in need thereof and for which aspirin is contraindicated,
  comprising administering a pharmaceutically-effective amount of mixed tocotrienols to the subject.
[0030]          Also provided are such methods, wherein aspirin is contraindicated for a reason
  selected from the group consisting of: alcoholism; liver pathology; clotting disorder; allergy;
  salicylate intolerance; asthma; bronchospasms; peptic or intestinal ulcers; diabetes; gastritis;
                                                          4

  hemophilia; glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency; dengue fever; children or adolescents;
  kidney disease; hyperuricemia; and gout.
[0031]         The present invention also provides methods for ameliorating the risk or symptoms of
  pathologic platelet aggregation in a subject in need thereof and for which clopidogrel is
  contraindicated, comprising administering a pharmaceutically-effective amount of mixed
  tocotrienols to the subject.
[0032]         Also provided are such methods, wherein aspirin is contraindicated for a reason
  selected from the group consisting of: alcoholism; liver pathology; allergy; poor metabolizer due to
  cytochrome p450 CYP2C19 variant; stomach or intestinal ulcer; and kidney disorder.
[0033]         The present invention also provides methods for reducing the risk of a heart attack in a
  subject in need thereof, administering a pharmaceutically-effective amount of mixed tocotrienols at
  weekly.
[0034]         The present invention also provides methods for reducing the risk of a heart attack in a
  subject in need thereof, administering a pharmaceutically-effective amount of mixed tocotrienols at
  weekly.
                               BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0035]         Figure 1. Antiplatelet properties of tocotrienol vitamin E in human blood. Healthy
  subjects were supplemented with tocotrienol vitamin E (400mg/day) or vehicle placebo (control)
  for 4 weeks. Platelet function was assessed by optical platelet aggregometry with the following
  agonists: arachidonic acid (AA, 0.5mM), ADP (10gM), and collagen (2gg/ml). A. Representative
  platelet response curves from control and TCT supplemented subject. B. TCT completely prevented
  AA-mediated platelet aggregation as compared to control. TCT significantly reduced the platelet
  effect of ADP and collagen as compared to control (42% and 37% respectively).
[0036]         Figure 2. Natural vitamin E tocotrienol protects against stroke-induced brain
  injury. (A and B) Effect of 10 week oral supplementation of TCT or vehicle placebo (PBO) on
  cerebral cortex a-tocopherol and a.-tocotrienol concentration. No TCT was detected in brain of PBO
  supplemented canines. TCT supplementation significantly increased a-tocotrienol concentration in
  cerebral cortex. (C) Stroke-induced infarct volume in response to stroke. DTI=diffusion tensor
  image taken at 1h, FLAIR=fluid attenuated inversion recovery taken at 24h. (D) Representative
  coronal MR images of canine brain at 1h and 24h after stroke. *p<0.05.
                                                          5

[0037]          Figure 3. Human whole blood TCT concentration following daily 400mg oral
  supplementation. Blood TCT levels determined by HPLC as reporterd10 . Data represent individual
  values (males n=6, females n=10) and mean ± SD at baseline (0 weeks), 6 weeks and 12 weeks.
  Across time points, levels without a common letter differ, p<0.05.
[0038]          Figure 4. Aspirin mimetic anti-platelet effects of natural vitamin E TCT. Healthy
  subjects (n=3) underwent platelet function testing at baseline and following 2 mos of daily oral
  TCT (400mg) or placebo (PBO, vehicle) supplementation. (A) Percent aggregation using optical
  aggregometry with arachidonic acid agonist (AA, 0.5mM). AA is the same agonist used to test
  platelet function in response to aspirin. *p<0.05 PBO vs TCT within time point. (B & C)
  Representative tracings for PBO and TCT subjects following 2 mos supplementation.
[0039]          Figure 5. Oral TCT lowers triglyceride, and raises HDL cholesterol in healthy
  subjects. Blood cholesterol was tested in healthy subjects (n=3) at baseline and following 3 mos of
  daily oral TCT (400mg) supplementation. Average total cholesterol for subjects at baseline was
  204.0 ± 11.5. A modest (-5.1% ± 4.5%), but non-significant decrease in total cholesterol was
  observed after 3 months of supplementation. Triglyceride levels decreased significantly by 32.8%
  10.5%, and HDL cholesterol increased significantly by 10.8% ± 1.4% at 3 months post
  supplementation compared to baseline. *p<0.05, paired Student's test.
[0040]          Figure 6. Platelet coagulation, day 62 of supplementation.
[0041]          Figure 7. Platelet coagulation, day 2 post-supplementation.
[0042]          Figure 8. Platelet coagulation, day 5 post-supplementation.
[0043]          Figure 9. Platelet coagulation, day 10 post-supplementation.
[0044]          Figure 10. Platelet coagulation, day 20 post-supplementation.
                            DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0045]          The present invention identifies specific mechanisms that define aspirin-like
  antiplatelet properties for natural vitamin E isoform alpha-tocotrienol (TCT). When orally
  supplemented in humans, TCT completely inhibits arachidonic acid-mediated platelet aggregation.
  TCT also inhibits platelet aggregation induced by other agonists, including ADP and collagen (Fig.
  1).
[0046]          Aspirin is a drug with known side effects, including hepatotoxicity and ulcerative
  colitis. Furthermore, aspirin is contraindicated under a number of conditions (including alcoholism
  or allergies to ibuprofen or naproxen). In contrast, TCT is a natural isoform contained in foods and
                                                           6

  cooking oils (i.e. palm oil), and has been FDA approved (Generally Recognized As Safe, GRAS
  certified) for human consumption as a dietary supplement.
[0047]          Up to 25% of the population do not respond to the antiplatelet effects of aspirin.
  Aspirin works by acetylation of the active site of cyclooxygenase enzymes (COX- 1 and COX-2)
  thereby inhibiting COX-mediated metabolism of arachidonic acid. TCT targets another enzyme that
  metabolizes arachidonic acid: 12-Lipoxygenase (12-LOX). This invention is the first to describe an
  antiplatelet effect for TCT through the 12-LOX pathway. Since TCT works against arachidonic
  acid mediated platelet aggregation by an alternative mechanism, it benefits aspirin nonresponders.
[0048]          The practical and commercial applications of the present invention include it being
  used as a natural antiplatelet alternative to aspirin with no reported side effects.
[0049]          It can also be used as an alternative with an aspirin-like antiplatelet effect for aspirin
  non-responders and for patients in which aspirin use is contraindicated (i.e., alcoholism and
  allergy).
[0050]          Terms
[0051]          It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following
  detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not intended to limit the scope of
  the current teachings. In this application, the use of the singular includes the plural unless
  specifically stated otherwise.
[0052]          The use of the word "a" or "an" when used in conjunction with the term "comprising"
  in the claims and/or the specification may mean "one," but it is also consistent with the meaning of
  "one or more," "at least one," and "one or more than one."
[0053]          Also, the use of "comprise", "contain", and "include", or modifications of those root
  words, for example but not limited to, "comprises", "contained", and "including", are not intended
  to be limiting. The term "and/or" means that the terms before and after can be taken together or
  separately. For illustration purposes, but not as a limitation, "X and/or Y" can mean "X" or "Y" or
  "X and Y".
[0054]          The term "combinations thereof" as used herein refers to all permutations and
  combinations of the listed items preceding the term. For example, "A, B, C, or combinations
  thereof" is intended to include at least one of: A, B, C, AB, AC, BC, or ABC, and if order is
  important in a particular context, also BA, CA, CB, ACB, CBA, BCA, BAC, or CAB.
[0055]          Patient: As used herein, the term "patient" includes human and non-human animals.
  The preferred patient for treatment is a human. "Patient" and "subject" are used interchangeably
  herein.
                                                            7

[0056]          Pharmaceutically acceptable vehicles: The pharmaceutically acceptable carriers
  (vehicles) useful in this disclosure are conventional. Remington's PharmaceuticalSciences, by E.
  W. Martin, Mack Publishing Co., Easton, PA, 15th Edition (1975), describes compositions and
  formulations suitable for pharmaceutical delivery of one or more therapeutic compounds, molecules
  or agents.
[0057]          In general, the nature of the carrier will depend on the particular mode of
  administration being employed. For instance, parenteral formulations usually comprise injectable
  fluids that include pharmaceutically and physiologically acceptable fluids such as water,
  physiological saline, balanced salt solutions, aqueous dextrose, glycerol or the like as a vehicle. For
  solid compositions (for example, powder, pill, tablet, or capsule forms), conventional non-toxic
  solid carriers can include, for example, pharmaceutical grades of mannitol, lactose, starch, or
  magnesium stearate. In addition to biologically-neutral carriers, pharmaceutical compositions to be
  administered can contain minor amounts of non-toxic auxiliary substances, such as wetting or
  emulsifying agents, preservatives, and pH buffering agents and the like, for example sodium acetate
  or sorbitan monolaurate.
[0058]          Preventing, treating or ameliorating a disease: "Preventing" a disease refers to
  inhibiting the full development of a disease. "Treating" refers to a therapeutic intervention that
  ameliorates a sign or symptom of a disease or pathological condition after it has begun to develop.
  "Ameliorating" refers to the reduction in the number or severity of signs or symptoms of a disease.
[0059]          Therapeutic: A generic term that includes both diagnosis and treatment.
[0060]          Therapeutic agent: A composition capable of inducing a desired therapeutic or
  prophylactic effect when properly administered to a subject. "Incubating" includes a sufficient
  amount of time for an agent to interact with a cell or tissue. "Contacting" includes incubating an
  agent in solid or in liquid form with a cell or tissue. "Treating" a cell or tissue with an agent
  includes contacting or incubating the agent with the cell or tissue.
[0061]          Therapeutically effective amount: A quantity of a specified pharmaceutical or
  therapeutic agent sufficient to achieve a desired effect in a subject, or in a cell, being treated with
  the agent. The effective amount of the agent will be dependent on several factors, including, but
  not limited to the subject or cells being treated, and the manner of administration of the therapeutic
  composition.
[0062]          PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS
[0063]          Pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention comprise an effective amount of
  a compound(s) or composition(s) disclosed herein, and/or additional agents, dissolved or dispersed
                                                             8

  in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The phrases "pharmaceutical" or "pharmacologically
  acceptable" refers to molecular entities and compositions that produce no adverse, allergic or other
  untoward reaction when administered to an animal, such as, for example, a human. The preparation
  of an pharmaceutical composition that contains at least one compound or additional active
  ingredient will be known to those of skill in the art in light of the present disclosure, as exemplified
  by Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, 2003, incorporated herein by reference. Moreover, for
  animal (e.g., human) administration, it will be understood that preparations should meet sterility,
  pyrogenicity, general safety and purity standards as required by FDA Office of Biological
  Standards.
[0064]          As used herein, "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier" includes any and all solvents,
  dispersion media, coatings, surfactants, antioxidants, preservatives (e.g., antibacterial agents,
  antifungal agents), isotonic agents, absorption delaying agents, salts, preservatives, drugs, drug
  stabilizers, gels, binders, excipients, disintegration agents, lubricants, sweetening agents, flavoring
  agents, dyes, such like materials and combinations thereof, as would be known to one of ordinary
  skill in the art (see, for example, Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, 995, pp. 1289-1329,
  incorporated herein by reference). Except insofar as any conventional carrier is incompatible with
  the active ingredient, its use in the pharmaceutical compositions is contemplated.
[0065]          A composition of the present invention, may comprise different types of carriers
  depending on whether it is to be administered in solid, liquid or aerosol form, and whether it need
  to be sterile for such routes of administration as injection. The present invention can be
  administered intravenously, intradermally, transdermally, intrathecally, intraarterially,
  intraperitoneally, intranasally, intravaginally, intrarectally, topically, intramuscularly,
  subcutaneously, mucosally, orally, topically, locally, inhalation (e.g., aerosol inhalation), injection,
  infusion, continuous infusion, localized perfusion bathing target cells directly, via a catheter, via a
  lavage, in cremes, in lipid compositions (e.g., liposomes), or by other method or any combination of
  the forgoing as would be known to one of ordinary skill in the art (see, for example, Remington's
  Pharmaceutical Sciences, 2003, incorporated herein by reference).
[0066]          Further in accordance with the present invention, composition(s) of the present
  invention suitable for administration is provided in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier with or
  without an inert diluent. The carrier should be assimilable and includes liquid, semi-solid, i.e.,
  pastes, or solid carriers. Except insofar as any conventional media, agent, diluent or carrier is
  detrimental to the recipient or to the therapeutic effectiveness of a composition contained therein,
  its use in administrable composition for use in practicing the methods of the present invention is
                                                            9

  appropriate. Examples of carriers or diluents include fats, oils, water, saline solutions, lipids,
  liposomes, resins, binders, fillers and the like, or combinations thereof. The composition may also
  comprise various antioxidants to retard oxidation of one or more component. Additionally, the
  prevention of the action of microorganisms can be brought about by preservatives such as various
  antibacterial and antifungal agents, including but not limited to parabens (e.g., methylparabens,
  propylparabens), chlorobutanol, phenol, sorbic acid, thimerosal or combinations thereof.
[0067]          In accordance with the present invention, the composition is combined with the carrier
  in any convenient and practical manner, i.e., by solution, suspension, emulsification, admixture,
  encapsulation, absorption and the like. Such procedures are routine for those skilled in the art.
[0068]          In a specific embodiment of the present invention, the composition is combined or
  mixed thoroughly with a semi-solid or solid carrier. The mixing can be carried out in any
  convenient manner such as grinding. Stabilizing agents can be also added in the mixing process in
  order to protect the composition from loss of therapeutic activity, i.e., denaturation in the stomach.
  Examples of stabilizers for use in an the composition include buffers, amino acids such as glycine
  and lysine, carbohydrates such as dextrose, mannose, galactose, fructose, lactose, sucrose, maltose,
  sorbitol, mannitol, etc.
[0069]          In further embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition may include small quantities
  of pharmacologically acceptable chelators or co-antioxidants. Examples of chelators include
  ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) and ethylene glycol-bis(beta-aminoethyl ether)-N,N,N',N'
  tetraacetic acid (EGTA). Examples of antioxidants including gallate esters, ascorbate, vitamin E
  (or other tocopherols), butylated hydroxytoluene, and/or benzoic acid. These chelators and/or co
  antioxidants may be used to stabilize a composition of the present invention. In certain
  embodiments, these chelators and/or antioxidants may stabilize a composition of the present
  invention, from decomposition by autooxidation.
[0070]          In further embodiments, the present invention may concern the use of a pharmaceutical
  lipid vehicle that includes a composition of the present invention, one or more lipids, and an
  aqueous solvent. As used herein, the term "lipid" will be defined to include any of a broad range of
  substances that is characteristically insoluble in water and extractable with an organic solvent. This
  broad class of compounds is known to those of skill in the art, and as the term "lipid" is used
  herein, it is not limited to any particular structure. Examples include compounds which contain
  long-chain aliphatic hydrocarbons and their derivatives. A lipid may be naturally occurring or
  synthetic (i.e., designed or produced by man). However, a lipid is usually a biological substance.
  Biological lipids are well known in the art, and include for example, neutral fats, phospholipids,
                                                          10

  phosphoglycerides, steroids, terpenes, lysolipids, glycosphingolipids, glycolipids, sulphatides,
  lipids with ether and ester-linked fatty acids and polymerizable lipids, and combinations thereof. Of
  course, compounds other than those specifically described herein that are understood by one of skill
  in the art as lipids are also encompassed by the compositions and methods of the present invention.
[0071]          One of ordinary skill in the art would be familiar with the range of techniques that can
  be employed for dispersing a composition in a lipid vehicle. For example, a composition of the
  present invention may be dispersed in a solution containing a lipid, dissolved with a lipid,
  emulsified with a lipid, mixed with a lipid, combined with a lipid, covalently bonded to a lipid,
  contained as a suspension in a lipid, contained or complexed with a micelle or liposome, or
  otherwise associated with a lipid or lipid structure by any means known to those of ordinary skill in
  the art. The dispersion may or may not result in the formation of liposomes.
[0072]          The actual dosage amount of a composition of the present invention administered to an
  animal patient can be determined by physical and physiological factors such as body weight,
  severity of condition, the type of disease being treated, previous or concurrent therapeutic
  interventions, idiopathy of the patient and on the route of administration. Depending upon the
  dosage and the route of administration, the number of administrations of a preferred dosage and/or
  an effective amount may vary according to the response of the subject. The practitioner responsible
  for administration will, in any event, determine the concentration of active ingredient(s) in a
  composition and appropriate dose(s) for the individual subject.
[0073]            Naturally, the amount of active compound(s) in each therapeutically useful
  composition may be prepared is such a way that a suitable dosage will be obtained in any given unit
  dose of the compound. Factors such as solubility, bioavailability, biological half-life, route of
  administration, product shelf life, as well as other pharmacological considerations will be
  contemplated by one skilled in the art of preparing such pharmaceutical formulations, and as such, a
  variety of dosages and treatment regimens may be desirable.
[0074]          ALIMENTARY COMPOSITIONS AND FORMULATIONS
[0075]          In certain embodiments of the present invention, a composition herein, and/or
  additional agents is formulated to be administered via an alimentary route. Alimentary routes
  include all possible routes of administration in which the composition is in direct contact with the
  alimentary tract. Specifically, the pharmaceutical compositions disclosed herein may be
  administered orally, buccally, rectally, or sublingually. As such, these compositions may be
  formulated with an inert diluent or with an assimilable edible carrier, or they may be enclosed in
                                                          11

  hard- or soft- shell gelatin capsule, or they may be compressed into tablets, or they may be
  incorporated directly with the food of the diet.
[0076]          In certain embodiments, the active compounds may be incorporated with excipients and
  used in the form of ingestible tablets, buccal tables, troches, capsules, elixirs, suspensions, syrups,
  wafers, and the like (Mathiowitz et al., 1997; Hwang et al., 1998; U.S. Patents 5,641,515; 5,580,579
  and 5,792, 451, each specifically incorporated herein by reference in its entirety). The tablets,
  troches, pills, capsules and the like may also contain the following: a binder, such as, for example,
  gum tragacanth, acacia, cornstarch, gelatin or combinations thereof; an excipient, such as, for
  example, dicalcium phosphate, mannitol, lactose, starch, magnesium stearate, sodium saccharine,
  cellulose, magnesium carbonate or combinations thereof; a disintegrating agent, such as, for
  example, corn starch, potato starch, alginic acid or combinations thereof; a lubricant, such as, for
  example, magnesium stearate; a sweetening agent, such as, for example, sucrose, lactose, saccharin
  or combinations thereof; a flavoring agent, such as, for example peppermint, oil of wintergreen,
  cherry flavoring, orange flavoring, etc. When the dosage unit form is a capsule, it may contain, in
  addition to materials of the above type, a liquid carrier. Various other materials may be present as
  coatings or to otherwise modify the physical form of the dosage unit. For instance, tablets, pills, or
  capsules may be coated with shellac, sugar, or both. When the dosage form is a capsule, it may
  contain, in addition to materials of the above type, carriers such as a liquid carrier. Gelatin
  capsules, tablets, or pills may be enterically coated. Enteric coatings prevent denaturation of the
  composition in the stomach or upper bowel where the pH is acidic. See, e.g., U.S. Patent 5,629,001.
  Upon reaching the small intestines, the basic pH therein dissolves the coating and permits the
  composition to be released and absorbed by specialized cells, e.g., epithelial enterocytes and Peyer's
  patch M cells. A syrup of elixir may contain the active compound sucrose as a sweetening agent
  methyl and propylparabens as preservatives, a dye and flavoring, such as cherry or orange flavor.
  Of course, any material used in preparing any dosage unit form should be pharmaceutically pure
  and substantially non-toxic in the amounts employed. In addition, the active compounds may be
  incorporated into sustained-release preparation and formulations.
[0077]          For oral administration the compositions of the present invention may alternatively be
  incorporated with one or more excipients in the form of a mouthwash, dentifrice, buccal tablet, oral
  spray, or sublingual orally-administered formulation. For example, a mouthwash may be prepared
  incorporating the active ingredient in the required amount in an appropriate solvent, such as a
  sodium borate solution (Dobell's Solution). Alternatively, the active ingredient may be incorporated
  into an oral solution such as one containing sodium borate, glycerin and potassium bicarbonate, or
                                                          12

  dispersed in a dentifrice, or added in a therapeutically-effective amount to a composition that may
  include water, binders, abrasives, flavoring agents, foaming agents, and humectants. Alternatively
  the compositions may be fashioned into a tablet or solution form that may be placed under the
  tongue or otherwise dissolved in the mouth.
[0078]          Additional formulations which are suitable for other modes of alimentary
  administration include suppositories. Suppositories are solid dosage forms of various weights and
  shapes, usually medicated, for insertion into the rectum. After insertion, suppositories soften, melt
  or dissolve in the cavity fluids. In general, for suppositories, traditional carriers may include, for
  example, polyalkylene glycols, triglycerides or combinations thereof.
[0079]          PARENTERAL COMPOSITIONS AND FORMULATIONS
[0080]          In further embodiments, a composition of the present invention, may be administered
  via a parenteral route. As used herein, the term "parenteral" includes routes that bypass the
  alimentary tract. Specifically, the pharmaceutical compositions disclosed herein may be
  administered for example, but not limited to intravenously, intradermally, intramuscularly,
  intraarterially, intrathecally, subcutaneous, or intraperitoneally.
[0081]          Sterile injectable solutions are prepared by incorporating the active compounds in the
  required amount in the appropriate solvent with various of the other ingredients enumerated above,
  as required, followed by filtered sterilization. Generally, dispersions are prepared by incorporating
  the various sterilized active ingredients into a sterile vehicle which contains the basic dispersion
  medium and the required other ingredients from those enumerated above. In the case of sterile
  powders for the preparation of sterile injectable solutions, the preferred methods of preparation are
  vacuum-drying and freeze-drying techniques which yield a powder of the active ingredient plus any
  additional desired ingredient from a previously sterile-filtered solution thereof. A powdered
  composition is combined with a liquid carrier such as, e.g., water or a saline solution, with or
  without a stabilizing agent.
[0082]          MISCELLANEOUS PHARMACEUTICAL FORMULATIONS
[0083]          In other preferred embodiments of the invention, the active compound may be
  formulated for administration via various miscellaneous routes, for example, topical (i.e.,
  transdermal) administration, mucosal administration (intranasal, vaginal, etc.) and/or inhalation.
[0084]          Pharmaceutical compositions for topical administration may include the active
  compound formulated for a medicated application such as an ointment, paste, cream or powder.
  Ointments include all oleaginous, adsorption, emulsion and water-soluble based compositions for
  topical application, while creams and lotions are those compositions that include an emulsion base
                                                           13

  only. Topically administered medications may contain a penetration enhancer to facilitate
  adsorption of the active ingredients through the skin. Suitable penetration enhancers include
  glycerin, alcohols, alkyl methyl sulfoxides, pyrrolidones and luarocapram. Possible bases for
  compositions for topical application include polyethylene glycol, lanolin, cold cream and
  petrolatum as well as any other suitable absorption, emulsion or water-soluble ointment base.
  Topical preparations may also include emulsifiers, gelling agents, and antimicrobial preservatives
  as necessary to preserve the active ingredient and provide for a homogenous mixture. Transdermal
  administration of the present invention may also comprise the use of a "patch." For example, the
  patch may supply one or more active substances at a predetermined rate and in a continuous manner
  over a fixed period of time.
[0085]         In certain embodiments, the pharmaceutical compositions may be delivered by eye
  drops, intranasal sprays, inhalation, and/or other aerosol delivery vehicles. Methods for delivering
  compositions directly to the lungs via nasal aerosol sprays has been described e.g., in U.S. Patents
  5,756,353 and 5,804,212 (each specifically incorporated herein by reference in its entirety).
  Likewise, the delivery of drugs using intranasal microparticle resins (Takenaga et al., 1998) and
  lysophosphatidyl-glycerol compounds (U.S. Patent 5,725, 871, specifically incorporated herein by
  reference in its entirety) are also well-known in the pharmaceutical arts. Likewise, transmucosal
  drug delivery in the form of a polytetrafluoroetheylene support matrix is described in U.S. Patent
  5,780,045.
[0086]         The term aerosol refers to a colloidal system of finely divided solid of liquid particles
  dispersed in a liquefied or pressurized gas propellant. The typical aerosol of the present invention
  for inhalation will consist of a suspension of active ingredients in liquid propellant or a mixture of
  liquid propellant and a suitable solvent. Suitable propellants include hydrocarbons and
  hydrocarbon ethers. Suitable containers will vary according to the pressure requirements of the
  propellant. Administration of the aerosol will vary according to subject's age, weight and the
  severity and response of the symptoms.
[0087]         Examples
[0088]         Example 1. Clinical Trials
[0089]         Healthy subjects were supplemented with placebo (vehicle) or natural vitamin E
  tocotrienol (800 mg) daily for 2 months. Platelet function was assessed using optical
  aggregometry. Tocotrienols completely inhibited platelet function within thirty (30) days of
  supplementation when arachidonic acid was used as a platelet agonist.
                                                          14

[0090]         Following withdrawal, functional platelet aggregation did not return for 20 days in
  subjects supplemented with tocotrienols. Importantly, platelet function recovery in low-dose
  aspirin (81mg) treated healthy volunteers occurs within 48-72 hours of withdrawal as shown in
  Figures 1.
[0091]         Example 2. Determining the safety of daily 400mg TCT supplementation in
  stroke or TIA patients.
[0092]         The oral TCT safety in a stroke/TIA population was studied. This initial critical step is
  designed to compartmentalize risk, and demonstrate safety in a small stroke/TIA cohort (N=100)
  receiving anti-platelet and statin medication as the current standard of care.
[0093]         As shown in Figure 11, stroke/TIA patients were consented and randomized to PBO or
  TCT supplementation groups by study biostatistician within 6 months of their sentinel stroke event.
               Initial visit: At the initial appointment with the research nurse, the participant
  returned/signed the consent and HIPAA forms. The Research Nurse recorded the subject's blood
  pressure and took a baseline blood draw (20 ml) to measure complete blood count, blood glucose,
  HbA1C, hepatic function panel, platelet function, lipid profile, and vitamin E content. Participants
  were given a 1-month supply of supplements (400mg PBO or TCT). Gel-capsules containing TCT
  or vehicle only (PBO) gel capsules will be provided by Carotech Inc (New Jersey). Subjects were
  educated regarding possible stroke related symptoms and were instructed to seek medical attention
  if they experienced such symptoms. They were asked to contact study personnel as soon as feasible
  following a recurrent event. A baseline health questionnaire that included screening for stroke
  symptoms was given.
[0094]         Tape Stripping: Tape stripping is a minimally invasive procedure to test for agent
  delivery and bioavailability. Following FDA-approved guidelines, the tape stripping site (left
  forearm) was cleaned by the Research Nurse with an alcohol cleansing pad before the tape strips
  are applied. The tape stripping procedure consists of discarding two sequential tape strips (Cuderm,
  TX) from the clean site, followed by collection of ten sequential strippings from the same location
  that are used for evaluation. Sequential removal of 0.5 - 1pm layers of the stratum corneum per
  strip and does not compromise skin barrier function. Vitamin E content of tape strips was
  determined by HPLC for compliance purposes as reported by the applicants
[0095]         1-month visit: The Research Nurse performed blood pressure measurement and tape
  stripping after which subjects will be given another 2-month supply of pills. A brief questionnaire
  will be conducted to specifically address changes in health (bleeding events, bruising, etc.)
  potentially related to TCT supplementation.
                                                          15

[0096]         2, 4, 5, 7, 8, 10, 11-month visits: Subjects were telephoned and a health questionnaire
  was conducted. Responses to the questionnaire that reflect potentially adverse changes in health
  prompted an additional clinical follow-up and their primary care physician was notified.
[0097]         3, 6, 9, 12 -month visit: The Research Nurse recorded the subject's blood pressure and
  take a blood draw (20 nil) for testing platelet function, complete blood count, lipid profile, blood
  glucose, HbAiC, hepatic function panel, and vitamin E content. The Research Nurse performed
  tape stripping for compliance after which subjects were given a 3-month supply of pills (except for
  the final 12-month appointment). As a secondary compliance measure, subjects were asked to
  return with the prior month's pill packs for counting.
[0098]         Results. 400mg TCT was safely tolerated in stroke survivors. There was no significant
  difference in liver function panel of healthy participants taking 400mg TCT daily for 3 months as
  compared to PBO (Table 2).
                                                           16

          Table 2
          Hepatic Function
          Panel                   baseline 3 mos                normal range
          PBO (400mg daily)
            Albumin (g/dL)          3.9      3.7                  3.4-4.8
                                     0.4       0.43.-48
            Bilirubin Direct         0.1       0.1                   <0.3
            (mg/dL)
            Bilirubin Total         0.7      0.7                     <1.5
            (mg/dL)                  0.2       0.1
            Alkaline               82.7 ±   74.7                   38-126
            Phosphatase (U/L)        5.0       0.6
            ALT (U/L)              23.0±
                                      1.7   29.0+                   8-35
                                               8.0
            AST (U/L)              24.0±    24.7+                   5-34
                                      1.0      3.1
            Total Protein (g/dL)    7.0±     6.7+                 6.4-8.3
                                     0.6       0.3
          TCT (400mg daily)
            Albumin (g/dL)          4.1      4.0+                 3.4-4.8
                                     0.4       0.2
            Bilirubin Direct         0.1       0.1                   <0.3
            (mg/dL)
            Bilirubin Total         0.8      0.6                     <1.5
            (mg/dL)                  0.2       0.1
            Alkaline               86.3 ±   76.3                   38-126
            Phosphatase (U/L)        12.7     15.0
            ALT (U/L)              23.0     20.3                    8- 35
            AST (U/L)              28.0 ±   27.0
                   AST(/L)5.6                  6.1+5-34
            Total Protein (g/dL)    7.6±
                                     0.5     7.2+
                                               0.2                6.4-8.3
                          'TCP supplemented n=3, TCT supplemented n=3.
[0099]        Example 3. Characterizing the antiplatelet effect of oral TCT in stroke or TIA
  survivors treated with asprin or clopidogrel.
                                                     17

[00100]          The inventors investigated whether TCT safely enhances the anti-platelet effect of
   aspirin and clopidogrel, the two most commonly used anti-platelet agents for secondary stroke
   prevention.
[00101]          The study design, participant randomization, and sample collection are detailed in
   Figure 11. Briefly, whole blood was collected in stroke survivors for aggregometry (Fig. 4) testing
   at baseline (while on standard of care anti-platelet therapy), and following randomization to PBO or
   TCT groups at months 1, 3, 6, 9, and 12. Both impedance and optical aggregometry methods were
   used to assess platelet function. Optical aggregometry from platelet-rich plasma remains the gold
   standard for platelet function testing, however a growing body of evidence suggests that electrical
   impedance aggregometry which includes giant platelet subspecies, erythrocytes, and leukocytes
   more accurately represents in vivo platelet response. Therefore, both optical and whole blood
   impedance aggregometry was used to assess platelet function using the following agonists:
   arachidonic acid (0.5mM), ADP (10gM), and collagen (2g/mL).
[00102]          To limit premature platelet activation, median cubital venipuncture was performed for
   whole blood collection using a 20G needle set with a sodium citrate (0.105 M) vacutainer tube (BD
   Medical, NJ). Blood samples remained at room temperature for 30min prior to further processing
   for platelet aggregometry. To limit variability in pH, collection tubes and processing was performed
   in plasticware that were capped with very little air space relative to blood or isolated platelet
   volume. Following 30min, whole blood and isolated platelet optical aggregometry was performed
   using a Model 700 aggregometer (Chrono-Log Corp., NJ).
[00103]         Impedance Aggregometry. Whole blood was diluted 1:1 with sterile saline and
   incubated for 5min at 37'C before testing. Electrical impedance aggregometry was recorded under
   the following settings: 37'C incubator, 1000 rpm stir bar speed, 0. 1x gain. Tracings were recorded
   for 10min after the addition of agonists: arachidonic acid (0.5mM), ADP (10gM), and collagen
   (2gg/mL, Chrono-log Corp., PA).
[00104]          Optical Aggregometry. After venipuncture (30 min), platelet-rich plasma (PRP) and
   platelet-poor plasma (PPP) was isolated from whole blood. To obtain PRP, whole blood was spun
   at room temperature for 15min at 135g after which PRP was slowly drawn off using a 1mL pipette.
   The remaining sample was spun again for 15min at 1500g. PPP was collected and stored separately
   using a 1mL pipette. Optical aggregometry measures the increase in light transmission through a
   stirring suspension of isolated platelets upon addition of agonists. PPP served to establish 100%
   light transmission for the instrument. PRP at baseline was zeroed to 0% transmission. After the
                                                           18

   addition of agonists (arachidonic acid, ADP, and collagen as above), tracings were recorded for
    10min.
[00105]          Results. In healthy subjects, daily oral TCT (400mg) significantly attenuated
   arachidonic acid-induced platelet aggregation (Fig. 4). Oral TCT enhanced anti-platelet response as
   compared to PBO and decrease the incidence of aspirin and clopidogrel resistance without
   increased bleeding risk. TCT is a natural and safe anti-platelet combination therapy in patients
   identified at baseline as aspirin and/or clopidogrel non-responders.
[00106]          Example 4. Does TCT reduce the incidence of recurrent stroke in survivors
[00107]          The inventors investigated whether TCT in addition to currently prescribed anti-platelet
   therapy will further decrease stroke recurrence in stroke/TIA patients.
[00108]          The study design, participant randomization, and sample collection are outlined in
   Figure 11. On the basis of published data, a stroke recurrence rate of 11% after one year was
   expected.
[00109]          Patients were instructed to contact study personnel as soon after a recurrent stroke as
   possible. Hospital records and copies of brain imaging studies were obtained for review and an
   added follow-up visit scheduled as soon as feasible. Patients were seen and examined by the study
   team stroke neurologist, Dr. Andrew Slivka who was blinded to treatment status. After the
   evaluation and review of records and imaging he determined whether the subject had experienced a
   stroke. In any subject who may not have sought treatment for a mild stroke, the health questionnaire
   given at all the clinic and phone follow-ups had questions designed for stroke screening. Any
   positive responses to these questions prompted a clinical evaluation by Dr. Slivka and testing
   including brain imaging to determine whether a stroke had occurred.
[00110]          Data analysis. Statistical analyses was performed using SAS 9.3 (SAS Institute, Inc.,
   Cary, NC). Descriptive statistics (mean, median, standard deviation, frequency, etc.) for collected
   variables was determined. The incidence of life threatening and major bleeds as well as the
   incidence of possible statin related side effects (including elevated liver function greater than 2
   times normal, development diabetes, myalgias requiring stopping medication) was compared
   between the 2 groups using Chi-square testing. For the platelet function analysis, four results
   obtained through the course of the study were compared with the baseline. In patients who are anti
   platelet resistant at baseline, the percent of patients with at least two of four follow-up results
   revealing platelet aggregation inhibition will be compared between each of the treatment groups
   and the control group using Chi-square test. Also the percent of patients with at least two of four
                                                            19

   treatment aggregation tests that demonstrated more than 10% greater inhibition compared to
   baseline were compared between each of the treatment groups and controls using the Chi-square
   test. Mean LDL levels were compared between the groups at baseline and average LDL levels
   during the course of the study were compared between the groups using analysis of variance. The
   incidence of stroke occurring during the course of the study was compared among the 3 groups
   using Chi-square testing.
[00111]          Results. This is the first evidence of a natural anti-platelet and statin mimetic vitamin
   with the ability to reduce stroke incidence. TCT in addition to current anti-platelet therapies reduces
   stroke recurrence. Given known benefits of pharmacological anti-platelet and statin therapies in
   reducing recurrent stroke incidence, TCT stands is a natural anti-platelet and statin mimetic adjunct.
[00112]          While a number of exemplary aspects and embodiments have been discussed above,
   those of skill in the art will recognize certain modifications, permutations, additions and sub
   combinations therefore. It is therefore intended that the following appended claims hereinafter
   introduced are interpreted to include all such modifications, permutations, additions and sub
   combinations are within their true spirit and scope.
[00113]          The terms and expressions which have been employed are used as terms of description
   and not of limitation, and there is no intention in the use of such terms and expressions of excluding
   any equivalents of the features shown and described or portions thereof, but it is recognized that
   various modifications are possible within the scope of the invention claimed. Thus, it should be
   understood that although the present invention has been specifically disclosed by preferred
   embodiments and optional features, modification and variation of the concepts herein disclosed
   may be resorted to by those skilled in the art, and that such modifications and variations are
   considered to be within the scope of this invention as defined by the appended claims. Whenever a
   range is given in the specification, all intermediate ranges and subranges, as well as all individual
   values included in the ranges given are intended to be included in the disclosure. When a Markush
   group or other grouping is used herein, all individual members of the group and all combinations
   and subcombinations possible of the group are intended to be individually included in the
   disclosure.
[00114]          In general the terms and phrases used herein have their art-recognized meaning, which
   can be found by reference to standard texts, journal references and contexts known to those skilled
   in the art. The above definitions are provided to clarify their specific use in the context of the
   invention.
                                                            20

[00115]          All patents and publications mentioned in the specification are indicative of the levels
   of skill of those skilled in the art to which the invention pertains. Supplementary information is
   available at the Journal of Cerebral Blood Flow and Metabolism website and said reference by the
   inventors is hereby incorporated by reference.
                                                            21

                                                  CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1.       A method of reducing blood clotting in a subject in need thereof, comprising administering
a pharmaceutically-effective formulation of at least one isoform of a tocotrienol and reducing blood
clotting in a subject.
2.       The method of claim 1, wherein the formulation comprises a dose of tocotrienol selected
from the group consisting of: approximately 10mg to approximately 1000mg per day;
approximately 50mg to approximately 500mg per day; approximately 100mg to approximately
500mg per day; approximately 200mg to approximately 500mg per day; approximately 300mg to
approximately 500mg per day; up to approximately 400mg per day.
3.       The method of claim 1, wherein the formulation comprises a dose of tocotrienol selected
from the group consisting of: approximately 200mg to approximately 1000mg in one weekly dose;
approximately 300mg to approximately 1000mg in one weekly dose; approximately 400mg to
approximately 500mg in one weekly dose.
4.       The method of claim 1, wherein the formulation is administered as a dose regimen selected
from the group consisting of: approximately every other day; approximately every third day;
approximately every fourth day; approximately every fifth day; approximately every sixth day;
approximately every seventh day; approximately every other week; approximately once a month;
approximately twice a month; approximately three times a month; approximately four times a
month; approximately five times a month; approximately six times a month; approximately seven
times a month; and approximately eight times a month.
5.       The method of claim 1, wherein the formulation is an orally-delivered supplement.
6.       The method of claim 3, wherein wherein the oral supplement is delivered by one or more
of: a capsule, a tablet pill, a colloid, a piece of chewing gum, a gel, a drink, a food additive, a thin
film dissolving strip, an emulsified food spread, an emulsion, a syrup, a meat food, a dairy food,
and an egg.
                                                         22

7.       The method of claim 1, wherein the subject is selected from a population at elevated risk
for a blood clotting pathology selected from the group consisting of: transient ischemic attack
(TIA); stroke; embolism; and cardiac arrest.
8.       The method of claim 1, wherein the subject is selected from the group consisting of:
wherein the subject is selected from: a person who has suffered a previous blood clotting pathology;
a person who has suffered a stroke; a person who has suffered a cardiac event; a person who has
suffered from transient ischemic attack; a person who has suffered an embolism; a person who has
suffered a thrombosis; a person with a genetic predisposition for pathologic blood clotting; a person
with biomarkers for pathologic blood clotting; and a person who takes anticoagulants.
9.       The method of claim 1, wherein the subject is selected from the group consisting of:
wherein the subject is selected from: astronaut, pilot, professional racecar driver, deep-sea diver,
mountain climber, pre-surgery patient, sickle-cell anemia patient, sleep apnea patient, drug
rehabilitation patient, elderly person, elderly animal, greyhound, racehorse, or companion animal.
10.      A pharmaceutical composition for the treatment of blood clotting disorders comprising:
         one or more antiplatelet-aggregation drugs, and
         one or more tocotrienol compounds.
11.      The pharmaceutical composition of claim 8, wherein the thrombolytic drug is selected from
the group consisting of: aspirin; clopidogrel; and dipyridamole.
12.      A method of reducing reducing risk of a second stroke in a stroke patient in need thereof,
comprising administering a pharmaceutically-effective formulation of at least one isoform of a
tocotrienol and reducing risk of a second stroke in a stroke patient in need thereof.
13.      A method of claim 10, wherein the stroke patient is resistant to aspirin or clopidogrel.
14.      A method of claim 10, which comprises administering up to 400mg of at least one
tocotrienol for at least 30 days, and a pharmaceutically-effective dose of at least one tocotrienol
weekly thereafter.
                                                        23

15.      A method of reducing reducing risk of a second stroke in a stroke patient in need thereof,
comprising administering a pharmaceutically-effective formulation of at least one isoform of a
tocotrienol and reducing risk of a second stroke in a stroke patient in need thereof.
16.      A method of claim 15, which further comprises administering to the patient a
pharmaceutically-effective amount of aspirin or clopidogrel.
17.      A method of claim 13, which comprises administering up to 400mg of at least one
tocotrienol for at least 30 days, and a pharmaceutically-effective dose of at least one tocotrienol
weekly thereafter.
18.      A method of inhibiting arachidonic acid-mediated/12-LOX related platelet aggregation in a
subject in need thereof, comprising administering a pharmaceutically-effective amount of mixed
tocotrienols at weekly.
19.      A method for ameliorating the risk or symptoms of pathologic platelet aggregation in a
subject in need thereof and for which aspirin is contraindicated, comprising administering a
pharmaceutically-effective amount of mixed tocotrienols to the subject.
20.      A method of claim 19, wherein aspirin is contraindicated for a reason selected from the
group consisting of: alcoholism; liver pathology; clotting disorder; allergy; salicylate intolerance;
asthma; bronchospasms; peptic or intestinal ulcers; diabetes; gastritis; hemophilia; glucose-6
phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency; dengue fever; children or adolescents; kidney disease;
hyperuricemia; and gout.
21.      A method for ameliorating the risk or symptoms of pathologic platelet aggregation in a
subject in need thereof and for which clopidogrel is contraindicated, comprising administering a
pharmaceutically-effective amount of mixed tocotrienols to the subject.
22.      A method of claim 19, wherein aspirin is contraindicated for a reason selected from the
group consisting of: alcoholism; liver pathology; allergy; poor metabolizer due to cytochrome p450
CYP2C19 variant; stomach or intestinal ulcer; and kidney disorder.
                                                       24

23.    A method for reducing the risk of a heart attack in a subject in need thereof, administering a
pharmaceutically-effective amount of mixed tocotrienols at weekly.
24.    A method for reducing the risk of a heart attack in a subject in need thereof, administering a
pharmaceutically-effective amount of mixed tocotrienols at weekly.
25.    A composition as substantially described herein with reference to and as illustrated by the
accompanying drawings.
26.    A method as substantially described herein with reference to and as illustrated by the
accompanying drawings.
                              The Ohio State University
          Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                              SPRUSON & FERGUSON
                                                    25

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
