        ABSTRACT
           A method and apparatus for producing a biocide from a hypochlorite oxidant
and an ammonium salt are provided. The method includes monitoring a control
parameter to optimize the ratio between the hypochlorite oxidant and the ammonium
salt. The control parameter may be oxidation-reduction       potential, conductivity,
induction or oxygen saturation.

         METHOD FOR CONTROLLING THE PRODUCTION OF A BIOCIDE
                 CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
      This is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2014213637, the entire   5
contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
         Reference is made to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 61/761,922,
filed   February   7, 2013    and entitled   METHOD      FOR    CONTROLLING        THE
PRODUCTION OF A BIOCIDE, the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by
reference and priority of which is hereby claimed.                                       10
         Reference is made to U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 07/892,533, filed June
1, 1992 and entitled PROCESS AND COMPOSITIONS FOR THE DISINFECTION
OF WATERS, U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 08/809,346, filed January 27, 1998
and entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR TREATING LIQUIDS TO INHIBIT
GROWTH OF LIVING ORGANISMS,                   and U.S. Patent Application Serial No.     15
10/586,349, filed July 14, 2006 and entitled BIOCIDES AND APPARATUS, the
disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference.
                              FIELD OF THE INVENTION
                                                                                         20
         The present invention relates to a method for controlling and optimizing the
production of a biocide.
                         BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
                                                                                         25
         Various techniques are known for producing and using biocides.
                                             1

                           SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
        The present invention seeks to provide a method and apparatus for controlling
and optimizing the production of a biocide.
        There is thus provided in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present  5
invention a method for producing a biocide including: mixing a solution of a
hypochlorite oxidant with a solution of an ammonium salt; and monitoring a control
parameter that indicates when a maximum yield of the biocide, which yield is attainable
without degradation of the biocide, has been reached; wherein the control parameter is
not pH. Preferably, the hypochlorite oxidant is sodium hypochlorite.                     10
        In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the solution
of a hypochlorite oxidant is prepared by diluting a commercial stock solution of about
8-18% with water immediately prior to use. Preferably, the solution of a hypochlorite
oxidant has a concentration from about 1000 to about 20,000 ppm, more preferably
from about 3000 to about 10,000 ppm, and most preferably from about 3000 to about        15
6000 ppm.
         In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the
ammonium salt is selected from ammonium bicarbonate, ammonium carbonate,
ammonium carbamate, ammonium hydroxide,             ammonium sulfamate,      ammonium
bromide, ammonium chloride and ammonium sulfate. Preferably, the ammonium salt is        20
selected from ammonium carbonate, ammonium carbamate, ammonium sulfamate,
ammonium bromide, ammonium chloride and ammonium sulfate. More preferably, the
ammonium salt is selected from ammonium carbonate, ammonium carbamate and
ammonium sulfamate. Most preferably, the ammonium salt is selected from ammonium
carbonate and ammonium carbamate.                                                        25
        In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the solution
of an ammonium salt is prepared by diluting a commercial stock solution of about 15
50% with water or with the solution of a diluted hypochlorite oxidant immediately prior
to use. Preferably, the solution of an ammonium salt has a concentration from about
1,000 to about 50,000 ppm, more preferably, from about 12,000 to about 30,000 ppm.       30
In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the solution of an
ammonium salt further includes a base. Preferably, the base is sodium hydroxide.
                                            2

        Preferably, the control parameter is selected from oxidation-reduction potential
(ORP), conductivity, induction, total dissolved solids (TDS), oxygen concentration and
oxygen saturation. In one embodiment, the control parameter is ORP. In an alternative
embodiment, the control parameter is conductivity, induction or TDS. In a still further
embodiment, the control parameter is oxygen concentration or oxygen saturation.          5
        In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the method
includes: providing a discrete amount of the solution of an ammonium salt; and adding a
plurality of discrete amounts of the solution of a hypochlorite oxidant to the discrete
amount of the solution of an ammonium salt under mixing conditions; and measuring
the control parameter after the addition of each discrete amount of the solution of a    10
hypochlorite oxidant. Alternatively, a plurality of discrete amounts of an ammonium
salt solution are added to a discrete amount of a hypochlorite solution under mixing
conditions while measuring the control parameter.
        In accordance with another preferred embodiment of the present invention, the
method includes: mixing a stream of a hypochlorite solution with a stream of an          15
ammonium salt solution in a mixing chamber at a starting ratio; holding the flow rate of
one of the streams constant and gradually increasing or decreasing the flow rate of the
other of the streams; and monitoring the value of the control parameter in a stream
leaving the mixing chamber. In one embodiment, the monitoring is continuous. In an
alternative embodiment, the monitoring includes measuring the control parameter in       20
discrete samples of the stream leaving the mixing chamber.
        There is also provided in accordance with another preferred embodiment of the
present invention a method of producing a biocide, including: providing a solution of a
hypochlorite oxidant; providing a solution of an ammonium salt; diluting the solution of
an ammonium salt with a portion of the solution of a hypochlorite oxidant to form an     25
ammonium salt dilution; and mixing the remainder of the solution of a hypochlorite
oxidant with the ammonium salt dilution. Preferably, the hypochlorite oxidant is sodium
hypochlorite.
        In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the solution
of a hypochlorite oxidant is prepared by diluting a commercial stock solution of about   30
8-18% with water immediately prior to use. Preferably, the solution of a hypochlorite
oxidant has a concentration from about 2000 to about 20,000 ppm, more preferably
                                            3

from about 3000 to about 10,000 ppm, and most preferably from about 3000 to about
6000 ppm.
         In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the
ammonium salt is selected from ammonium bicarbonate, ammonium carbonate,
ammonium carbamate, ammonium hydroxide,              ammonium sulfamate,       ammonium    5
bromide, ammonium chloride and ammonium sulfate. Preferably, the ammonium salt is
selected from ammonium carbonate, ammonium carbamate, ammonium sulfamate,
ammonium bromide, ammonium chloride and ammonium sulfate. More preferably, the
ammonium salt is selected from ammonium carbonate, ammonium carbamate and
ammonium sulfamate. Most preferably, the ammonium salt is selected from ammonium           10
carbonate and ammonium carbamate.
        In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the solution
of an ammonium salt is prepared by diluting a commercial stock solution of about 15
50% with water or with the solution of a hypochlorite oxidant immediately prior to use.
Preferably, the solution of an ammonium salt has a concentration from about 1,000 to       15
about 50,000 ppm, more preferably, from about 12,000 to about 30,000 ppm.
        In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the solution
of an ammonium salt further includes a base. Preferably, the base is sodium hydroxide.
In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the portion of the
solution of a hypochlorite oxidant used to dilute the solution of an ammonium salt is      20
about 10% to about 50% of the solution of a hypochlorite oxidant.
        Preferably, the method further includes monitoring a control parameter that
indicates when a maximum yield of the biocide, which yield is attainable without
degradation of the biocide, has been reached. Preferably, the control parameter is
selected from oxidation-reduction potential (ORP), conductivity, induction, TDS,           25
oxygen concentration and oxygen saturation. In one embodiment, the control parameter
is ORP. In an alternative embodiment, the control parameter is conductivity, induction
or TDS. In a still further embodiment, the control parameter is oxygen saturation or
oxygen concentration.
        In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the method     30
includes: adding a plurality of discrete amounts of the solution of a hypochlorite oxidant
to the ammonium salt dilution under mixing conditions; and measuring the control
                                            4

parameter after the addition of each discrete amount of the solution of a hypochlorite
oxidant.
        In accordance with another preferred embodiment of the present invention, the
method includes: mixing a stream of a hypochlorite solution with a stream of the
ammonium salt dilution in a mixing chamber at a starting ratio; holding the flow rate of  5
one of the streams constant and gradually increasing or decreasing the flow rate of the
other of the streams; and monitoring the value of the control parameter in a stream
leaving the mixing chamber. In one embodiment, the monitoring is continuous. In
another embodiment, the monitoring includes measuring the control parameter in
discrete samples of the stream leaving the mixing chamber.                                10
        There is also provided in accordance with another preferred embodiment of the
present invention an apparatus for producing a biocide including: a reservoir containing
a solution of a hypochlorite oxidant; a reservoir containing a solution of an ammonium
salt; a mixing chamber for mixing the hypochlorite oxidant with the ammonium salt to
form a biocide; and a control cell for monitoring a control parameter of the biocide that 15
indicates when a maximum yield of the biocide, which yield is attainable without
degradation of the biocide, has been reached; wherein the control parameter is not pH.
Preferably, the hypochlorite oxidant is sodium hypochlorite.
        In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the
apparatus further includes a water source; and a conduit wherein the solution of a        20
hypochlorite oxidant is mixed with the water to form a hypochlorite dilution, the
conduit coupled to the mixing chamber. Preferably, the apparatus further includes a
conduit wherein the solution of an ammonium salt is mixed with the water or with the
hypochlorite dilution to form an ammonium salt dilution, the conduit coupled to the
mixing chamber.                                                                           25
        Preferably, the ammonium salt is selected from ammonium bicarbonate,
ammonium      carbonate, ammonium carbamate,        ammonium hydroxide, ammonium
sulfamate, ammonium bromide, ammonium chloride and ammonium sulfate. More
preferably, the ammonium salt is selected from ammonium carbonate, ammonium
carbamate,   ammonium sulfamate,       ammonium bromide, ammonium chloride and            30
ammonium sulfate. In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention,
                                            5

the solution of an ammonium salt further includes a base. Preferably, the base is sodium
hydroxide.
        Preferably, the control parameter is selected from oxidation-reduction potential
(ORP), conductivity, induction, TDS, oxygen concentration and oxygen saturation. In
one embodiment, the control parameter is ORP. In an alternative embodiment, the            5
control parameter is conductivity, induction or TDS. In a still further embodiment, the
control parameter is oxygen saturation or oxygen concentration.
        In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the
apparatus further includes a control unit configured to: hold the flow rate of one of the
hypochlorite oxidant and the ammonium salt constant and gradually increase or              10
decrease the flow rate of the other one of the hypochlorite oxidant and the ammonium
salt; monitor the value of the control parameter of the biocide; and adjust the flow rate
of the hypochlorite oxidant or the ammonium salt to attain a maximum yield of the
biocide, which yield is attainable without degradation of the biocide.
        There is also provided in accordance with another preferred embodiment of the      15
present invention an apparatus for producing a biocide including: a reservoir containing
a solution of a hypochlorite oxidant; a reservoir containing a solution of an ammonium
salt; a water source; a conduit for mixing the solution of a hypochlorite oxidant solution
with the water to form a hypochlorite dilution; a conduit for mixing the solution of an
ammonium salt with a portion of the hypochlorite dilution to form an ammonium salt         20
dilution; and a mixing chamber for mixing a portion of the hypochlorite dilution with
the ammonium salt dilution to form a biocide. Preferably, the hypochlorite oxidant is
sodium hypochlorite.
        Preferably, the ammonium salt is selected from ammonium bicarbonate,
ammonium carbonate, ammonium carbamate, ammonium hydroxide, ammonium                       25
sulfamate, ammonium bromide, ammonium chloride and ammonium sulfate. More
preferably, the ammonium salt is selected from ammonium carbonate, ammonium
carbamate, ammonium sulfamate, ammonium bromide, ammonium chloride and
ammonium sulfate. In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention,
the solution of an ammonium salt further includes a base. Preferably, the base is sodium   30
hydroxide. Preferably, the portion of the hypochlorite dilution mixed with the solution
                                             6

of an ammonium salt is about 10% to about 50% of the solution of a hypochlorite
oxidant.
        In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the
apparatus further includes a control cell for monitoring a control parameter of the
biocide that indicates when a maximum yield of the biocide, which yield is attainable     5
without degradation of the biocide, has been reached. Preferably, the control parameter
is selected from oxidation-reduction potential (ORP), conductivity, induction, TDS,
oxygen concentration and oxygen saturation. In one embodiment, the control parameter
is ORP. In an alternative embodiment, the control parameter is conductivity, induction
or TDS. In a still further embodiment, the control parameter is oxygen saturation or      10
oxygen concentration.
        In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the
apparatus further includes a control unit configured to: hold the flow rate of one of the
hypochlorite dilution and the ammonium salt dilution constant and gradually increase or
decrease the flow rate of the other one of the hypochlorite dilution and the ammonium     15
salt dilution; monitor the value of the control parameter of the biocide; and adjust the
flow rate of the hypochlorite dilution or the ammonium salt dilution to attain a
maximum yield of the biocide, which yield is attainable without degradation of the
biocide.
                                                                                          20
                      BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING
        The present invention will be understood and appreciated more fully from the
following detailed description, taken in conjunction with the drawing in which:
        Fig. 1 is a simplified diagram of an apparatus in accordance with one             25
embodiment of the present invention.
                                             7

                  DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
        As described in published European Patent Publication No. 0 517 102, the
contents of which are incorporated herein by reference, biological fouling of circulating
water is a well known problem caused by algae, fungi, bacteria, and other simple life     5
forms found in circulating water. That patent publication describes controlling
biofouling in high chlorine demand waters by mixing two components, one of which is
an oxidant and the other an ammonium salt, and adding the mixture substantially
immediately to the aqueous system to be treated. This produces the active biocidal
ingredient, as described therein. A large number of examples of oxidants and              10
ammonium salts are described in that patent publication.
        A problem encountered in this method of treating liquid to inhibit growth of
living organisms, however, is that the concentrated active biocidal ingredient is
extremely non-stable chemically and quickly decomposes upon formation with the
result that there is a fast drop in pH. This is especially so for the active biocidal     15
ingredients derived from ammonium bromide where the decomposition results in the
undesirable formation of HOBr. Therefore, when conventional dosing pumps and
mixers are used, the formed active biocidal ingredient quickly decomposes and loses its
efficacy. Also, while the pH range of such concentrated active biocide is theoretically
8.0-12.5, actually the pH never exceeds 8.0 because of the fast decomposition. In         20
addition, the ammonium salts must be supplied in excess in order to decrease the
decomposition rate.
        In US 5,976,386, the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference, a
method and apparatus for producing a biocide are disclosed that enable a constant ratio
of oxidant/amine source to be maintained, thereby avoiding the need to use excess         25
amine source in order to stabilize the reaction product and to maintain a reproducible
product containing almost no degradation products. The novel method described therein
includes producing an efficient in situ dilution of both the oxidant and the amine source
and synchronously metering the two dilutions into a conduit to continuously mix therein
according to a predetermined ratio to produce an active biocidal ingredient.              30
        As already described in US 5,976,386, careful control of the biocide formation is
necessary. The biocide production process uses a multiple feeding point system
                                             8

requiring a separate control for each feed line since different pumps respond differently
to pressure change, and pump feed rates depend on the water flow pressure. As for any
on-site process, an online control is needed to ensure production of the right product at
high yield, and with minimal side products. Furthermore, as shown in the above
referenced patents, equimolar amounts of ammonium and hypochlorite are necessary for        5
optimal performance. Excess hypochlorite, even local excess, leads to production of
multi-chlorinated chloramines and degradation of the biocidal product monochloramine
(MCA) to form NO, species and inorganic acids. With insufficient hypochlorite, the
ammonium does not fully react, leading to a lower biocide concentration, excessive use
of chemicals, higher cost of treatment, etc. The components used to make the biocide,       10
such as sodium hypochlorite and ammonium carbamate, disclosed in US 7,837,883, the
contents of which are incorporated herein by reference, are unstable chemicals, and
degrade with time during use. As a result, operating the feeding unit under pre
determined constant feed rates of the two reagents will produce variable products. In
addition, other parameters such as water temperature, high concentration of the             15
produced biocide can water quality can enhance degradation of the biocide and cause
the biocide to degrade before the 1:1 equimolar ratio has been reached.
         Thus, there is a need to maintain the system at the equimolar point or the point
of highest possible biocide yield with no degradation by continuously monitoring the
reaction online and making the needed changes in the process to maintain equimolarity       20
or no degradation under changing conditions (e.g., reagent concentration, different
feeding points, changes in dilution water quality, changes in temperature of dilution
water, etc). Defining an end point for the reaction is also crucial for making the biocide
in the field.
         In US 5,976,386 is disclosed the use of pH as an indicator of the end point of the 25
reaction between an ammonium salt and sodium hypochlorite. Addition of hypochlorite
to an ammonium salt solution increases the pH. However, after the equimolar point, the
hypochlorite begins to degrade the biocidal MCA forming inorganic acids, which lower
the pH. Thus, pH can be used as an indicator of the end point.
         However, the effect of the degradation of MCA on pH is only noticeable at a pH     30
up to about 10.5. Above pH 10.5, the amount of acid necessary to noticeably lower the
pH is so high, that a significant excess of hypochlorite must be added before the pH
                                             9

change is observed. Accordingly, pH loses its sensitivity to degradation of the MCA and
is not a reliable indicator of the end point at high pH. Some ammonium salts, such as
ammonium carbamate, are stable only at high pH levels or high alkalinity which dictates
production of the biocide at a high pH and, therefore, additional end point indicators for
production of MCA at high pH are necessary.                                                5
        It is known to use pH and oxidation-reduction potential (ORP) to monitor
chlorine demand during water disinfection. See, for example,
            a. Devkota et al., "Variation of Oxidation-Reduction Potential Along the
                Breakpoint Curves in Low-Ammonia Effluents", Water Environment
                Research 2000, 72(5):610-617;                                              10
            b. Karanfil et al., "Analysis of disinfection difficulties in two municipal
                water pollution control plants", Disinfection '98: The Latest Trends in
                Wastewater Disinfection: Chlorination vs. UV Disinfection, Proceedings,
                Baltimore, Apr. 19-22, 1998, 111-122;
            c.  Kim et al., "New process control strategy for wastewater chlorination      15
                and dechlorination using ORP/pH", Water Sci Technol. 2006; 53(4
                5):431-438;
            d. Kopchynski et al., "Comparisons of on-line ORP and chlorine residual
                monitoring/control systems for wastewater treatment plant final effluent
                chlorination", Conference Proceedings - Water Environment Federation       20
                Annual Conference & Exposition, 74th, Atlanta, GA, United States, Oct.
                 13-17, 2001, 4275-4295; and
            e.   Yu, "Feed-forward dose control of wastewater chlorination using on-line
                pH and ORP titration", Chemosphere. 2004 Sep, 56(10):973-980.
        Other monitoring methods, such as colorimetric analysis are also known. See,       25
for example,
            f.  Harp,    "Specific  Determination   of Inorganic    Monochloramine      in
                Chlorinated Wastewaters", Water Environment Research 2000, 72(6):
                706-713;
            g. Kobylinski et al., "On Line Control Strategies for Disinfection Systems:    30
                 Success and Failure" Proceedings of the Water Environment Federation,
                WEFTEC 2006: Session 81 through Session 94, pp. 6371-6394; and
                                            10

            h. Pollema, "Monitoring Monochloramine,         Total Ammonia, and Free
                Ammonia in the Chlorination of Treated Wastewater", Proceedings of
                the Water Environment Federation, Disinfection 2000, pp. 168-18 1.
        Woodward et al., "Relationships between observed monochloramine decay rates
and other physical and chemical parameters in a large scale experimental pipe system",     5
Proceedings - Water Quality Technology Conference (1996), Volume Date 1995, (Pt.
1), 935-949 discloses the use of oxygen concentration in addition to ORP to monitor the
concentration of chlorine species in water distribution systems. US 8,012,758 discloses
the use of dissolved oxygen to measure microbiological activity. There does not appear
to be any report of using a control parameter other than pH for producing a                10
monochloramine biocide at a maximum yield, which can be obtained without
degradation of the biocide.
        In accordance with a first embodiment of the present invention, there is provided
a method for producing a biocide comprising mixing a solution of a hypochlorite
oxidant with a solution of an ammonium salt and monitoring a control parameter that        15
can indicate the proper ratio of hypochlorite to ammonium salt in order to produce the
maximum amount of biocide without degrading the biocide.
        In one embodiment, the biocide is produced in a batch process. The batch
process comprises adding a solution of a hypochlorite oxidant to a solution of an
ammonium salt while mixing, monitoring a control parameter that can indicate that all      20
of the ammonium salt has reacted, or that the biocide has begun to degrade and ceasing
the addition of the solution of hypochlorite when the control parameter indicates that all
of the ammonium salt has reacted. The biocide so produced can be used immediately or
stored for later use. During storage, monitoring of the control parameter can be
continued to ensure biocide quality and to determine the point in time when the biocide    25
must be used or else it will degrade.
        In an alternative embodiment, the biocide is produced in a continuous process.
In the continuous process, a solution of hypochlorite and a solution of ammonium salt
are mixed continuously in a mixer, and a control parameter is monitored online in the
mixer or in a conduit downstream from the mixer or is measured in discrete samples         30
removed from the mixer. The flow rate of one of the solutions is held constant while the
flow rate of the other solution is varied until the control parameter indicates that the
                                            11

optimum ratio of flow rates has been reached to produce the biocide at the highest yield
possible without degradation. Typically, monitoring of the control parameter is
continued in order to identify the need to adjust the flow rates as a result of a change in
the concentration of one of the solutions. The biocide produced in the continuous
process can be applied to a medium as it is produced or can be stored for later use.         5
        The hypochlorite oxidant can be any hypochlorite oxidant, such as the
hypochlorite salt of an alkali metal or alkaline earth metal. Preferably, the hypochlorite
salt is sodium hypochlorite, potassium hypochlorite or calcium hypochlorite. Most
preferably, the hypochlorite salt is sodium hypochlorite.
        The hypochlorite solution is preferably prepared by mixing a concentrated stock      10
solution of hypochlorite with water to form a hypochlorite dilution. The ammonium salt
solution is preferably prepared by mixing a concentrated stock solution of the
ammonium salt with water or with the hypochlorite dilution to form an ammonium salt
dilution. When the ammonium stock solution is diluted with water to prepare an
ammonium salt dilution that is equimolar with the hypochlorite dilution, the final           15
concentration of the biocide will be half the concentration of the hypochlorite dilution.
On the other hand, when the ammonium stock solution is diluted with the hypochlorite
dilution, the final concentration of the biocide will be equal to the concentration of the
hypochlorite dilution.
        The concentration of the hypochlorite dilution is preferably from about 1000 to      20
about 20,000 ppm. More preferably, the concentration of the hypochlorite solution is
from about 3000 to about 10,000 ppm. Most preferably, the concentration of the
hypochlorite solution is from about 3500 to about 7000 ppm. The hypochlorite solution
is preferably prepared by diluting a commercial stock solution of about 8-18% with
water immediately prior to use. Preferably, the hypochlorite dilution is prepared            25
immediately before use. When the biocide is formed in a continuous process, the
hypochlorite dilution is preferably prepared online as it is needed.
        Any ammonium salt can be used in the method of the present invention.
Preferably, the ammonium salt is selected from ammonium bicarbonate, ammonium
bromide,     ammonium     carbamate,     ammonium      carbonate,    ammonium      chloride, 30
ammonium hydroxide, ammonium sulfamate and ammonium sulfate. More preferably,
the ammonium salt is selected from ammonium bromide, ammonium carbamate,
                                             12

ammonium carbonate, ammonium chloride, ammonium sulfamate and ammonium
sulfate. Even more preferably, the ammonium salt is selected from ammonium
carbamate, ammonium carbonate and ammonium sulfamate. Most preferably, the
ammonium salt is ammonium carbamate.
         In one embodiment, the ammonium salt dilution is prepared by diluting a 15 -        5
50% stock solution of the ammonium salt in water to a concentration of about 1,000 to
about 50,000 ppm, more preferably, about 12,000 to about 30,000 ppm. Preferably, the
ammonium salt dilution is prepared immediately before use. When the biocide is formed
in a continuous process, the ammonium salt dilution is preferably prepared online as it
is needed.                                                                                   10
         In an alternative embodiment, the ammonium salt dilution is prepared by
diluting the stock solution of the ammonium salt with a portion of the diluted
hypochlorite solution. This method produces an ammonium salt dilution with a higher
pH since the hypochlorite solution is basic. This is advantageous for some salts, such as
ammonium carbamate, which are more stable at high pH.                                        15
         In some embodiments, the initial pH of the ammonium salt dilution is preferably
at least 9.0, more preferably at least 10.0, even more preferably at least 10.4, and most
preferably at least 10.8. In one preferred embodiment, the ammonium salt dilution
comprises sodium hydroxide.
          The control parameter can be any parameter that has a) a fixed value that will     20
change only if and when the ammonium salt has been exhausted and degradation of the
monochloramine product starts; or b) a variable value that has a maximum, a minimum
or an inflection at the point that the ammonium salt has been exhausted and degradation
of the monochloramine product starts. For example, the value of the control parameter
increases gradually when the hypochlorite to ammonium salt ratio increases as the            25
biocide is produced, but begins to decrease gradually once degradation occurs. At the
end point of production of the biocide, and just before the beginning of degradation a
maximum value is measured. Immediately as degradation starts, the measured values
are decreasing.     Even if the absolute value of the control parameter depends on
conditions such as concentration, water quality, temperature, etc., there will be a relative 30
maximum value measured just before the biocide starts to degrade.
                                             13

         The value of the control parameter must be easy to measure reliably and should
be sensitive to reaction conditions. Preferably, the control parameter is selected from
oxidation-reduction potential (ORP), conductivity and dissolved oxygen saturation.
Both ORP and conductivity reach a minimum at the end point. Conductivity is
essentially a measure of the ion concentration. Induction and total dissolved solids     5
(TDS) are also measures of ion concentration and can be used in place of conductivity
as a control parameter. Any other measure of ion concentration can also be used.
         Oxygen saturation is close to 100% throughout the formation of the biocide.
Once the end point has been reached and degradation of MCA begins, the oxygen
saturation begins to drop as the degrading biocide reacts with oxygen to form NOx        10
species.   The drop in saturation is slow at the beginning, but at a certain point the
saturation falls quickly to zero. An oxygen saturation of less than 90% is indicative of
degradation. The point at which the oxygen saturation begins to drop quickly can be
used to determine the endpoint. In some embodiments, two or more control parameters
selected from ORP, conductivity and oxygen saturation are used. In other embodiments,    15
all of ORP, conductivity and oxygen saturation are used as control parameters. Oxygen
concentration can also be used as a control parameter. Oxygen saturation is preferred
since it accounts for changes in temperature of the solution.
         Reference is now made to Fig. 1, which is a simplified diagram of an apparatus
for producing a biocide in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.       20
         As shown in Fig. 1, water is fed from a source 2, which may be a reservoir, by
pump 4, via a water pipe 6 through parallel flow meters 8 and into a corresponding pair
of branch lines 10 and 12, which connect to a mixer 14 which feeds common outlet pipe
16 leading to medium 18 at the locations 20. Outlet pipe 16 can be equipped with a
siphon breaker 22, and may also be equipped with a control cell 24 to monitor a control  25
parameter, such as pH, ORP, conductivity and oxygen saturation, of the biocide close to
the exit of outlet pipe 16. The water from source 2 may be technical paper mill fresh
water, chemically treated water, soft water, deionized water, and reclaimed process
water.
         Pumps 26 and 28, which may be, for example, pulsatile pumps, peristaltic        30
pumps, venturi pumps or equivalents thereof as are known in the art, pump concentrated
hypochlorite and concentrated ammonium salt, respectively, from reservoirs 30 and 32,
                                            14

respectively, into lines 34 and 36, respectively. Between reservoirs 30 and 32 are
measuring tubes 38 and 40 and valves 42.
        Line 34 contains a junction 44 for directing the flow of hypochlorite either to
water pipe 6 via a junction 46 or to branch line 10 via a junction 48. Ammonium salt is
fed to branch line 12 via a junction 50. These junction pieces may be, for example,         5
simple T-connectors, or they may be in line static mixers designed to facilitate mixing
of the solutions joined therewith.
        When the hypochlorite solution from line 34 is directed to water pipe 6, diluted
hypochlorite is fed to both branch lines 10 and 12 and the result is that the ammonium
salt solution is diluted with the diluted hypochlorite. When the hypochlorite solution      10
from line 34 is fed directly to branch line 10, the ammonium salt solution is diluted in
water. Depending on the concentration of the components in reservoirs 30 and 32, the
rate at which these components are pumped into lines 34 and 36 respectively, and the
rate of flow of water through lines 10 and 12, the hypochlorite oxidant and nitrogen
containing compound or salt thereof may be diluted and mixed in desired proportions.        15
        The reaction product, namely the biocide produced by the reaction of the
hypochlorite and nitrogen-containing compound or salt thereof, may thus be applied
directly from outlet pipe 16 into medium 18, within a brief time after the formation of
the biocide. In alternative embodiments of the invention (not shown), mixer 14 is
replaced by a ingress chamber or a junction piece, in which case the dilutions mix and      20
react as they flow through outlet pipe 16, so that by the time the fluid flowing through
outlet pipe 16 is introduced into medium 18, the biocide has been produced. In these
alternative embodiments of the invention, outlet pipe 16 rather than mixer 14 functions
as a mixing chamber. Thus the control parameter is measured immediately upon mixing.
        Irrespective whether or not a mixer 14 is utilized, the flow through outlet pipe 16 25
should be sufficiently fast that the biocide does not have time to decompose prior to
introduction into the medium 18. The length of pipe 16 can be adjusted to achieve the
desired mixing time. In some embodiments of the invention, the time from which the
diluted hypochlorite and diluted ammonium salt are mixed with each other to form the
biocide until the biocide reaches control cell 24 is 30 seconds or less, such as 12 to 24   30
seconds. In other embodiments, the time is 30 to 90 seconds, such as 45 to 70 seconds.
In further embodiments, the time is 90 seconds to three minutes. In still further
                                            15

embodiments of the invention in which the biocide is stable for more than a few
minutes, the biocide may be stored (e.g. in a reservoir, not shown) prior to application to
medium 18.
        The control of the foregoing valves and pumps may be performed by a control
system (not shown).       Branch lines 10 and 12 include control valves 52 and 54,          5
respectively, for controlling the flow rate of the water therethrough. The control system
may control and monitor the supply of the water from source 2 via an electrical valve
56. Water pipe 6 may include additional control devices, such as a flow meter 58 for
indicating the flow rate or flow volume. The flow of biocide to medium 18 at different
locations 20 can be controlled by valves 60.                                                10
        The apparatus may also be configured with alarms or other signaling devices
that may give feedback to the control system. Control cell 24 in outlet pipe 16 may give
feedback to the control system to enable control of biocide production in response
thereto. The illustrated system may further include a timer (not shown) which is pre
settable to fix both the lengths of time for which the biocide is to be fed via outlet pipe 15
16 to the medium 18 to be treated, as well as the time intervals between such feedings of
the biocide. The control system may also be operative to control the operation of mixer
14.
                                       EXAMPLES                                             20
Example 1
        A solution of ammonium carbonate was formed by dissolving 100 g ammonium
carbonate and 50 g sodium hydroxide in 400 g water. The resulting 18% w/w solution
had a density of 1.094 g/ml. A concentrated solution of sodium hypochlorite was diluted
to a concentration of 5000 ppm. 4.2 ml of the ammonium carbonate solution (9.00             25
mmol carbonate) were mixed with 30 ml diluted hypochlorite and the resulting solution
was titrated with the dilute hypochlorite. The ORP, conductivity and pH of the solution
were monitored throughout the titration. Hereinafter, the procedure including diluting a
concentrated ammonium salt solution in hypochlorite solution will be referred to as the
"new method".                                                                               30
        Since each mole of ammonium carbonate has two ammonium ions, the expected
endpoint of the reaction is at a hypochlorite/carbonate ratio of 2. ORP reached a
                                             16

minimum at a ratio of 1.80 and conductivity reached a minimum at a ratio of 1.72. On
the other hand, the pH maximum was not reached until a ratio of 2.58, well beyond the
endpoint. Thus, it is shown that ORP and conductivity can be used as endpoint
indicators at high pH, while pH is not a suitable indicator under these conditions.
         A solution of ammonium carbonate was formed by dissolving 100 g ammonium        5
carbonate in 400 g water. The resulting 20% w/w solution had a density of 1.137 g/ml.
A concentrated solution of sodium hypochlorite was diluted to a concentration of 7900
ppm. 1.4 ml of the ammonium carbonate solution (3.32 mmol carbonate) were diluted in
50 ml water and the resulting solution was titrated with the dilute hypochlorite. The
ORP, conductivity and pH of the solution were monitored throughout the titration.        10
Hereinafter, the procedure including diluting a concentrated ammonium salt solution in
water will be referred to as the "old method".
        An ORP minimum was observed at a hypochlorite to carbonate ratio of 1.34. A
pH maximum at pH      = 11.73 was observed at a hypochlorite/carbonate ratio of 2.01. No
conductivity minimum was observed. It can be seen from here that while ORP can serve     15
as an indicator even when the ammonium salt dilution is prepared by dilution of an
ammonium salt stock solution in water, a minimum conductivity was not detected and
thus conductivity is not an effective control parameter under these conditions.
Example 2- Ammonium carbamate - new method                                               20
        Ammonium carbamate and ammonium carbonate exist in a pH-dependent
equilibrium, with higher pH favoring ammonium carbamate. Since ammonium
carbamate has one ammonium ion per mole while ammonium carbonate has two
ammonium ions per mole, the amount of hypochlorite needed to fully react with a
solution of ammonium carbamate or ammonium carbonate depends on the mixture              25
formed between these two compounds.
        A 20% stock solution of ammonium carbamate was formed by dissolving 20 g
ammonium carbamate and varying amounts of sodium hydroxide in water. 5.5 ml of the
ammonium carbamate stock solution was diluted with 3200 ppm or 5000 ppm sodium
hypochlorite and the resulting solution was titrated with the remaining hypochlorite.    30
The ORP, conductivity and pH of the solution were monitored throughout the titration.
                                             17

Table 1 shows the reaction conditions for various tests as well as the observed
maximum pH and minimum ORP and conductivity.
Table 1
Molar          ratio  Initial pH     Hypochlorite         Hypochlorite:carbamate ratio
NaOH:carbamate                       concentration  at ORP        at conduct.  at pH
                                                    minimum      minimum       maximum
0                     9.24           3200           2.01          1.60         2.08
0.5                   9.74           3200            1.39         1.27         2.03
1                     10.24          3200           0.96          0.90          1.92
1.5                   12.34          3200
2                     12.42          3200
0.5                   12.07          5000            1.45         1.27         2.17
0.75                  11.95          5000            1.17         0.99          1.89
0.9                   11.87          5000           0.89          0.71          1.70
1.0                   11.80          5000           0.62          0.53          1.41
1.1                   11.80          5000           0.53          0.53          1.41
1.25                  11.74          5000                                       1.24
                                                                                           5
         It can be seen from the results in Table 1 that the amount of hypochlorite needed
to complete the reaction decreases with increasing pH. This is to be expected since as
the pH increases the equilibrium shifts to carbamate and there is less ammonium
available. The ideal hydroxide:carbamate ratio was found to be 0.75. At this ratio, the
minimum ORP and conductivity both occur at a hypochlorite:carbamate ratio of about         10
1. It can be seen in all of the tests that the pH maximum occurs well after the minimum
ORP and conductivity, thus showing the pH is not an effective control parameter under
these conditions.
Example 3- Ammonium carbonate - new method                                                 15
         A 20% stock solution of ammonium carbonate was formed by dissolving 20 g
ammonium carbonate and varying amounts of sodium hydroxide in water. 5.5 ml of the
ammonium carbonate stock solution were diluted with 5000 ppm sodium hypochlorite
and the resulting solution was titrated with the remaining hypochlorite. The ORP,
                                               18

conductivity and pH of the solution were monitored throughout the titration. Table 2
shows the reaction conditions for various tests as well as the observed maximum pH and
minimum ORP and conductivity.
Table 2                                                                                    5
Molar         ratio  Initial pH    Hypochlorite          Hypochlorite:carbonate ratio
NaOH:carbonate                     concentration   at ORP        at conduct.   at pH
                                                   minimum       minimum       maximum
0                    8.97          5000             1.96         2.07          2.19
0.6                  9.35          5000             1.75         1.75          2.19
0.9                  9.79          5000             1.53         1.42          2.08
1.1                  10.05         5000             1.19         1.08          1.94
1.2                  10.12         5000             1.06         0.96          1.92
1.3                  10.30         5000            0.86          0.86          1.82
1.4                  10.52         5000            0.74          0.84          1.69
1.8                  11.97         5000            0.41                        2.19
        It can be seen from the results in Table 2 that the amount of hypochlorite needed
to complete the reaction decreases with increasing pH. This is to be expected since as
the pH increases the equilibrium shifts to carbamate and there is less ammonium
available. The ideal hydroxide:carbonate ratio was found to be 1.1-1.2. At this ratio, the 10
minimum ORP and conductivity both occur at a hypochlorite:carbonate ratio of about 1.
It can be seen in all of the tests that the pH maximum occurs well after the minimum
ORP and conductivity, thus showing the pH is not an effective control parameter under
these conditions.
        That the ideal hydroxide ratio is higher for carbonate than for carbamate is also  15
expected. A 1:1 ratio of hypochlorite:carbonate/carbamate is observed when all of the
species are converted to carbamate. More hydroxide is required for this when starting
with carbonate than when starting with carbamate. In both cases, under very high pH
conditions ORP and conductivity minima were note observed. Reaction with other
ammonium salts at very high pH showed the same trend, indicating that production of        20
the biocide in very high pH is less efficient.
                                              19

     Example 4- Ammonium sulfate - new method
             A 28% stock solution of ammonium sulfate was formed by dissolving 28 g
     ammonium sulfate in 72 ml water. 0.45 ml of the ammonium sulfate stock solution and
     0.25 ml of a 33% NaOH solution were diluted in 30 ml of a 4000 ppm sodium
     hypochlorite solution, and the resulting solution was titrated with the remaining              5
     hypochlorite. The ORP, conductivity, pH and oxygen saturation of the solution were
     monitored throughout the titration.
             An ORP minimum was observed at a hypochlorite/sulfate ratio of 0.78. It was at
     this ratio that the oxygen saturation dropped below 90%. No pH maximum or
     conductivity minimum was observed. It can be seen that oxygen saturation also can              10
     serve as a control parameter. It can also be seen that two control parameters can be used
     together to further confirm the endpoint of the reaction.
             Further tests performed under different conditions show that various control
     parameters can be used when the correct reaction conditions are chosen. Initial pH of
     the diluted sulfate solution is adjusted by adding sodium hydroxide. The reaction              15
     conditions and the results are summarized in Table 3.
     Table 3
Hypochlorite      Initial                    Hypochlorite to carbamate molar ratio
Concentration     pH        at ORP minimum       at conductivity minimum     at drop in 02 saturation
3290 ppm          9.96             0.56                     0.52                       0.52
4380 ppm           12.11           0.63                     0.63                       0.63
5480 ppm           10.61           0.63                     0.55                       0.55
3290 ppm          9.88             0.52                     0.47                       0.57
                                                                                                    20
                                                  20

     Example 5- Ammonium chloride - new method
             A 23% stock solution of ammonium chloride was formed by dissolving 23 g
     ammonium carbonate in 77 g water. 0.43 ml of the ammonium chloride stock solution
     and 0.25 ml of a 33% NaOH solution were diluted in 30 ml of a 4000 ppm sodium
     hypochlorite solution, and the resulting solution was titrated with the remaining               5
     hypochlorite. The ORP, conductivity, pH and oxygen saturation of the solution were
     monitored throughout the titration.
             A conductivity minimum was observed at a hypochlorite/chloride ratio of 0.64.
     It was at this ratio that the oxygen saturation dropped below 90%. No pH maximum or
     ORP minimum was observed. It can be seen that using a combination of several control            10
     parameters ensures that the endpoint of the reaction can be determined by at least one
     control parameter.
             Further tests     were performed     to determine    the  effect  of hypochlorite
     concentration and starting pH. The pH of the diluted ammonium chloride solution was
     adjusted by adding sodium hydroxide. ORP, conductivity and oxygen saturation were               15
     measured during the tests. The test conditions and results are shown in Table 4.
     Table 4
Hypochlorite      Initial                     Hypochlorite to carbamate molar ratio
Concentration     pH         at ORP minimum       at conductivity minimum     at drop in 02 saturation
3290 ppm          8.91              1.12                     1.00                        1.1
3290 ppm           10.43            1.32                                                1.25
5480 ppm          8.99              1.08                    0.92                        0.92
5480 ppm           11.81            0.58                    0.67                        0.58
             These results show that under very high alkalinity the biocide degrades much
     faster, and it is practically impossible to produce 1:1 molar ratio with no degraded            20
     biocide.
     Example 6- Ammonium sulfamate - new method
             A 20% stock solution of ammonium sulfamate was formed by dissolving 50 g
     ammonium sulfamate in 200 g water. 5.0 ml of the ammonium sulfamate stock solution              25
     were diluted in 30 ml of a 5800 ppm sodium hypochlorite solution, and the resulting
                                                  21

     solution was titrated with the remaining hypochlorite. The ORP, conductivity and pH of
     the solution were monitored throughout the titration.
              A conductivity minimum was observed at a hypochlorite/sulfamate ratio of 0.94.
     An ORP minimum was observed at a hypochlorite/sulfamate ratio of 1.20. A pH
     maximum was observed at a hypochlorite/sulfamate ratio of 1.41.         The discrepancy      5
     between the ORP and conductivity measurements may be due to the longer response
     time of the ORP electrode.
              In a further test, 10 g NaOH were added to the sulfamate stock solution. In this
     case, both the conductivity and ORP had minima at a hypochlorite/sulfamate ratio of
     0.94, while the pH maximum occurred only at a hypochlorite/sulfamate ratio of 1.95.          10
     The delay in the pH maximum is expected since the pH was higher due to the addition
     of NaOH and thus the system was less sensitive to the pH change caused by degradation
     of MCA.
     Example 7- Ammonium bromide - old method                                                     15
              1.6 ml of a 35% ammonium bromide stock were diluted in 100 ml of water to
     form a 5500 ppm solution of ammonium bromide. A 12% sodium hypochlorite stock
     was diluted in water to form solutions at concentrations of 3000 ppm (test 1), 4000 ppm
     (test 2) and 5000 ppm (test 3). 50 ml of the ammonium bromide solution was titrated
     with each of the hypochlorite dilutions. In addition, 50 ml of ammonium bromide              20
     containing 0.25 ml of a 33% NaOH solution was titrated with 4000 ppm hypochlorite
     (test 4). The pH, ORP, conductivity and oxygen saturation of the solution were
     monitored throughout the titrations. The results are shown in Table 5.
     Table 5                                                                                      25
Test     Initial                         Hypochlorite to carbamate molar ratio
         pH           at ORP minimum       at conductivity minimum     at drop in oxygen saturation
1         6.47                1.36                   0.74                          0.74
2         6.59                1.07                                                 0.82
3         6.00                1.13                                                 0.82
4         9.46               0.82                                                  0.82
                                                 22

        pH increases slowly as the biocide is produced and decreases sharply when the
degradation is significant. In all four tests, a broad range for the pH maximum was
observed, rather than a sharp point, particularly in test 4 where the starting pH was high
due to the addition of NaOH. The degradation sharp decrease in pH is the easiest to
detect, although the maximum is the equimolar point. When the hypochlorite                 5
concentration is higher, this point becomes easier to detect, if excess NaOH is avoided.
From this it can be seen that it is not sufficient to have a good detection method. The
conditions for producing the biocide, such as hypochlorite concentration, should also be
controlled.
         An ORP minimum was seen in all tests, meaning ORP is universal as a               10
detection and control method. The ORP minimum can form a broad range, rather than a
clear sharp point. The point to control is the drop to lower ORP, even though the sharp
increase in ORP due to degradation of the biocide is easier to detect. A broad minimum
indicates that the reaction conditions for producing the biocide are not ideal. The
biocide is degrading as it is produced, and other conditions should be chosen to produce   15
the biocide effectively.
        A conductivity       minimum     was   observed   only when using       3000  ppm
hypochlorite. In order to identify a conductivity minimum, a decrease in conductivity
must be observed even as hypochlorite, which adds conductivity, is added. If
hypochlorite is added in big steps, the added conductivity of the hypochlorite masks the   20
conductivity minimum, making it impossible to use conductivity for reaction control.
Conductivity thus is less universal as a control parameter than ORP or pH, but it can be
a more useful tool when applied properly.
        Degradation of the biocide results in decrease in oxygen saturation. Since
degradation consumes oxygen, this method of monitoring degradation is the most             25
sensitive and least dependent on reaction conditions. All of the tests showed a drop in
oxygen saturation, first slowly and then a sharp drop to zero. An excess of NaOH slows
the degradation, but does not stop it. The degradation starts at the same value, or even
slightly earlier, but it proceeds with a lower rate.
                                                                                           30
                                              23

                                 FIELD EXPERIMENTS
        The general method for field experiments was a follows: A supply of soft water
is provided. The water supply can be split into two streams before any reagent is added
to supply water (old method), or concentrated sodium hypochlorite is mixed with the        5
supply water to form diluted hypochlorite which is divided into two streams.
Ammonium salt is added to one of the hypochlorite streams containing 10 - 50% of the
total hypochlorite volume, and both streams are mixed in a mixing chamber (new
method).
        The control elements can be placed in a control cell. The cell can be placed       10
immediately after the mixing chamber, in a short pipe reached 12 - 24 seconds after
mixing, or at a farther point, in a long pipe reached 40 - 76 seconds after mixing.
Measurement of pH, ORP, conductivity and oxygen saturation takes place at the control
cell. In addition to monitoring results in the control cell, similar values are also
measured manually at the outlet of the feeding unit, about five minutes after production   15
of the biocide.
        During the process for making the biocide one of the reagent's feed rate is fixed,
while the feed rate of the other reagent is varied. Either hypochlorite or ammonium salt
can be fixed. The variable feed rate can start from a lowest feed rate, and gradually
increase until excess chemical is added (hereinafter "going up") or it can start from the  20
highest feed rate, above the expected reaction end point, and gradually decrease to a low
feed rate, below the expected reaction end point (hereinafter "going down"). The
examples below will show the results of tests varying the defined reaction conditions.
Example 8- Comparison of old and new methods                                               25
        Old method: 38.7 1/h of a 10% sodium hypochlorite solution were mixed with
400 lI/h of water and fed to a reaction chamber. 45.3 1/h of an 18% ammonium
carbamate solution comprising 9% NaOH were mixed with 350 1/h of water and fed to
the reaction chamber. The carbamate flow rate was gradually decreased to 19.3 1/h. The
ORP, conductivity and pH were monitored online in the reaction chamber, and ORP and        30
conductivity were confirmed by manually measuring samples exiting the reaction
chamber.
                                             24

        The minimum conductivity was observed at a carbamate flow rate of 36.0 1/h,
corresponding to a hypochlorite/carbamate ratio of 0.58. The minimum ORP was
observed     at   a   carbamate    flow  rate   of    31.9   1/h,  corresponding   to   a
hypochlorite/carbamate ratio of 0.65. No pH maximum was observed.
        New method: In an alternative study, the 10% sodium hypochlorite solution was     5
mixed with 750 1/h of water. 400 lI/h of the resulting flow was fed to the mixing
chamber, and the remainder was used to dilute the 18% ammonium carbamate solution.
The carbamate solution thus diluted with the hypochlorite solution was also fed to the
mixing chamber. The flow rate of the 18% carbamate solution was varied as in the
previous study. In this case, the minimum conductivity was observed at a carbamate        10
flow rate of 28.3 1/h, corresponding to a hypochlorite/carbamate ratio of 0.74, and the
minimum ORP was observed at a carbamate flow rate of 25.2 1/h, corresponding to a
hypochlorite/carbamate ratio of 0.82. Also in this case, no pH maximum was observed.
        From a comparison of these tests, it can be seen that in the old method, wherein
ammonium salt is diluted in water, the control parameters indicate an end of reaction at  15
a lower hypochlorite/carbamate ratio than in the new method. This suggests that in the
old method, some biocide begins to degrade before the endpoint is reached. In addition,
it was observed that the correlation between the online and manual conductivity
measurements when using the new method, while when using the old method, the
conductivity measurements were unstable. The new method appears to be superior in         20
this case.
        When ammonium carbonate was used as the ammonium salt, the results were
somewhat different. No minimum conductivity was observed using either method, and
the same ORP minimum was observed using both methods. Thus, in the case of
ammonium carbonate there was no difference between the two methods.                       25
Example 9- Variation of feed rates
         Several tests were performed according to the general new method described in
Example 8, except that in some of the tests the ammonium carbamate feed rate was
constant and the hypochlorite feed rate was steadily increased (going up), while in other 30
tests the hypochlorite feed rate was kept constant and the feed of ammonium carbamate
steadily increased     (going up) or decreased      (going down).       The hypochlorite
                                            25

concentration was 6000 ppm. Table 6 summarizes the basic conditions and results for
each test. The percent of the total water flow used to dilute the ammonium carbamate is
given as % flow to ammonium.
Table 6                                                                                  5
  % flow to      Varying      Going    Hypochlorite:carbamate     Hypochlorite:carbamate
 ammonium                                     at min. ORP           at min. conductivity
    46.6       Ammonium         Up                0.66                      0.66
    46.6       Ammonium       Down                0.62                      0.57
    33.3       Ammonium         Up                0.70                      0.59
    33.3       Ammonium       Down                0.62                      0.56
     20        Ammonium         Up                0.70                      0.66
     35       Hypochlorite      Up                1.16
     50       Hypochlorite      Up                1.20
     80       Hypochlorite      Up                1.33
        The results in Table 6 show that a minimum ORP can be detected using all of
the following options: maintaining the ammonium carbamate feed rate fixed and
increasing the hypochlorite feed rate gradually, or maintaining the hypochlorite feed
rate fixed, and increasing or decreasing ammonium carbamate feed rate, though the        10
values for minimum ORP were different. Tests conducted with a fixed feed of
ammonium carbamate and variable feed of hypochlorite show higher ORP minima, at a
molar ratio of hypochlorite:carbamate higher than 1 indicating that some ammonium
carbamate converted to ammonium carbonate during the process.
        Minimum conductivity was clearly seen when tests were conducted with a fixed     15
feed rate of hypochlorite, and a variable feed rate of ammonium carbamate. There was
no significant difference between increasing or decreasing the carbamate feed. No
minimum conductivity was detected when tests were conducted with a fixed feed rate of
ammonium carbamate, and a variable feed of hypochlorite. The increase in conductivity
due to addition of hypochlorite to ammonium carbamate apparently masks the               20
conductivity minimum at the end point. The end point may nonetheless be observed if
the hypochlorite feed is increased very slowly.
                                             26

Example 10- Variation of split of flow
         Several tests were performed according to the general new method described in
Example 8, except that the percent of the total water flow used to dilute the ammonium
carbamate was different in each test. Table 7 summarizes the basic conditions and
results for each test.                                                                    5
              Table 7
              % flow to    Hypochlorite:carbamate     Hypochlorite:carbamate
             ammonium            at min. ORP             at min. conductivity
                 46.6                0.82                        0.73
                  10                 0.82                        0.82
                 46.6                0.62                        0.57
                 33.3                0.62                        0.56
        The results presented in Table 7 show that the best results are measured using
10% of the total volume of water to dilute the ammonium salt, as the measurements for     10
ORP and conductivity are equal.
Example 11- Variation of holding time
         Several tests were performed according to the general new method described in
Example 8, except that the holding time from leaving the mixing chamber until arriving    15
at the control cell was different in each test. The different holding times were achieved
by using different flow rates and using a long or short pipe. Table 8 summarizes the
basic conditions and results for each test.
        The conductivity online and manual minima are similar in most of the tests. The
differences between online and manual ORP readings are much bigger than the               20
differences in conductivity. This highlights one disadvantage of ORP that the electrode
takes time to stabilize. Thus online readings may not be as accurate as manual readings.
The high ORP values at a shortest contact time may prove that the reaction is not
completed at that point yet.
                                                                                          25
                                             27

Table 8
     Pipe           Holding      Hypochlorite:carbamate at     Hypochlorite:carbamate at
                   time (sec)             min. ORP                 min. conductivity
                                    Online        Manual         Online         Manual
     Short             16            0.68           0.75          0.75            0.75
     Long              50            0.67           0.75          0.61            0.67
     Long              50            0.70           0.77          0.85            0.77
     Short             12            0.77           0.77          0.99            0.77
     Short             16            0.68           0.75          0.75            0.75
     Long              50            0.62           0.65          0.57            0.59
     Short             16            0.70           0.77          0.70            0.70
     Short             12            0.70           0.77          0.99            0.99
     Long              40            0.76           0.76          0.76            0.69
        Even though the ORP values depend significantly on the holding time, the molar
ratio shows a lower variability, and the ratio decreases only slightly as the holding time
increases. This shows that a holding time is very useful, and a longer holding time is     5
better than a short holding time.
Example 12- Variation of hypochlorite concentration
        Varying amounts of a 7% sodium hypochlorite solution were mixed with 800 1/h
of water. 400 1/h of the resulting flow was fed to the mixing chamber, and the remainder   10
was used to dilute an 18% ammonium carbamate solution. The carbamate solution thus
diluted with the hypochlorite solution was also fed to the mixing chamber. The stroke of
the ammonium salt pump was varied in order to change the flow rate of the carbamate.
pH, ORP and conductivity were measured online. Conductivity was measured using two
different electrodes, a standard conductivity electrode and an inductive electrode.        15
        The procedure described above was repeated for three different hypochlorite
concentrations, 3700 ppm (test 1), 4400 ppm (test 2) and 4800 ppm (test 3). No pH
maximum was observed in any of the tests. In test 1, no ORP or conductivity minima
were observed.
        In test 2, the ORP minimum occurred at a pump stroke of 50%, corresponding to      20
a carbamate flow rate of 17.3 1/h and a hypochlorite to carbamate ratio of 1.17. Both
                                             28

conductivity electrodes showed minima at a pump stroke of 55%, corresponding to a
carbamate flow rate of 19.6 1/h and a hypochlorite to carbamate ratio of 1.03. In test 3,
the ORP minimum occurred at a pump stroke of 55%, corresponding to a carbamate
flow rate of 19.6 1/h and a hypochlorite to carbamate ratio of 1.14. Both conductivity
electrodes showed minima at a pump stroke of 60%, corresponding to a carbamate flow          5
rate of 22.0 lI/h and a hypochlorite to carbamate ratio of 1.02.
        When ammonium carbamate is added to water, the ORP increases. When
ammonium carbamate is added to hypochlorite and biocide is produced, the ORP
decreases until the hypochlorite is exhausted, at which point no more biocide is
produced and the ORP begins to rise again. When the biocide is produced as described         10
in this Example and the concentration of hypochlorite is low, the trend of ORP mimics
that of addition of ammonium carbamate to water, and no ORP minimum is detected.
Increasing the hypochlorite concentration and producing more biocide will reveal the
expected ORP minimum.
        Conductivity follows a similar trend as ORP. When the concentration of               15
hypochlorite is low and only a small amount of biocide is produced, the decrease in
conductivity due to the production of the biocide is masked by the increase in
conductivity due to the addition of ammonium carbamate. Thus no minimum is
observed. The minimum can be brought out by increasing the concentration of
hypochlorite. In addition, the minimum is more easily detected by keeping the                20
hypochlorite concentration fixed and varying the ammonium concentration.
        In an additional set of tests, the concentration of hypochlorite was the same in
each test, but the fixed flow rate of hypochlorite was different in each test. The flow rate
of ammonium carbamate was varied in each test to find the ideal ratio. The results are
summarized in Table 9. It is again seen that too little hypochlorite in the system leads to  25
masking of the equimolar point defined by the ORP or conductivity minima.
                                             29

 Table 9
Hypochlorite                          Hypochlorite to carbamate molar ratio
flow rate (1/h)     at ORP minimum       at conductivity minimum      at induction minimum
45.6
54                         1.17                     1.03                        1.02
60                         1.14                     1.03                        1.02
          These tests prove that many factors affect the efficiency of producing a
 monochloramine biocide. The temperature, duration of addition and mixing of the
 chemicals, the initial alkalinity, the quality of the ammonium salt and accuracy of its     5
 assumed concentration, the quality of hypochlorite and changes in quality that occur
 during dilution and production of the biocide all may contribute to the efficient
 production of a biocide without degradation. Control is required to produce the biocide
 at its optimal yield, without degradation, under variable conditions.
          Oxidation-reduction potential, ion concentration as measured by conductivity or    10
 induction or TDS, and oxygen saturation can be used to control the biocide production.
 Looking at the results of the tests above, it is seen that sometime there is no ORP
 minimum, or no conductivity minimum, or both are missing. By varying the reaction
 conditions, most importantly the relative concentration of the reagents, the minima can
 be seen or they can disappear.                                                              15
          It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that the present invention is
 not limited to what has been particularly shown and described hereinabove. Rather the
 scope of the present invention includes both combinations and subcombinations of
 various features described hereinabove as well as modifications thereof which would
 occur to a person of skill in the art upon reading the foregoing description and which are  20
 not in the prior art.
                                              30

                                        CLAIMS
       1.      A method of producing a biocide, comprising:
       providing a solution of a hypochlorite oxidant;
       providing a solution of an ammonium salt;
       diluting said solution of an ammonium salt with a portion of said solution of a
hypochlorite oxidant to form an ammonium salt dilution; and
       mixing the remainder of said solution of a hypochlorite oxidant with said
ammonium salt dilution.
       2.      The method according to claim 1, wherein said hypochlorite oxidant is
sodium hypochlorite.
       3.      The method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein said solution of a
hypochlorite oxidant has a concentration from about 1000 to about 20,000 ppm.
       4.      The method according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein said
ammonium salt is selected from ammonium carbonate and ammonium carbamate.
       5.      The method according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein said solution
of an ammonium salt is a stock solution of about 15-50%.
       6.      The method according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein said
ammonium salt dilution has a concentration from about 1,000 to about 50,000 ppm.
       7.      The method according to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein said
ammonium salt dilution further comprises a base.
       8.      The method according to claim 7, wherein said base is sodium
hydroxide.

         9.      The method according to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein said portion
of said solution of a hypochlorite oxidant used to dilute said solution of an ammonium
salt is about 10% to about 50% of said solution of a hypochlorite oxidant.
         10.     The method according to any one of claims I to 9, further comprising:
         monitoring a control parameter that indicates when a maximum yield of said
biocide, which yield is attainable without degradation of said biocide, has been reached.
         11.     The method according to claim 10, wherein said control parameter is
selected from pH, ORP, conductivity, induction and oxygen saturation.
         12.     The method according to claim 10 or 11, wherein said method
comprises:
         adding a plurality of discrete amounts of said solution of a hypochlorite oxidant
to said ammonium salt dilution under mixing conditions; and
         measuring said control parameter after the addition of each discrete amount of
said solution of a hypochlorite oxidant.
         13.     The method according to claim 10 or 11, wherein said method
comprises:
         mixing a stream of a hypochlorite solution with a stream of said ammonium salt
dilution in a mixing chamber at a starting ratio;
         holding the flow rate of one of said streams constant and gradually increasing or
decreasing the flow rate of the other of said streams; and
         monitoring the value of said control parameter in a stream leaving said mixing
chamber.
         14.     Apparatus for producing a biocide, comprising:
         a reservoir containing a solution of a hypochlorite oxidant;
         a reservoir containing a solution of an ammonium salt;
         a water source;
         a conduit for mixing said solution of a hypochlorite oxidant solution with said
water to form a hypochlorite dilution;

         a conduit for mixing said solution of an ammonium salt with a portion of said
hypochlorite dilution to form an ammonium salt dilution; and
         a mixing chamber for mixing a portion of said hypochlorite dilution with said
ammonium salt dilution to form a biocide.
         15.     The apparatus according to claim 14, wherein said hypochlorite oxidant
is sodium hypochlorite.
         16.     The apparatus according to claim 14 or 15, wherein said ammonium salt
is selected from ammonium carbonate and ammonium carbamate.
         17.     The apparatus according to any one of claims 14 to 16, wherein said
portion of said hypochlorite dilution mixed with said solution of an ammonium salt is
about 10% to about 50% of said solution of a hypochlorite oxidant.
         18.     The apparatus according to any one of claims 14 to 17, further
         comprising:
         a control cell for monitoring a control parameter that indicates when a maximum
yield of said biocide, which yield is attainable without degradation of said biocide, has
been reached.
         19.     The apparatus according to claim 18, wherein said control parameter is
selected from pH, ORP, conductivity, induction and oxygen saturation.
         20.     The apparatus according to claim 18 or 19, further comprising a control
unit configured to:
         hold the flow rate of one of said hypochlorite dilution and said ammonium salt
dilution constant and gradually increase or decrease the flow rate of the other one of
said hypochlorite dilution and said ammonium salt dilution;
         monitor the value of said control parameter of said biocide; and
         adjust the flow rate of said hypochlorite oxidant or said ammonium salt to attain
a maximum yield of said biocide, which yield is attainable without degradation of said
biocide.
                                              VA

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
