                                                    ABSTRACT
                             A photovoltaic cell assembly suitable for use in a dense array
  concentrated photovoltaic cell module includes a plurality of photovoltaic cells 7
5 mounted on a substrate and a by-pass diode 53 associated with each cell to allow the
  cell to be by-passed in the electrical circuit in the event that the cell fails or has low
  illumination. The diodes are positioned in the shadows of the cells. The diodes provide
  direct pathways for heat and electricity from the cells to the substrate.
  5116719_1 (GHMatters) P92701.PCT

                                                          -1
                                                  A CELL MODULE
                TECHNICAL FIELD
                The present invention relates to a photovoltaic cell module.
 5              The present invention relates particularly to a photovoltaic cell module that
   includes a photovoltaic cell assembly that includes an array of photovoltaic cells that
   are connected together as a series circuit and is used in a concentrated solar radiation
   based electrical power generating system. The present invention is described
   hereinafter, by way of example, in the context of this application but is not limited to
10 this application.
                Solar radiation-based electrical power generating systems typically include:
                (a)           a receiver that includes an array of photovoltaic cells for converting solar
   energy into electrical energy, and
                (b)           a concentrator for concentrating solar radiation onto the photovoltaic
15 cells of the receiver.
                More particularly, the present invention provides a photovoltaic cell module for
   a receiver of a solar radiation-based electrical power generating system comprising:
                (a)           a photovoltaic cell assembly that includes at least one photovoltaic cell
   having an exposed surface for solar radiation;
20              (b)           an electrical connection for transferring an electrical energy output of the
   photovoltaic cell assembly to an output electrical circuit, and
                (c)           an assembly for extracting heat from the photovoltaic cell, the assembly
   comprising a coolant chamber positioned behind the exposed surface of the
   photovoltaic cell assembly having a coolant inlet and a coolant outlet for coolant to be
25 supplied into the chamber and for heated coolant to be removed from the chamber.
                More particularly, the present invention relates to a photovoltaic cell assembly
   for a photovoltaic cell module.
                More particularly, the present invention relates to a dense array concentrated
   photovoltaic cell module and to a photovoltaic cell assembly for the module. The term
30 "dense array concentrated photovoltaic cell module", hereinafter referred to a dense
   array CPV module, is understood herein to mean a close packed array of photovoltaic
   5116719_1 (GHMatters) P92701.PCT

                                                   -2
   cells that have an exposed surface area that can receive solar radiation directly onto the
   cells of at least 90% of the total exposed surface area of the module. Typically at least
   95%, more typically at least 97%, and more typically again at least 98% of the total
   exposed surface area of the module.
 5              The present invention is applicable particularly, although by no means
   exclusively, to large scale solar radiation-based electrical power generating systems of
   the type described above that are capable of producing substantial amounts of electrical
   power ready for conditioning to at least 20kW of standard 3 phase 415 volt AC power.
                End-use applications for such large scale power generating systems include
10 remote area power supply for isolated grids, mains grid-connected power, water
   pumping, telecommunications, crude oil pumping, water purification, and hydrogen
   generation.
                BACKGROUND ART
15
                One significant issue associated with the development of commercially viable
   solar radiation-based electrical power generating systems of the type described above is
   energy conversion efficiency.
                Energy conversion efficiency is a very strong driver of the economics of solar
20 power systems. When a conversion efficiency increase can be achieved at a percentage
   system cost increase which is less than the percentage efficiency increase, the
   commercial prospects for the solar power system are improved.
                Current indications are that the present invention can achieve an efficiency
   increase of the order of 5% at a system cost increase of less than 0.5%.
25              Two issues that have a negative impact on energy conversion efficiency in a
   solar radiation receiver are (a) dead space and (b) flux variation.
                The issue of dead space relates to the ratio of active photovoltaic cell area versus
   the total module area. This ratio is the Active Cell Area Ratio (ACAR). Dense array
   systems known to the applicant typically have ACARs of only 65% to 95%.
30              Challenges that have limited the ACARs of prior art arrangements known to the
   applicant include:
   5116719_1 (GHMatters) P92701.PCT

                                                        -3
                (a)           a space limitation and complexity of interconnection of adjacent
   photovoltaic cells to form a circuit;
                (b)           the 'bus bar' connection on the top of cells causing shading of the cells
   and reducing the effective active area;
 5              (c)         the diode connection; and.
                (d)         the area occupied by an edge seal which provides for safety and reliability
                The issue of flux variation relates to the arrangement and characteristics of the
   cells and modules in a receiver (including cell size and connections between cells) and
   to the flux distribution impinging on the receiver relating to the collectors for reflecting
10 solar radiation to the receiver. The variation in flux can also be time-based and,
   typically, is a more significant issue with collectors that reflect and concentrate solar
   radiation, such as heliostat-based concentration systems.
                The applicant has considered the issues of dead space and flux variation in
   relation to dense array CPV module design.
15              The applicant decided that it is desirable to have a module that has a high ACAR
   and a high voltage. The high ACAR results in high conversion efficiency in a module
   because of the greater percentage of active cell area exposed to radiation for a given
   module size. This is a driver for larger cells with a minimum number of connectors,
   diodes and a small edge seal. High voltage allows maximum parallel connections of
20 modules, which results in high average module efficiency across a receiver which has a
   plurality of modules subject to variable flux. This is a driver for smaller cells. These
   issues therefore are opposing issues.
                Known photovoltaic cells which are used in dense array CPV modules are
   typically low voltage (0.5 to 6 V). Thus, many cells must be connected in series to
25 achieve a desirable high voltage (typically 200 to 1000 V). This means the cells must
   be relatively small and there are many connections in the module. This means the
   connections must consume a minimum of (active area) module space, otherwise the
   advantage gained will be lost due to the dead space taken up by the increased number of
   connections.
   5116719_1 (GHMatters) P92701.PCT

                                                          -4
                The many hundreds of cells and connections must also be very reliable or have a
   means to bypass a failed cell or connection so that the effect due to its failure is
   minimised.
                It has been proposed in the non-patent literature to use a "shingle" arrangement
 5 of a string of photovoltaic cells in a module rather than a more standard end-to-end
   arrangement of cells. The proposed prior art shingle arrangement includes a leading
   edge of one photovoltaic cell overlapping a trailing edge of a successive cell in a short
   straight string of cells, to cover an inactive "bus bar" area of these successive cells. The
   proposed prior art shingle arrangement potentially results in a high ACAR in view of
10 the cell overlap with resultant bad heat transfer.
                The applicant has found in research and development work that when cells are
   appropriately mounted, the shingle approach may be practical for a single short straight
   length string of cells but may not be a solution for large scale solar radiation-based
   electrical power generating systems which require large areas of a large number of
15 active cells to be interconnected in one or more lines of cells in order to achieve a
   required module voltage.
                More specifically, limitations/challenges of the known shingle arrangement
   approach that have been identified by the applicant include:
                (a)           low voltage due to short string length,
20              (b)           low power due to short string length,
                (c)           high mechanical strain due to the monolithic nature of overlapping
   arrangement effectively increasing size of the cell physical structure in one direction,
                (d)           poor heat transfer due to limited contact of sloped cell with a cooled
   substrate (such as a copper pad) to which it is usually attached,
25              (e)          difficulties changing direction of a string; and.
                (f)         cost of interconnects and or modified cells (for non-shingle
   arrangements).
                In summary, there is a need for a shingle arrangement that includes bypass
   diodes and a simple "cross" connection so that a low strain serpentine string can cover a
30 2 dimensional array with minimal dead space and excellent heat transfer to minimise
   cell temperature for use in concentrated light. In more general terms, not confined to
   5116719_1 (GHMatters) P92701.PCT

                                                   -5
   shingle arrangements, there is a need for an alternative photovoltaic cell assembly that
   is suitable for use in a dense array CPV module to the currently available assemblies.
                The above description is not to be taken as an admission of the common general
   knowledge in Australia or elsewhere.
 5
                SUMMARY OF THE DISCLOSURE
                The applicant has realized after considering the results of research and
   development work that in order to optimize the shingle arrangement approach for string
10 cell module design to a practical level, (a) many short straight strings of cells must be
   interconnected and the thermal connection between the cells and a cooled substrate that
   supports the cells in a module must be maintained and (b) bypass diodes are required in
   any string arrangement of cells, whether the string be a shingle arrangement or an end
   to-end (co-planar) arrangement of cells to allow the module to continue to function in
15 the event that there is a failure of one or more than one of the photovoltaic cells in a
   module, (c) in a dense array CPV module this interconnection of cells must be achieved
   with minimal "dead space",(d) and an edge seal is required which is substantial enough
   to provide weather protection for the cells and meet safety requirements and also cause
   minimum dead space.
20              In broad terms, the present invention provides a photovoltaic cell assembly
   suitable for use in a dense array concentrated photovoltaic cell module includes a
   plurality of photovoltaic cells mounted on a substrate and a by-pass diode associated
   with each cell to allow the cell to be by-passed in the electrical circuit in the event that
   the cell fails or has low illumination. The diodes are positioned in the shadows of the
25 cells. The diodes provide direct pathways for heat and electricity from the cells to the
   substrate.
                In broad terms, the present invention provides a photovoltaic cell assembly that
   is suitable for use in a dense array concentrated photovoltaic cell module, the assembly
   including a plurality of photovoltaic cells mounted on a substrate, each cell having an
30 exposed surface for acceptance of solar radiation, the cells being arranged in a dense
   array that includes at least one string of cells which are electrically connected together
   5116719_1 (GHMatters) P92701.PCT

                                                  -6
   and form a series electrical circuit, and each string including a plurality of straight
   lengths of cells that form rows, with the end cell of one row of cells being electrically
   connected to the cell at the beginning of a successive row of cells, and a by-pass diode
   associated with each cell to allow the cell to be by-passed in the electrical circuit in the
 5 event that the cell fails or has low illumination, the diodes being positioned in the
   shadows of the cells, and the diodes providing direct pathways for heat and electricity
   from the cells to the substrate.
                One terminal of each diode may be directly in contact electrically and thermally
   with the substrate and the other terminal of each diode may be directly in contact
10 electrically and thermally with the neighbouring cell.
                The dense array may cover more than 95% of the assembly with active cell area.
                The substrate may include a plurality of metallised elements that form mounting
   pads for cells, each cell being mounted on one of the metallised elements, each
   metallised element including a section that extends under a neighbouring (such as a
15 preceding) cell in the electrical circuit, the bypass diode for the cell being positioned
   beneath and in the shadow of the preceding cell and mounted on the section of the
   metallised element that extends under the neighbouring cell, the diode being electrically
   and thermally connected to the substrate via the section of the metallised element, and
   the diode being electrically connected to the neighbouring cell.
20              When the diode is electrically and thermally connected to the substrate via the
   section of the metallised element and the diode is electrically connected to the
   neighbouring cell, it follows that the terminals of the diode are spaced apart with one
   terminal being closer to the cell than the other terminal.
                The above-described position of the diode means that no other components are
25 required to connect the by-pass diode to form a by-pass circuit for the cell.
                The cells may be mounted to the substrate in a shingle arrangement.
                The contours of the metalised elements may follow the profile of the underside
   of the shingled cells such that at least 90%, typically 95%, of each cell is maintained in
   thermal contact with the substrate.
   5116719_1 (GHMatters) P92701.PCT

                                                   -7
                The three dimensionality of the metallised zone/substrate due to the shingle
   arrangement provides space for locating the diode under the neighbouring cell, while
   allowing the cells to be positioned in the densely packed array.
                The metallised elements may have an inclined upper surface that mounts the
 5 cells at an angle to the substrate so as to allow overlapping of the cells to form the
   shingle arrangement.
                Typically, the metallised elements are 100 microns high at one end.
                Typically, the metallised elements are 400 microns high at the other end.
                The metallised elements may form a saw tooth profile when viewed in cross
10 section through the cell along a row of cells.
                The metallised elements may be electrically separated from each other.
                The section of the metallised element that extends under the preceding cell may
   be in the form of a tongue.
                The aspect ratio of the width to the height of each diode may be 5:1 to 10:1. The
15 aspect ratio facilitates the electrical connection to the associated cells.
                The entire one side of the by-pass diode may be connected to the substrate,
   thereby maximising heat transfer to the substrate.
                The diode may be made of silicon or other high thermal conductivity material.
                The substrate may be an electrical insulator and a thermal conductor.
20              The substrate may be a ceramic material.
                The substrate may be aluminium nitride or silicon nitride.
                The cells may be soldered to the metallised elements.
                The metallised elements may be directly bonded to the substrate.
                The assembly may include a cross-connection element that electrically connects
25 together the end of one row and the beginning of a successive row of cells.
                The cross-connect element may be in the form of a simple flat strip since the
   shingle array allows for connection of the top of the previous cell to the bottom of the
   next cell to be done in a single plane.
                The cross-connect element may be a ribbon or a strip of metal.
30              The metal may be any suitable metal, such as silver.
                The assembly may include an edge seal.
   5116719_1 (GHMatters) P92701.PCT

                                                  -8
                The area occupied by the edge seal may be less than 4% of the total module
   area.
                There is a minimum thickness for an edge seal to be effective, and in order to
   maximise ACAR it is necessary to minimise the dead space occupied by the edge seal.
 5 The module should thus be large enough to minimise the percentage covered by the
   edge seal. There is a practical limit the size of a module, mostly because of
   manufacturing yield.
                For a module of at least 100 mm by 100 mm, an edge seal of up to 1 mm, which
   is a substantial, will give rise to less than 4% dead space.
10              The assembly may comprise electrical input and output terminals at the
   perimeter of the assembly.
                In situations where the photovoltaic cell assembly is other than a shingle
   arrangement, the present invention also provides a photovoltaic cell assembly that is
   suitable for use in a dense array concentrated photovoltaic cell module, the assembly
15 including a plurality of photovoltaic cells mounted on a substrate, each cell having an
   exposed surface for receiving solar radiation, the cells being arranged in a dense array
   that includes at least one string of cells which are electrically connected together and
   form a series electrical circuit and being physically arranged, a by-pass diode associated
   with each cell to allow the cell to be isolated from the electrical circuit in the event that
20 the cell fails, and the diodes being positioned in the shadows of the cells, and a Z
   shaped connection electrically connecting together successive cells, the Z-shaped
   connection having a pair of spaced-apart parallel arms and an interconnecting web, with
   the lower arm of each connector being connected to an under surface of a leading end of
   one cell and the upper arm of each connector being connected to an upper surface of a
25 trailing end of a successive cell, and the bypass diode of the successive cell being
   located below the one cell and being connected to the lower arm of the connector, the
   assembly thereby connecting successive cells in series and simultaneously providing
   parallel connection to the diode with the successive cell, thereby protecting that cell.
                This arrangement allows an appropriate positioning of the diodes below the cells
30 and also provides the parallel connection of the diode. This placement of the diodes
   below the cells also makes it possible to maximize the ACAR (active area ratio).
   5116719_1 (GHMatters) P92701.PCT

                                                         -9
                The length of the rows of the dense array of cells is set such that the mechanical
   strain is held to within practical limits, while allowing maximum voltage.
                The present invention also provides a dense array concentrated photovoltaic cell
   module that includes a plurality of the photovoltaic cell assemblies described above
 5 stacked together in side by side relationship in an array to form a receiver where the
   module area of the module area is greater than 95% of the array area.
                The present invention also provides a method of manufacturing a substrate for a
   shingle arrangement of the above-described photovoltaic cell assembly includes the
   following steps:
10              (a)           etching a piece of a metal-coated ceramic material to create required gaps
   in the metal layer on one side of the piece, thereby leaving metal pads for mounting
   cells in a serpentine arrangement on that side of the piece;
                (b)           machining the surface of the metal pads to form metallised elements that
   are adapted to function as mounting pads having a required sawtooth profile to mount
15 cells (typically 100 microns high at one end and typically 400 microns high at the other
   end); and
                (c)           completing the manufacture of the substrate by applying a constant
   thickness of solder (typically 50-100 microns) or other suitable bonding medium, for
   example by screen printing, to the metallised elements.
20
                BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
                The present invention is described further by way of example only with
   reference to the accompanying drawings of which:
25              Figure 1 is a perspective view of one embodiment of a dense array concentrated
   photovoltaic cell module in accordance with the present invention that is suitable for
   use in a receiver of a solar radiation-based electric power generating system, with the
   module including one embodiment of a photovoltaic cell assembly in accordance with
   the present invention;
30              Figure 2 is another perspective view of the module shown in Figure 1;
   5116719_1 (GHMatters) P92701.PCT

                                                  - 10
                Figure 3 is an exploded view of the module shown in Figures 1 and 2 which
   illustrates the components of the module, including the embodiment of the photovoltaic
   cell assembly;
                Figure 4 is a top plan view of the photovoltaic assembly of the dense array
 5 concentrated photovoltaic cell module shown in Figures 1 to 3;
                Figure 5 is an enlarged top plan view of the circled area of Figure 4;
                Figure 6 is top plan view of Figure 4, with the top cover and the photovoltaic
   cells of the photovoltaic assembly removed to reveal the layout of the upper metalized
   layer of the substrate of the assembly;
10              Figure 7 is a top plan view of another embodiment of a photovoltaic cell
   assembly in accordance with the present invention with the top cover and the
   photovoltaic cells removed to reveal the layout of the upper metalized layer of the
   substrate of the assembly;
                Figure 8 is a cross-section along the line 8-8 of Figure 6;
15              Figure 9 is a top plan view of four of the sections of the upper metalized layer of
   the substrate of the assembly shown in Figure 6, with photovoltaic cells positioned on
   the upper metallised layer,
                Figure 10 is a cross-section along the line 10-10 of Figure 9, which also includes
   the photovoltaic cells positioned on the upper metalized layer,
20              Figure 11 is an enlargement of the rectangular box referred to as "Detail A" in
   Figure 10,
                Figure 12 is a side view of the ends of two adjacent rows of cells identified by
   the bracket "9" in Figure 6 which illustrates the electrical cross-connection between the
   rows of photovoltaic cells at one end,
25              Figure 13 is a top plan view of another embodiment of a dense array
   concentrated photovoltaic cell module in accordance with the present invention that is
   suitable for use in a receiver of a solar radiation-based electric power generating system,
   with the module including another embodiment of a photovoltaic cell assembly in
   accordance with the present invention;
30              Figure 14 is a cross-section along the line 14-14 in Figure 13;
   5116719_1 (GHMatters) P92701.PCT

                                                  - 11
                Figure 15 is an enlargement of the rectangular box referred to as "Detail C" in
   Figure 14,
                Figure 16 is a cross-section along the line 16-16 in Figure 13;
                Figure 17 is an enlargement of the rectangular box referred to as "Detail A" in
 5 Figure 16,
                Figure 18 is a top plan view of another embodiment of a dense array
   concentrated photovoltaic cell module in accordance with the present invention that is
   suitable for use in a receiver of a solar radiation-based electric power generating system,
   with the module including another embodiment of a photovoltaic cell assembly in
10 accordance with the present invention, with the top cover and the photovoltaic cells
   removed to reveal the layout of the upper metalized layer of the substrate of the
   assembly;
                Figure 19 is an enlargement of the rectangular box referred to as "Detail A" in
   Figure 18; and
15              Figure 20 is a cross-section along the line 20-20 in Figure 19.
                DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
                The invention is a photovoltaic cell assembly that is suitable for use in a
20 "stackable" dense array CPV module.
                Each of the embodiments of the photovoltaic cell assembly of the invention
   shown in Figures 1 to 17, include a plurality of photovoltaic cells arranged in a string of
   cells in a shingle arrangement and forming a 2 dimensional array of rows of cells
   interconnected at the ends of the rows, with the assembly having a high percentage of
25 active area, a bypass diode for every cell, minimum mechanical strain for the cells, a
   long enough string of cells to provide a sufficiently high voltage to allow optimal
   parallel connection of the strings, and an effective edge seal which occupies a low
   percentage of the total module area.
                The embodiment of the present invention shown in Figures 18 to 20, which is
30 not the only other embodiment of the invention, is not a shingle arrangement but relies
   5116719_1 (GHMatters) P92701.PCT

                                                 - 12
   on Z-connections between successive cells arranged in a string and otherwise has the
   above-described features of the Figures 1 to 17 embodiments.
                The embodiments of the photovoltaic cell assembly of the invention can achieve
   an ACAR approaching 100% for a module with a cost reduction due to the elimination
 5 of most of the complicated interconnections or the need to use modified cells which cost
   more. More particularly, the embodiments of the photovoltaic cell assembly of the
   present invention have sufficient cells and attendant connections between cells to
   produce a high total voltage, and individual diode protection for every cell and the
   connections between cells, while minimizing the loss of active area in the dense array
10 CPV module, i.e. a maximised ACAR. When such a module is "stacked" in a 2
   dimensional array to form a receiver the overall active area may be greater than 95%.
                The opportunity for connection protection via the by-pass diode arrangement of
   the embodiments of the photovoltaic cell assembly of the invention is a significant
   feature of the invention and is a feature that is not confined to shingle arrangements of
15 cells. Dense array CPV modules of the present invention can output full receiver
   voltage and can be connected in parallel with other dense array CPV modules in an
   array and eliminate most of the power loss due to a series connection of dense array
   CPV modules with different levels of illumination (the output of each module in a string
   is typically limited to the power of the lowest module in a string).
20              Figures 1 to 3 show an embodiment of a module 3 that is suitable for use in a
   solar radiation-based electric power generating system.
                By way of example, such a system includes a solar radiation concentrator in the
   form of a concentrating array of mirrors (not shown) that reflects solar radiation that is
   incident on the mirrors towards a solar radiation receiver (not shown) in the form of a
25 plurality of photovoltaic cells that are arranged in modules. An electrical circuit (not
   shown) transfers the electrical energy output of the photovoltaic cells to an inverter for
   end-use application of the electrical energy. End-use applications include remote area
   power supply for isolated grids, mains grid-connected power, water pumping,
   telecommunications, crude oil pumping, water purification, and hydrogen generation.
30              The receiver may be the receiver that is described and claimed in International
   application PCT/AU2011/001245 entitled "Receiver" in the name of the applicant. The
   5116719_1 (GHMatters) P92701.PCT

                                                         - 13
   disclosure in the specification of the International application is incorporated herein by
   cross-reference.
                The embodiment of the module 3 shown in Figures 1 to 3 is described and
   claimed in International application PCT/AU2011/001246 entitled "Cell Module" in the
 5 name of the applicant. The disclosure in the specification of the International
   application is incorporated herein by cross-reference.
                With reference to Figures 1 to 3, the module 3 includes:
                (a)           a photovoltaic cell assembly generally identified by the numeral 5 that
   includes a plurality of photovoltaic cells 7 (Figures 1 and 3) having an exposed surface
10 for acceptance of solar radiation;
                (b)           electrical connections 49 (not shown in these Figures but shown in other
   Figures such as Figures 6 and 8) for transferring electrical energy output of the
   photovoltaic cell assembly 5 to an output electrical circuit (not shown),
                (c)           an assembly generally identified by the numeral 11 (Figures 1 and 3) for
15 extracting heat from the photovoltaic cell;
                (d)           a control system (not shown) for controlling the system; and
                (e)           a monitoring system (not shown) for monitoring the condition of
   components of the system.
                The electrical connections 49 for the module 3 are in the form of electrical leads
20 (see Figures 6 and 8) that extend through an opening (not shown) in the module 3.
                The control system and the monitoring system may be any suitable systems.
   The selection of these systems is not a key consideration in relation to the invention.
                The heat extraction assembly 11 comprises a coolant chamber 41 positioned
   behind the exposed surface of the photovoltaic cell assembly 5. The coolant chamber
25 41 has a coolant inlet 21 and a coolant outlet 23 for coolant (typically water) to be
   supplied into the chamber 41 and for heated coolant to be removed from the chamber
   41. The coolant chamber 41 is defined by (a) a housing that comprises a base 27 and
   side walls 29 extending from the base 27 and (b) the photovoltaic cell assembly 5
   connected to upper ends of the side walls 29 of the housing.
30              The photovoltaic cell assembly 5 comprises a support substrate on which the
   photovoltaic cells 7 are secured. As can best be seen in Figure 3, the substrate is a
   5116719_1 (GHMatters) P92701.PCT

                                                  - 14
   multiple layer substrate that includes (a) a layer 13 of an electrical insulation material,
   such as a ceramic material and (b) top and bottom metalized layers 15 and 17
   respectively of a metal or a metal-containing material on opposite top and bottom faces
   of the electrical insulation material layer 13 and (c) an optically suitable protective glass
 5 top cover 19 that is on the photovoltaic cells 7. The layers 13, 15, 17 of the substrate
   are secured together by any suitable means.
                The photovoltaic cells 7 are secured (for example thermally and electrically
   bonded) to the metalized layer 15 of the substrate. The other metalized layer 17 of the
   substrate is secured (for example thermally bonded) to the heat extraction assembly 11.
10              Figure 4 is a top plan view of the photovoltaic assembly 5 of the module shown
   in Figures 1 to 3. Figure 6 is the top plan view of the photovoltaic assembly 5 with the
   top cover 19 and the photovoltaic cells 7 removed to reveal the layout of the upper
   metalized layer 17 of the substrate of the assembly. Figures 5 and 6 and 8 to 12 show
   the assembly in more detail. Figures 9 to 12 include photovoltaic cells 7 positioned on
15 the metallised layer 17.
                As can best be seen in Figures 1 and 4, the cells 7 of the photovoltaic assembly 5
   are arranged in a dense array that includes a string of cells 7 which are electrically
   connected together and form a series electrical circuit. The string includes a plurality of
   straight lengths of cells 7 that form rows, with the end cell of one row of cells being
20 electrically connected to the cell at the start of a successive row of cells. The cells 7 in
   each row of cells are in a shingle pattern. The arrangement of the cells 7 may be
   described as a serpentine arrangement.
                With reference to Figure 6, the series electrical circuit runs from the terminal
   end of lead 49 at the bottom right comer of Figure 6 along the first row to the end of
25 that row on the bottom right comer of the Figure and across to the first cell 7 in the
   adjacent row (i.e. upwardly as viewed in the Figure) and along that row to the end of the
   row and across to the first cell 7 in the next row, and so on until the series circuit
   reaches the terminal end of the lead 49 at the top right corner of the Figure. The series
   circuit is indicated by the arrowed line in the Figure.
30              The upper metallised layer 15 of the substrate is formed to receive and support
   the cells 7 in the shingle pattern. With reference to Figures 4 and 6 to 11, the upper
   5116719_1 (GHMatters) P92701.PCT

                                                - 15
   metallised layer 17 comprises a plurality of wedge-shaped mounting pads 51 in each
   row. The arrangement of the wedge-shaped mounting pads 51 in each row may be
   described as a sawtooth profile as viewed in the cross-section shown in Figure 8. The
   mounting pads 51 are electrically separated from each other.
 5              The mounting pads 51 are arranged so that the first mounting pad 41 in each row
   is formed so that the thin end of the wedge-shaped mounting pad 51 is at the start of the
   row. The mounting pads 51 are also arranged so that the last mounting pad 41 in each
   row is formed so that the thick end of the wedge-shaped mounting pad 51 is at the end
   of the row. This arrangement of the mounting pads 51 is evident from Figure 12, which
10 is a side view of the ends of two adjacent rows of cells 7. The other mounting pads 51 in
   each row are formed in the same alignment, i.e. with the thin end of the pad being the
   leading end and the thick end of each pad being the trailing end. This forms the saw
   tooth profile mentioned above. It can be appreciated that with this arrangement the cells
   7 are inclined upwardly along the length of each row, with the angle being determined
15 by the angle of the wedge-shaped mounting pads 51. The angle is selected so that the
   cells 7 are arranged in overlapping relationship, with the trailing end of one cell 7 in
   each row overlapping the leading end of the next successive cell 7 in each row.
   Typically, the metallised elements are 100 microns high at one end. Typically, the
   metallised elements are 400 microns high at the other end.
20              Figure 9 shows four successive wedge-shaped mounting pads 51 that form part
   of one row of the upper metallised layer 17 of the substrate. The mounting pads 51 are
   shown in dotted outline. With reference to Figure 9, each mounting pad 51 has a
   generally square shape, with a tongue 57 extending from a central section of a leading
   end of the pad 51 (i.e. on the right side of the pad 51 as viewed in the Figure) and a
25 rebate 59 extending from a central section of a trailing end of the pad 51 (i.e. on the left
   of the pad as viewed in the Figure). It is clear from Figure 9 that the mounting pads 51
   are formed so that the tongues 57 extend into the rebates 59. The tongues 57 are
   sections of the mounting pads 51 that extend under a neighbouring (i.e. a preceding) cell
   in the electrical circuit.
30              The photovoltaic cell assembly 5 includes a silicon (or any other suitable) by
   pass diode 53 associated with each cell 7 to allow the cell 7 to be by-passed in the
   5116719_1 (GHMatters) P92701.PCT

                                                  - 16
   electrical circuit in the event that the cell 7 fails or is under illuminated. As can best be
   seen in Figure 11, the diodes 53 are positioned in the shadows of the cells 7. The diodes
   53 provide direct pathways for heat and electricity from the cells 7 to the substrate. The
   shingle arrangement of the cells 7 provides space for locating the diode 53 associated
 5 with each cell 7 under the preceding cell 7, while allowing the cells 7 to be positioned in
   the densely packed array.
                Each diode 53 is positioned beneath and in the shadow of the preceding cell 7
   and is mounted on the tongue 57 of the mounting pad 51 that extends under the
   preceding cell. The diode 53 is electrically and thermally connected to the substrate via
10 the tongue 57 of the mounting pad 51. In addition, the diode 53 is electrically and
   thermally connected to the preceding cell 7. With reference to Figure 11, one terminal
   55 of each diode 53 is directly in contact electrically and thermally with the tongue 57
   of the mounting pad 51 of the cell 7 with which the diode 53 is associated, and the other
   terminal 59 of each diode 53 is directly in contact electrically and thermally with the
15 preceding cell 7, i.e. the cell 7 under which the diode 53 is located. With this
   arrangement, if there is a short circuit in a cell 7, the diode 53 associated with the diode
   forms a current path from the preceding cell 7 through the mounting pad 51 on which
   the short-circuited cell 7 is mounted to the next cell 7 in the row of cells. This
   arrangement also provides an effective cooling path through the thin highly thermally
20 conductive diode and thus maintaining a low temperature for that portion of the cell
   which is connected to the top of the diode 53.
                With reference to Figure 12, the end of one row of cells 7 is electrically
   connected to the start of an adjacent row of cells 7 via a cross-connect element 61 in the
   form of a ribbon or a shim of a strip of metal.
25              Figure 7 is a top plan view of another embodiment of a photovoltaic cell
   assembly in accordance with the present invention with the top cover and the
   photovoltaic cells removed to reveal the layout of the upper metalized layer of the
   substrate of the assembly and additional features of the assembly, including connector
   terminals.
30              The Figure 7 embodiment is substantially the same as the embodiment of the
   photovoltaic cell assembly shown in Figures 4 to 6 and 8 to 12.
   5116719_1 (GHMatters) P92701.PCT

                                                   - 17
                The main difference between the embodiments is the arrangement of the series
   electrical circuits. In the Figure 7 embodiment the series circuit runs from the terminal
   end of lead 49 near the top left corner of Figure 7 along the row that includes the
   terminal end to the end of that row and across to the first cell in the adjacent row and
 5 along that row and so on until the series circuit reaches the terminal end of the lead 49
   near the bottom right corner of the Figure. The series circuit is indicated by the arrowed
   line in the Figure.
                Figures 13 to 17 illustrate another embodiment of a dense array concentrated
   photovoltaic cell module in accordance with the present invention that is suitable for
10 use in a receiver of a solar radiation-based electric power generating system, with the
   module including another embodiment of a photovoltaic cell assembly in accordance
   with the present invention. Figure 13 is a top plan view of the module. Figure 13 looks
   through the module and shows the various components of the photovoltaic cell
   assembly of the module. This essentially transparent top plan view of the module
15 shows the top cover 19, and the cells 7, the upper metalized layer 15 and additional
   components of the substrate and other components of the assembly, including connector
   terminals, and components of the heat extraction system 11, etc. Figures 14 to 17 show
   the assembly in more detail.
                With reference to Figures 13 to 17, the photovoltaic cell assembly has the same
20 basic components as the embodiments shown in Figure 7 and in Figures 4 to 6 and 8 to
   12. Specifically, the assembly includes a plurality of photovoltaic cells 7 mounted on a
   substrate, each cell 7 having an exposed surface for solar radiation. The cells 7 are
   arranged in a dense array that includes a string of cells which are electrically connected
   together and form a series electrical circuit. The cells 7 are arranged in a shingle, i.e.
25 overlapping, pattern. The assembly also includes a by-pass diode associated with each
   cell 7 to allow the cell to be by-passed in the electrical circuit in the event that the cell
   fails or is under illuminated, and the diodes being positioned in the shadows of the cells.
                The main difference between the embodiment shown in Figures 13 to 17 and the
   embodiments shown in Figure 7 and in Figures 4 to 6 and 8 to 12 relates to the electrical
30 circuit 49 that electrically connects the photovoltaic cell assembly to a busbar (not
   shown) of the receiver.
   5116719_1 (GHMatters) P92701.PCT

                                                  - 18
                With reference to Figures 13 to 17, the electrical circuit 49 includes an L-shaped
   lead 63 that has (a) a short arm connected to a current input or a current output cell 7 of
   the photoelectric cell assembly and (b) a long arm that extends down the side 27 of the
   module. The electrical circuit 49 also includes a conductive member 65 that is
 5 electrically connected to the lead 63 that extends further down the side of the module
   and terminates in an in-turned hook section. The conductive member 65 is directly
   bonded or otherwise secured to an electrical isolator 67 that provides structural support
   for the assembly and electrically isolates the conductive member 65 and the lead 63
   from the module. The up-turned end of the conductive member 65 is connected to a
10 receiver bus-bar (not shown) that transfers current from the module to a receiver circuit.
                One advantage of the embodiment is that the electrical circuit is separate from
   the heat extraction system 11. Specifically, unlike the embodiments shown in Figure 7
   and in Figures 4 to 6 and 8 to 12, the electrical circuit does not pass through the coolant
   chamber 41 of the heat extraction system 11.
15              Figure 18 is a top plan view of another embodiment of a photovoltaic assembly
   in accordance with the present invention with the top cover and the photovoltaic cells
   removed to reveal the layout of the upper metalized layer of the substrate of the
   assembly. Figures 19 and Figure 20 show the assembly in more detail.
                The photovoltaic cell assembly is the same in a number respects as the other
20 embodiments of the invention described in relation to Figures 4 to 17. Specifically, the
   assembly includes a plurality of photovoltaic cells 7 mounted on a substrate, each cell 7
   having an exposed surface for solar radiation. The cells 7 are arranged in a dense array
   that includes a string of cells which are electrically connected together and form a series
   electrical circuit. The assembly also includes a by-pass diode 53 associated with each
25 cell 7 to allow the cell 7 to be isolated from the electrical circuit in the event that the
   cell fails. The diodes 53 are positioned in the shadows of the cells 7.
                The difference between the Figures 18 to 20 embodiment and the other
   embodiments is that the Figures 18 to 20 embodiment includes a Z-connect arrangement
   69 that electrically interconnects successive cells 7 in a row and the cell 7 and the end
30 of one row and the adjacent cell 7 and the start of another row, with the cells 7 being
   5116719_1 (GHMatters) P92701.PCT

                                                        - 19
   arranged in a flat arrangement of cells 7 (see Figure 20) as opposed to the shingle
   arrangement of cells 7 of the other embodiments.
                As can best be seen in Figure 20, the Z-shaped connection 69 includes a pair of
   spaced-apart parallel arms 71, 73 and an interconnecting web 75, with the lower arm 73
 5 of each connector being connected to an under surface of a leading end of one cell 7 and
   the upper arm 71 of each connector being connected to an upper surface of a trailing
   end of a successive cell 7. The diode 53 of the successive cell is located below the one
   cell and is connected to the lower arm of the connector. The assembly thereby connects
   successive cells 7 in series and simultaneously providing parallel connection to the
10 diode with the successive cell, thereby protecting that cell.
                One embodiment of a method of manufacturing a substrate for a shingle
   arrangement of the photovoltaic cell assembly 5 shown in Figures 4 and 6 to 10
   includes the following steps.
                *             Etching a piece of a metal-coated ceramic material to create the required
15 gaps in the metal layer on one side of the piece, thereby leaving metal pads for
   mounting cells in a serpentine arrangement on that side of the piece.
                *             Machining the surface of the metal pads to form metallised elements
   having a required sawtooth profile to mount cells (typically 100 microns high at one end
   and typically 400 microns high at the other end).
20              0             Completing the manufacture of the substrate by applying a constant
   thickness of solder (typically 50-100 microns), for example by screen printing, to the
   metallised elements. A constant thickness helps accuracy and repeatability of
   placement of cells onto the substrate and provides for known heat transfer across the
   cell - this is more of an issue for solder than for the metal because of the higher
25 conductivity of the metal (typically a factor of 10 higher). Constant thickness makes
   assembly of the photovoltaic cell assembly 5 easier.
                The photovoltaic cell assembly 5 may be assembled by positioning diodes,
   cross-connections, and cells on the substrate.
                The photovoltaic cell assembly 5 of the present invention includes the following
30 advantages and features:
   5116719_1 (GHMatters) P92701.PCT

                                                         - 20
                *             The serpentine arrangement of lines of diodes and cross-connections
   avoids the need for wrap around cells - lowers component cost and simplifies
   manufacture.
                *             The by-pass diodes have better thermal attachment - hence better heat
 5 transfer to the substrate also providing a heat path for cooling the cell above
                *             There is a large direct electrical connection between cells providing
   lower electrical resistance thus reducing losses and increasing output..
                *             Each by-pass diode, by virtue of being sandwiched and bonded between
   a cell and the metalised substrate and positioned in the shadow of a neighbouring cell,
10 requires no additional connections. One advantage is that each diode is intimately
   connected to a heat sink, i.e. there is a direct connection between each diode and the
   substrate. The metal on the substrate, typically copper, is thermally bonded to the
   highly conductive aluminium nitride (or other) substrate.
                *             Bunching up of cells is possible with a shingle arrangement. This is an
15 advantage to create space for electrical input and output terminals for power take-off
   from the module to a bus-bar or a neighbouring module. For example, there can be 10
   cells in a row, bunched up 1 mm, with the output terminal being positioned in the 1 mm
   space. This means there is only 1% loss of effective area from 10 cells. The use of the
   high performance cells from a normal efficiency distribution typically occurring in cell
20 manufacture allows this loss to be easily offset. No special cells are required. The entire
   module can assembled using just one type of low cost basic cell configuration.
                *             The serpentine arrangement makes it possible to position electrical input
   and output terminals within a module perimeter. The perimeter of modules is an
   important issue from the perspective of waterproofness.
25              *             The serpentine arrangement makes it possible to minimise voltage
   between adjacent cells (or parts of a string) allowing closer cell packing improving
   module efficiency and reliability
                *             The module is sufficiently large in size to make it possible to use
   monitoring equipment in relation to each module. The monitoring equipment may be
30 positioned on the back of a module. The monitoring equipment may measure voltage
   5116719_1 (GHMatters) P92701.PCT

                                                        - 21
   temperature and current and I-V characteristics at high speed for each module while the
   module is in operation.
                *             The serpentine arrangement makes it possible to separate the electrical
   input and output terminals of the module and thereby minimise potential for short
 5 circuit between inlet and outlet.
                *             The serpentine arrangement makes it possible to position the input and
   output terminals towards the perimeter of the cell and this is an advantage from an
   assembly viewpoint and from a serviceability viewpoint.
                *             The large module size allows sufficient area for an effective edge seal
10 (typically 0.5 to 1 mm thick) while causing minimal loss in ACAR
                A number of full scale shingle modules have been built and tested in the
   laboratory and 'on sun' under operational conditions.
                The key features of the invention, namely to deliver low cost, high performance
   and reliability have been proven in work carried out by the applicant on the full scale
15 shingle modules in the laboratory and 'on sun' under operational conditions.
                These features include:
   1.           A simple practical build using low cost 'off the shelf' cells facilitated by the
   shingle substrate. The configuration allows for the inclusion of hidden protection by
   pass diodes. The module can be manually assembled and is also suitable for robotic
20 assembly at high speed using off the shelf robotic equipment (specially configured and
   programmed). To demonstrate these features five full scale modules were assembled
   and tested. A metallised substrate was formed, 100 solar cells and diodes were
   assembled into the configuration show in Figures 1 to 4 and 6 to 9. The production yield
   for all five modules was 100 %. as shown by a flash test at 600 suns intensity and a
25 diode continuity test. The tests produced typical results of; open cell voltage (Voc)=
   321 volts and maximum amperage (Isc)                =  8.4 amps. When compared to an individual
   cell Voc        =   3.21 volts and Isc = 8.4 amps show a perfect result.
   2.           High "in module" cell efficiency due to high cell packing factor and maximised
   active area facilitated by the shingle design (and the hidden flat diodes mounted behind
30 the cells). The five modules were subject to high intensity flash test at 600 suns. A high
   intensity flash simulator was specially configured to provide a short 5 millisecond burst
   5116719_1 (GHMatters) P92701.PCT

                                                   - 22
   of simulated sunlight at up to 600 suns intensity. A data acquisition system and load
   bank were synchronised to test the module under load at high intensity. The module
   active area efficiency was found to be the same as the cell active area, which in both
   cases was 37%. This proves there is no loss of cell efficiency as a result of the assembly
 5 into the module.
   3.           Circuit continuity and cell protection due to the diode arrangement within the
   shingle configuration, whereby intimate connection between the back of the cells is
   facilitated via large area diodes with excellent bonding to the cooled electrically
   conducting metallised substrate and the backside of the cells. The diodes were tested to
10 33 amps under forward bias; the maximum required for normal operation is 14 amps.
   The effectiveness of the diodes in preventing cell damage and providing current bypass
   for circuit continuity was demonstrated by exposing a module to high intensity sunlight
   of varied flux ranging from 600 to approximately 750 suns across the module causing
   simultaneous unequal illumination of the cells and further causing the diodes to operate
15 in 'bypass' mode. Both the cells and diodes and cells were subsequently tested on the
   flash tester under repeated and controlled conditions. No failures were detected.
   4.           Low and controlled cell and diode temperature demonstrated due to a 3D
   contoured metallised substrate which facilitates intimate thermal connection to every
   part of every cell and one complete face of each diode. Cell and diode temperatures are
20 below 70'C at 800 suns intensity. The cell temperature was measured by Infrared
   thermometry. The diode integrity was tested after on sun exposure using reverse bias
   current which shows that all diodes are conducting. An open circuit flash test (Voc       =
   321 volts) also confirmed that no diode had failed in short circuit.
   5.           High efficiency due to low series resistance facilitated by the shingle
25 arrangement which connects each cell in a string directly to a neighbour without the
   use of connectors and requiring no 'dead space' to make the connection. The 'in
   module' efficiency for 100 cells in series is the same as the average of individual cell
   efficiencies. (or the total module power       =  sum of individual cell powers). An in-module
   cell efficiency was determined by flash test to be 37% using 100 individual cell of 37%
30 (active area) efficiency.
   5116719_1 (GHMatters) P92701.PCT

                                                   - 23
   6.           The cell configuration was proven to be robust undergoing 13,000 temperature
   cycles with no significant degradation. The temperature range was typical of operational
   conditions being 28'C to 65'C with a resultant drop in (flash test) efficiency of less than
   5% relative. (this power drop allowance is typical of IEC 6108 standards requirements)
 5 The module was mounted on a proprietary test rig which is designed to rapidly heat the
   module up to operating temperature and cool it down to the initial temperature
   approximately 1000 times per day. In this manner the module can be rapidly stressed to
   shown the effects of daily cycling equivalent to many years of operation.
   7.           The diode configuration was shown to be robust with no failures after 13,000
10 cycles from 28'C to 65'C.
   8.           The cross connectors have been demonstrated to be robust showing no failures
   after 13,000 cycles from 28'C to 65'C.
                Many modifications may be made to the preferred embodiment described above
   without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention.
15              By way of example, whilst the embodiment described above is described in the
   context of a large scale solar radiation-based electrical power generating system, the
   present invention is not so limited and extends to small scale systems such as roof
   mounted systems for domestic or commercial electrical power generation.
                In addition, whilst the solar radiation-based electric power generating system
20 described above includes a parabolic array of mirrors, the present invention is not so
   limited and extends to other options, such as an array of heliostats, for reflecting and
   concentrating solar radiation onto a receiver.
   5116719_1 (GHMatters) P92701.PCT

                                                       - 24
   CLAIMS:
   1.                         A photovoltaic cell assembly that is suitable for use in a dense array
   concentrated photovoltaic cell module, the assembly including a plurality of
   photovoltaic cells mounted on a substrate, each cell having an exposed surface for
 5 acceptance of solar radiation, the cells being arranged in a dense array that includes at
   least one string of cells which are electrically connected together and form a series
   electrical circuit, and each string including a plurality of straight lengths of cells that
   form rows, with the end cell of one row of cells being electrically connected to the cell
   at the beginning of a successive row of cells, and a by-pass diode associated with each
10 cell to allow the cell to be by-passed in the electrical circuit in the event that the cell
   fails or has low illumination, the diodes being positioned in the shadows of the cells,
   and the diodes providing direct pathways for heat and electricity from the cells to the
   substrate.
   2.                         The assembly defined in claim 1 wherein one terminal of each diode is
15 directly in contact electrically and thermally with the substrate and the other terminal of
   each diode is directly in contact electrically and thermally with the neighbouring cell.
   3.                         The assembly defined in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the dense array
   covers more than 95% of the assembly with active cell area.
   4.                         The assembly defined in any one of the preceding claims wherein the
20 substrate includes a plurality of metallised elements that form mounting pads for cells,
   each cell being mounted on one of the metallised elements, each metallised element
   including a section that extends under a neighbouring (such as a preceding) cell in the
   electrical circuit, the bypass diode for the cell being positioned beneath and in the
   shadow of the neighbouring cell and mounted on the section of the metallised element
25 that extends under the neighbouring cell, the diode being electrically and thermally
   connected to the substrate via the section of the metallised element, and the diode being
   electrically and thermally connected to the neighbouring cell.
   5.                         The assembly defined in claim 4 wherein when the diode is electrically
   and thermally connected to the substrate via the section of the metallised element and
30 the diode is electrically connected to the neighbouring cell, the terminals of the diode
   are spaced apart with one terminal being closer to the cell than the other terminal.
   5116719_1 (GHMatters) P92701.PCT

                                                       - 25
   6.                         The assembly defined in claim 5 wherein the cells are mounted to the
   substrate in a shingle arrangement.
   7.                         The assembly defined in claim 6 wherein the contours of the metalised
   elements follow the profile of the underside of the shingled cells such that at least 90%,
 5 typically 95%, of each cell is maintained in thermal contact with the substrate.
   8                          The assembly defined in claim 6 or claim 7 wherein the three
   dimensionality of the metallised zone/substrate due to the shingle arrangement provides
   space for locating the diode under the neighbouring cell, while allowing the cells to be
   positioned in the densely packed array.
10 9.                         The assembly defined in any one of claims 6 to 8 wherein the metallised
   elements have an inclined upper surface that mounts the cells at an angle to the
   substrate so as to allow overlapping of the cells to form the shingle arrangement.
   10.                        The assembly defined in claim 9 wherein the metallised elements form a
   saw tooth profile when viewed in cross-section through the cell along a row of cells.
15 11.                        The assembly defined in any one of claims 4 to 10 wherein the metallised
   elements are electrically separated from each other.
   12.                        The assembly defined in any of claims 4 to 11 wherein the section of the
   metallised element that extends under the preceding cell is in the form of a tongue.
   13.                         The assembly defined in any one of the preceding claims wherein the
20 aspect ratio of the length or width to the height of each diode is 5:1 to 10:1.
   14.                        The assembly defined in any one of the preceding claims wherein the
   diode is made of silicon or other high thermal conductivity material.
   15.                        The assembly defined in any one of the preceding claims wherein the
   substrate is an electrical insulator and a thermal conductor.
25 16.                         The assembly defined in claim 15 wherein the substrate is a ceramic
   material.
   17.                        The assembly defined in claim 15 wherein the substrate is aluminium
   nitride or silicon nitride.
   18.                        The assembly defined in any one of the preceding claims includes a
30 cross-connection element that electrically connects together the end of one row and the
   beginning of a successive row of cells.
   5116719_1 (GHMatters) P92701.PCT

                                                       - 26
   19.                        The assembly defined in claim 18 wherein the cross-connect element is
   in the form of a flat strip, whereby the cross-connection is in a single plane.
   20.                        The assembly defined in claim 18 wherein the cross-connect element is a
   ribbon or a strip of metal.
 5 21.                        The assembly defined in claim 20 wherein the ribbon or the strip of metal
   is a straight length.
   22.                        The assembly defined in claim 20 wherein the ribbon or the strip of metal
   is Z-shaped connection having a pair of spaced-apart parallel arms and an
   interconnecting web.
10 23.                        The assembly defined in any one of claims 18 to 22 wherein the cross
   connection element is connected at one end to an upper surface of one cell and at the
   other end to a lower surface of a successive or a preceding cell.
   24.                        The assembly defined in any one of claims 18 to 23 wherein the number
   of cross-connection elements is less than 20% of the total number of cells.
15 25.                        The assembly defined in any one of the preceding claims comprising
   electrical input and output terminals at the perimeter of the assembly.
   26.                        The assembly defined in any one of the preceding claims includes an
   edge seal.
   27.                        The assembly defined in claim 26 wherein the area occupied by the edge
20 seal is less than 4% of the total module area.
   28.                        A photovoltaic cell assembly that is suitable for use in a dense array
   concentrated photovoltaic cell module, the assembly including a plurality of
   photovoltaic cells mounted on a substrate, each cell having an exposed surface for solar
   radiation, the cells being arranged in dense array that includes at least one string of cells
25 which are electrically connected together and form a series electrical circuit and being
   physically arranged, a by-pass diode associated with each cell to allow the cell to be by
   passed in the electrical circuit in the event that the cell fails, and the diodes being
   positioned in the shadows of the cells, and a Z-shaped connection electrically
   connecting together successive cells, the Z-shaped connection having a pair of spaced
30 apart parallel arms and an interconnecting web, with the lower arm of each connector
   being connected to an under surface of a leading end of one cell and the upper arm of
   5116719_1 (GHMatters) P92701.PCT

                                                         - 27
   each connector being connected to an upper surface of a trailing end of a successive
   cell, and the bypass diode of the successive cell being located below the one cell and
   being connected to the lower arm of the connector, the assembly thereby connecting
   successive cells in series and simultaneously providing parallel connection to the diode
 5 with the successive cell, thereby protecting that cell.
   29.                        A dense array concentrated photovoltaic cell module that includes a
   plurality of the photovoltaic cell assemblies defined in any one of the preceding claims
   stacked together in side by side relationship in an array to form a receiver where the
   module area is greater than 95% of the array area.
10 30.                        The module defined in claim 29 wherein 80% or more of the cells of the
   photovoltaic cell assemblies are directly electrically connected to each other.
   31.                        The module defined in claim 29 or claim 30 includes a monitoring circuit
   integrated into a back of the module for measuring voltage, current and temperature
   characteristics during operation.
15 32.                        The module defined in any one of claims 29 to 31 wherein the edge seal
   is a preformed transparent or reflective component.
   33.                        A method of manufacturing a substrate for a shingle arrangement of a
   photovoltaic cell assembly defined in any one of claims 1 to 28 includes the following
   steps:
20 (a)                        etching a piece of a metal-coated ceramic material to create required gaps
   in the metal layer on one side of the piece, thereby leaving metal pads for mounting
   cells in a serpentine arrangement on that side of the piece;
   (a)                        machining or forming the surface of the metal pads to form metallised
   elements having a required sawtooth profile to mount cells (typically 100 microns high
25 at one end and typically 400 microns high at the other end); and
   (b)                        completing the manufacture of the substrate by applying a constant
   thickness of solder (typically 50-100 microns) or other suitable medium, for example by
   screen printing, to the metallised elements.
   34.                        A photovoltaic cell assembly that is suitable for use in a dense array
30 concentrated photovoltaic cell module, the assembly including a plurality of
   photovoltaic cells mounted on a substrate, each cell having an exposed surface for
   5116719_1 (GHMatters) P92701.PCT

                                               -28
   acceptance of solar radiation, the cells being arranged in a dense array covering more
   than 95% of the assembly with active cell area, with the cells including at least one
   string of cells which are electrically connected together and form a series electrical
   circuit, and each string including a plurality of straight lengths of cells that form rows,
 5 with the end cell of one row of cells being electrically connected to the cell at the
   beginning of a successive row of cells, and a by-pass diode associated with each cell to
   allow the cell to be by-passed in the electrical circuit in the event that the cell fails or
   has low illumination, the diodes being positioned in the shadows of the cells, and the
   diodes providing direct pathways for heat and electricity from the cells to the substrate,
10 and the substrate including a plurality of metallised elements that form mounting pads
   for cells, each cell being mounted on one of the metallised elements, each metallised
   element including a section that extends under a neighbouring (such as a preceding) cell
   in the electrical circuit, the bypass diode for the cell being positioned beneath and in the
   shadow of the neighbouring cell and mounted on the section of the metallised element
15 that extends under the neighbouring cell, the diode being electrically and thermally
   connected to the substrate via the section of the metallised element, and the diode being
   electrically and thermally connected to the neighbouring cell.
   5116719_1 (GHMatters) P92701.PCT

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
