                                          ABSTRACT
       A system for facilitating selection of a resource for a task, the system including a
communication interface, a memory including a multi-dimensional assessment framework
including assessment dimensions including at least a resource dimension and a task
dimension, wherein the task dimension includes a resource experience dimension
relating to resource experience regarding similar tasks, dimensional metrics assigned to
the assessment dimensions, and dimensional weights for the assessment dimensions,
resource analysis circuitry configured to obtain, from a task controller device, task
characteristics specified by a task controller for a task posted by the task controller device
to a resource data platform, the posted task including a text narrative describing the task,
connect to the resource data platform through the communication interface, obtain
resource characteristics from the resource data platform that characterize two or more
available resources that may be selected for the posted task, each resource characteristic
including a text narrative describing the available resource, determine a resource
assessment for each available resource by analyzing the text narrative of the posted task
and each available resource to determine matching characteristics, calculating a task
similarity score reflecting a level of similarity between a previous task completed by each
resource and the posted task and by executing resource assessment according to, the
assessment dimensions and dimensional metrics in the multi-dimensional assessment
framework, including the task similarity score, and the dimensional weights, and store
characteristics of available resources and resource assessments in separate database
tables, and machine interface generation circuitry configured to generate a machine
interface including a resource review interface that provides a visualization of available
resources and associated resource assessments in a display that provides a side-by-side
comparison of the available resources and associated resource assessments, the display
including a customization section which enables a user to adjust one or more resource
assessment thresholds, and an analysis section which enables a user to adjust one or
more task requirement thresholds, wherein only the resources that satisfy the one or more
resource assessment and task requirement thresholds are displayed, deliver the machine
interface to the task controller device through the communication interface, and receive,
from the task controller device through the machine interface, a task controller selection
of one of the displayed available resources.

                    1/18
         CoCC
               A
           C\j
                                         (I))
                 E
                 co                           co
                 a)   g
                     .0   U    I
      0.
                      E)  C/,C    ?a,
                                  (D
                                      (n
                      E   C/)   0 C
                         CC           ca
    C"
Cc=                                C"
                     CEl

                                              1
       RESOURCE EVALUATION FOR COMPLEX TASK EXECUTION
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
[0000]    This application is a Divisional Application of Australian Patent Application
Number <removed-apn> filed 18 October 2016, the content of which is also incorporated by
reference herein.
PRIORITY CLAIM
[0001]    This application claims priority to Indian provisional application serial number
<removed-apn>88, filed 8-June-2016.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002]    This application relates to a technical evaluation of resources to carry out
complex tasks.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0003]    The global proliferation of high speed communication networks has created
unprecedented opportunities for geographically distributed resource identification,
evaluation, selection, and allocation. However, while the opportunities exist and continue
to grow, the realization of those opportunities has fallen behind. In part, this is due to the
enormous technical challenges of finding the resources, evaluating the resources, and
determining how to allocate the resources to achieve the highest likelihood of successfully
completing the task.

                                              2
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0004]     In one aspect, the present invention provides a system for facilitating selection
of a resource for a task, the system including a communication interface, a memory
including a multi-dimensional assessment framework including assessment dimensions
including at least a resource dimension and a task dimension, wherein the task dimension
includes a resource experience dimension relating to resource experience regarding
similar tasks, dimensional metrics assigned to the assessment dimensions, and
dimensional weights for the assessment dimensions, resource analysis circuitry
configured to obtain, from a task controller device, task characteristics specified by a task
controller for a task posted by the task controller device to a resource data platform, the
posted task including a text narrative describing the task, connect to the resource data
platform through the communication interface, obtain resource characteristics from the
resource data platform that characterize two or more available resources that may be
selected for the posted task, each resource characteristic including a text narrative
describing the available resource, determine a resource assessment for each available
resource by analyzing the text narrative of the posted task and each available resource
to determine matching characteristics, calculating a task similarity score reflecting a level
of similarity between a previous task completed by each resource and the posted task
and by executing resource assessment according to the assessment dimensions and
dimensional metrics in the multi-dimensional assessment framework, including the task
similarity score, and the dimensional weights, and store characteristics of available
resources and resource assessments in separate database tables; and machine interface
generation circuitry configured to generate a machine interface including a resource
review interface that provides a visualization of available resources and associated
resource assessments in a display that provides a side-by-side comparison of the
available resources and associated resource assessments, the display including a
customization section which enables a user to adjust one or more resource assessment
thresholds, and an analysis section which enables a user to adjust one or more task
requirement thresholds, wherein only the resources that satisfy the one or more resource
assessment and task requirement thresholds are displayed, deliver the machine interface
to the task controller device through the communication interface, and receive, from the
task controller device through the machine interface, a task controller selection of one of
the displayed available resources.

                                                3
[0005]      In another aspect, the present invention provides a computer-implemented
method for facilitating selection of a resource for a task, the method including establishing
in memory a multi-dimensional assessment framework including assessment dimensions
including at least a resource dimension and a task dimension, wherein the task dimension
includes at least a resource experience dimension relating to resource experience
regarding similar tasks, dimensional metrics assigned to the assessment dimensions, and
dimensional weights for the assessment dimensions, executing resource analysis
circuitry that obtains, from a task controller device, task characteristics specified by a task
controller for a task posted by the task controller device to a resource data platform, the
posted task including a text narrative describing the task, connects to the resource data
platform through a communication interface, obtains resource characteristics from the
resource data platform that characterize two or more available resources that may be
selected for the posted task, each resource characteristic including a text narrative
describing the available resource, determines a resource assessment for each available
resource by analyzing the text narrative of the posted task and each available resource
to determine matching characteristics, calculating a task similarity score reflecting a level
of similarity between a previous task completed by each resource and the posted task,
and by executing resource assessment according to the assessment dimensions and
dimensional metrics in the multi-dimensional assessment framework including the task
similarity score, and the dimensional weights, and stores characteristics of available
resources and resource assessments in separate database tables, and executing
machine interface generation circuitry to generate a machine interface including a
resource review interface that provides a visualization of          available resources and
associated resource assessments in a display that provides a side-by-side comparison
of the available resources and associated resource assessments, the display including a
customization section which enables a user to adjust one or more resource assessment
thresholds, and an analysis section which enables a user to adjust one or more task
requirement thresholds, wherein only the resources that satisfy the one or more resource
assessment and task requirement thresholds are displayed, and deliver the machine
interface to the task controller device through the communication interface, and receive,
from the task controller device through the machine interface, a task controller selection
of one of the displayed available resources.
[0006]      In yet another aspect, the present invention provides a system for facilitating

                                                4
selection of a resource for a task, the system including a communication interface, a
memory including a multi-dimensional assessment framework including assessment
dimensions and dimensional metrics including a resource dimension configured to
evaluate resource specific characteristics, the resource dimension defining a past rating
metric, and an experience metric, a task dimension configured to evaluate resource-to
task compatibility, the task dimension defining an availability metric, and a skill fitness
metric, a controller dimension configured to evaluate resource-to-task controller
compatibility, the controller dimension defining a cultural match metric, and a task
controller collaboration metric, a team dimension configured to evaluate resource-to-team
compatibility, the team dimension defining, a team collaboration metric, and a time-zone
match metric, and a goal dimension configured to evaluate resource goals, the goal
dimension defining a skill opportunity metric, and dimensional weights for the assessment
dimensions, including a resource dimensional weight for the resource dimension, a task
dimensional weight for the task dimension, a controller dimensional weight for the
controller dimension, a team dimensional weight for the team dimension, and a goal
dimensional weight for the goal dimension, resource analysis circuitry configured to
obtain, from a task controller device, task characteristics specified by a task controller for
a task posted by the task controller device to a resource data platform, the posted task
including a text narrative describing the task, connect to the resource data platform
through the communication interface, obtain resource characteristics from the resource
data platform that characterize two or more available resources that may be selected for
the posted task, each resource characteristic including a text narrative describing the
available resource, and determine a resource assessment for each available resource by
analyzing the text narrative of the posted task and each available resource to determine
matching characteristics, calculating a task similarity score using the past rating metric,
the task similarity score reflecting a similarity between a previous task, and by executing
resource assessment according to the assessment dimensions and dimensional metrics
in the multi-dimensional assessment framework, including the task similarity score and
store characteristics of available resources and resource assessments in separate
database tables; and the dimensional weights, and machine interface generation circuitry
configured to generate machine interfaces including a resource assessment result
interface including assessment results for each of the two or more available resources, a
resource detail interface for a selected resource among the two or more available
resources, the resource detail interface including a skill fitness section, a similar task

                                             5
analysis section, an ongoing tasks analysis section, a recent reviews analysis section, a
prior task analysis section, and a summary analysis section, and a resource review
interface that provides a visualization of available resource and associated resource
assessments in a display that provides a side-by-side comparison of and the available
resources and associated resource assessments, the display including a customization
section which enables a user to adjust one or more resource assessment thresholds, and
an analysis section which enables a user to adjust one or more task requirement
thresholds, wherein only the resources that satisfy the one or more resource assessment
and task requirement thresholds are displayed, deliver the machine interfaces to the task
controller device through the communication interface, and receive, from the task
controller device through one or more of the machine interfaces, a task controller
selection of the displayed available resources.

                                             6
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0007]    Figure 1 shows a global network architecture.
[0008]    Figure 2 shows an example implementation of a resource analysis system.
[0009]    Figure 3 shows one example of a multi-dimensional analysis framework that the
resource analysis system may implement.
[0010]    Figure 4 shows another example of a multi-dimensional analysis framework that
the resource analysis system may implement.
[0011]    Figure 5 shows another example of a multi-dimensional analysis framework that
the resource analysis system may implement.
[0012]    Figure 6 shows the resource analysis system in communication with sources of
resource data, and with platforms that consume resource analysis services.
[0013]    Figure 7 shows an example potential resource interface.
[0014]    Figure 8 shows an example resource analysis result interface.
[0015]    Figure 9 shows an example resource detail interface.
[0016]    Figure 10 shows additional detail from the resource detail interface.
[0017]    Figure 11 shows an example similar task analysis interface.
[0018]    Figure 12 shows an example ongoing tasks analysis interface.
[0019]    Figure 13 shows an example recent reviews analysis interface.
[0020]    Figure 14 shows an example prior task analysis interface.
[0021]    Figure 15 shows an example summary analysis interface.
[0022]    Figure 16 shows an example resource comparison interface.
[0023]    Figure 17 shows an example of process flow for resource analysis.
[0024]    Figure 18 shows another example of process flow for resource analysis when
integrated with a hybrid sourcing platform.

                                                7
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENT(S) OF THE INVENTION
[0025]     Finding, evaluating, and applying the right set of resources to a complex task is
a key to successful task execution and completion. The dynamic resource analysis
machine      ("DRAM")     described   below    implements    a  technical  multi-dimensional
assessment system for resources, performs complex assessments of the resources, and
defines and generates improved machine interfaces that deliver the assessments, e.g.,
for consideration and possible selection of a resource. The DRAM may perform the
complex assessments on a wide range of resource types for any type of task. A few
examples of resource types include: software programs; trained and untrained machine
learning models; artificial intelligence engines; robots; machines; tools; mechanical,
chemical, and electrical equipment, database models; machines; individual workers with
specific skills; and mechanical, chemical, or electrical components. A few examples of
tasks include: deploying cloud infrastructure; building a web site; building an oil rig;
performing legal services; creating a new software application; architecting and building
an office, factory, or school; or designing, simulating, prototyping, and manufacturing high
performance analog or digital circuitry.
[0026]     The DRAM may be implemented using any set of dimensions and metrics
organized into a multi-dimensional analysis framework that is suitable for the resources
in question.    For instance, a tailored set of analysis dimensions may be present for
chemical or electrical component selection, and those dimensions may be very different
form the dimensions in place for assessing workers. As one specific example, while the
DRAM may measure timezone match, education compensation goals, or cultural
matches for workers, the DRAM may instead measure component tolerance, number of
suppliers, cost of materials handling, or other metrics for chemical, electrical, or other
resources. For purposes of explanation, the discussion below concerns one possible set
of dimensions for worker assessment, but the dimensions and metrics may change in any
degree needed to suit the resource and tasks in question.
[0027]     Figures 1 and 2 provide an example context for the discussion below of the
technical solutions in the DRAM. The examples in Figures 1 and 2 show one of many
possible different implementation contexts. In that respect, the technical solutions are not
limited in their application to the architectures and systems shown in Figures 1 and 2, but
are applicable to many other system implementations, architectures, and connectivity.

                                              8
[0028]     Figure 1 shows a global network architecture 100.      Connected through the
global network architecture 100 are geographically distributed data platforms 102, 104,
106, and 108. The data platforms 102 - 108 provide resource characteristic data on any
number or type of available resources.
[0029]     Throughout the global network architecture 100 are networks, e.g., the network
110. The networks provide connectivity between the data platforms 102 - 108 and the
DRAM 112. The networks 110 may include private and public networks defined over any
pre-determined and possibly dynamic internet protocol (IP) address ranges.
[0030]     The DRAM 112 performs complex technical resource assessments. As an
overview, the DRAM 112 may include communication interfaces 114, assessment
engines 116, and machine interfaces 118. The communication interfaces 114 connect
the DRAM 112 to the networks 110 and the data platforms 102 - 108, and facilitate data
exchange 152, including exchanging resource characteristic data, and the delivery of
machine interfaces (which may include Graphical User Interfaces (GUls)) for improved
interaction with the DRAM 112 regarding the assessments.
[0031]     Figure 2 shows an example implementation 200 of the DRAM 112. The DRAM
112 includes communication interfaces 202, system circuitry 204, input/output (I/O)
interfaces 206, and display circuitry 208 that generates machine interfaces 210 locally or
for remote display, e.g., in a web browser running on a local or remote machine. The
machine interfaces 210 and the 1/O interfaces 206 may include GUIs, touch sensitive
displays, voice or facial recognition inputs, buttons, switches, speakers and other user
interface elements. Additional examples of the 1/O interfaces 206 include microphones,
video and still image cameras, headset and microphone input / output jacks, Universal
Serial Bus (USB) connectors, memory card slots, and other types of inputs. The I/O
interfaces 206 may further include magnetic or optical media interfaces (e.g., a CDROM
or DVD drive), serial and parallel bus interfaces, and keyboard and mouse interfaces.
[0032]     The communication interfaces 202 may include wireless transmitters and
receivers ("transceivers") 212 and any antennas 214 used by the transmit and receive
circuitry of the transceivers 212. The transceivers 212 and antennas 214 may support
WiFi network communications, for instance, under any version of IEEE 802.11, e.g.,
802.11n or 802.11ac. The communication interfaces 202 may also include wireline
transceivers 216. The wireline transceivers 216 may provide physical layer interfaces for

                                              9
any of a wide range of communication protocols, such as any type of Ethernet, data over
cable    service    interface  specification (DOCSIS),     digital subscriber  line   (DSL),
Synchronous Optical Network (SONET), or other protocol.
[0033]      The system circuitry 204 may include hardware, software, firmware, or other
circuitry in any combination. The system circuitry 204 may be implemented, for example,
with one or more systems on a chip (SoC), application specific integrated circuits (ASIC),
microprocessors, discrete analog and digital circuits, and other circuitry. The system
circuitry 204 is part of the implementation of any desired functionality in the DRAM 112,
including the assessment engines 116. As just one example, the system circuitry 204
may include one or more instruction processors 218 and memories 220. The memory
220 stores, for example, control instructions 222 and an operating system 224. In one
implementation, the processor 218 executes the control instructions 222 and the
operating system 224 to carry out any desired functionality for the DRAM 112. The control
parameters 226 provide and specify configuration and operating options for the control
instructions 222, operating system 224, and other functionality of the DRAM 112.
[0034]      The DRAM 112 may include technical data table structures 232 hosted on
volume storage devices, e.g., hard disk drives (HDDs) and solid state disk drives (SDDs).
The storage devices may define and store database table structures that the control
instructions 222 access, e.g., through a database control system, to perform the
functionality implemented in the control instructions 222.
[0035]      In the example shown in Figure 2, the databases store resource characteristic
data 228, completed resource assessments 230, and other data elements supporting the
multi-dimensional analysis described below. Any of the databases may be part of a single
database structure, and, more generally, may be implemented as data stores logically or
physically in many different ways. As one example, the data table structures 232 may be
databases tables storing records that the control instructions 222 read, write, delete, and
modify in connection with performing the multi-dimensional processing noted below.
[0036]      In one implementation, the control instructions 222 include resource analysis
instructions 234.      The resource assessment       instructions 234 execute       resource
assessment according to a multi-dimensional assessment framework 236 and according
to pre-determined fixed or dynamic framework parameters 238 (e.g., weighting factors).
Further, the control instructions 222 include machine interface generation instructions 240

                                            10
that generate machine interfaces, including GUIs, that achieve improved interaction with
the DRAM 112 regarding the assessments.
[0037]    The data table structures 232, resource assessment instructions 234, multi
dimensional assessment framework 236, framework parameters 238, and machine
interface generation instructions 240 improve the functioning of the underlying computer
hardware itself. That is, these features (among others described below) are specific
improvements in way that the underlying system operates. The improvements facilitate
more efficient, accurate, and precise execution of complex resource analysis.
[0038]    Figures 3 - 5 show example implementations 300, 400, 500 of the multi
dimensional assessment framework 236. The multi-dimensional assessment framework
236 may take a very wide range of implementations, including additional, fewer, or
different dimensions and dimensional characteristics to evaluate. The example
implementation 300, for instance, includes a resource dimension 302, a task dimension
304, a controller dimension 306, a team dimension 308, and a goal dimension 310.
[0039]    The resource dimension 302 includes resource specific characteristics 312.
The resource specific characteristics 312 typically provide data on the individual
performance of the resource itself. Examples are given below in Table 1.
         Table 1
         Resource Dimension
         Dimensional                      Examples
 Characteristics
         Past Rating                      numerical rating on prior tasks completed
                                   more than a threshold amount of time ago
         Recent Rating                    numerical rating on prior tasks completed less
                                   than a threshold amount of time ago
         Hours of Experience              length of time the resource has been working
                                   on tasks

                                               11
        Education                            specific skills, degrees, training, or other
                                    capability indicators possessed by the resource
        Work Experience                      specific types and characteristics of tasks
                                     previously performs; specific roles filled by the
                                     resource
        Billed Assignments                  the number of prior tasks for which the
                                     resource submitted an invoice
        Cost                                 purchase and maintenance         costs, rental
                                     rates, billing rates
[0040]    The task dimension 304 includes resource-task compatibility characteristics
314. The resource-task compatibility characteristics 314 typically provide data on how
well the resource is suited for the posted task. Examples are given below in Table 2.
        Table 2
        Task Dimension
        Dimensional                          Examples
 Characteristics
        Availability                        whether or not a resource is available for the
                                     posted task; the DRAM 112 may derive this metric
                                    from information about other tasks (e.g., duration,
                                    start, and termination data) to which the resource is
                                    assigned
        Skill Fitness                        data reflecting whether the resource has the
                                    ability to perform a particular task; e.g., whether the
                                    skills or capabilities possessed by the resource
                                     match task requirement descriptors; the DRAM 112
                                     may take this data from the profile description of the
                                     resource, may extract the data from descriptions of

                                  12
                        prior tasks completed, or may obtain the data from
                        other sources.
                                The Skill Fitness score may also take into
                        account resource test scores, e.g., if the resource
                        has been measured against any given test of skills.
Similar Task Experience         The     prior  experience    of  a    resource
                        demonstrates knowledge, skills and ability to do
                        various types of tasks.      Also, resources may be
                        better adapted to working on tasks similar to prior
                        tasks. As such, the DRAM           112 may evaluate
                        resource experience on similar tasks when making
                        its evaluation. Further details are provided below.
Profile Overview                This   metric provides an     assessment of
                        resource competency to perform a task based on a
                        profile overview of the resource.       The resource
                        profile may include a description about the resource,
                        prior tasks in academia or industry, and other
                        information. In that regard, the resource profile may
                        demonstrate work history and how            likely the
                        resource is to fit the task requirements. The DRAM
                        112 may implement a content matching approach
                        such as that described in Modern Information
                        Retrieval, Volume 463, ACM press New York, 1999
                        to find similarity between the resource profile and the
                        task description.

                                               13
[0041]    As one example, the DRAM 112 may determine the Skill Fitness metric
according to:
                                  Match (S, S,) +                T
       SkillFitness (StSw) =                               s      P
                                           t           vs,
       where St is the set of skills required for a task, Sw is the set of skills possessed by
the resource, Ts is the Test score and Tp is the Test percentile. Match (St, Sw) computes
the number of matched skills between St and Sw and ISt| is the total number of skills
required by the task.
[0042]    As one example, the DRAM 112 may determine the Similar Task Experience
metric in the following manner. The DRAM represents the task, 't', as a tuple <Tt, Dt, St,
Dut, Rt> where T is title of the task, Dt is description of the task, St is skills required for
the task, Dut is duration of the task, Rt is rating received by the resource on task
completion. Let ty <Tty, Dtp , Stp, Dutp> be the posted task and    th (th E Th, where Th is set
of tasks completed by the resource in the past) <Tth, Dth, Sth, Duth, Rth> be a past task
performed by the resource in past.
[0043]     Experience on a similar task does not necessarily ensure better performance
by the resource. Therefore, to evaluate similarity between two tasks, the DRAM 112 may
use a rating Rt. In that regard, the DRAM 112 may carry out the processing for calculating
task similarity described in Algorithm 1. Note that the DRAM 112 evaluates both
structured (e.g., explicitly defined task categories) and unstructured information (e.g., free
form resource profile text descriptions) about the tasks to identify similar tasks, thus
capturing task similarity with more accuracy.
        Algorithm 1
        Task Similarity
 Input:     tp and  Th

                                            14
Output: Task similarity score Ts
V th E Th, compute the similarity between  th and tp by following below steps:
1. Tokenize the title and description of tasks tp and  th
2. Remove the stop words (most common words) and perform stemming
3. Calculate TF-IDF (Term frequency-Inverse document frequency) weight for each
    token
4. Compute the cosine similarity between title of tp and th; and description of tp and th
                    cossim(th'tP          T.T
                    Cos Sim (Dt, ,DP       6,I1
                                          D tD
5. Calculate the skill similarity as:

                                                      15
                                                      (S,   n S)
                      Skillsimilarity  (th,  tp) =
 6. Compute similarity between Duration of tp and              th as:
                      Durationlsim    (th,  tp)  =    (Du      ==  Du,,       ? 1: 0
 7. Calculate Task similarity score Ts as:
                      Ts = (Skill similarity     (th,  tp) + cos sim   (Th        p )
                      +Tcos_sim       h           ) + Duration     sim  (th, tp)) x Rt
[0044]     The controller dimension 306 includes resource-task controller compatibility
characteristics 316.     The resource-task controller compatibility characteristics 316
typically provide data on how compatible the resource will be with the task controller (e.g.,
an individual who posted the task). For this compatibility measure, the DRAM 112 may
measure parameters such as, e.g., tasks completed by the resource for the task controller
and overlapping working hours between the task controller and the resource. In one
implementation, the DRAM 112 evaluates the metrics shown in Table 3 to measure this
compatibility.
         Table 3
         Controller Dimension

                                     16
      Dimensional           Examples
Characteristics
     Cultural Match         The DRAM 112 may define cultural matching of a
                     resource to a task controller in terms of values, norms,
                     assumptions, interaction with resources, and the like. The
                     DRAM 112 may evaluate the cultural match when, e.g.,
                     resources belong to different geographies and use different
                     languages in order to perform a posted task. This metric
                     assesses how well a task controller of one country (Ctp)
                     collaborates with a resource from another country (Cw). This
                     metric may also capture preference of a task controller to
                     work with a resource in a particular country. The DRAM 112
                     may evaluate, e.g., Jaccard similarity to measure the
                     association between the two, e.g.,:
                                                           C,, n CW
                               CulturalMatch (Ctp, Cw) =        U
     Task Controller        The DRAM 112 may determine the extent to which
                                                                                (tp)
     Collaboration   the resource has collaborated with the task controller
                     from past assignments of the resource (cw). If a resource
                     has collaborated well with a task controller in past, the task
                     controller may feel more confident selecting the resource
                     again. The DRAM        112 may evaluate task controller
                     collaboration according to, e.g.:
                                                                 N
                                                               I   Rating,
                               CollaborationScore (tp, cw)
                                                             = "    N

                                     17
                            where N is the total number of tasks for which cw has
                   collaborated with tp and Ratingi is the feedback score given
                   to cw by tp upon task completion.
      Similar Task          A resource may not have worked directly with the task
Controller         controller before, but may have worked with similar task
                   controllers. Using this metric, the DRAM 112 identifies
                   similarities between task controller of the posted task tpp,
                   and the task controllers with which the resource has worked
                   in the past TPh. That is, this metric measures how well the
                   resource has worked with similar task controllers in past.
                            The DRAM 112 may define the task controller tp as a
                   tuple <feedback score, hiring rate, past hires, total hours
                   worked, and total assignments>. The DRAM 112 may use a
                   measure such as Euclidean Distance (ED) to evaluate the
                   similarity, e.g.:
                            TaskPosterSimilarity
                    (tp,,tph j=max(ED(tph ,tpjVph     'ETBh
                            The DRAM 112 may also evaluate cosine similarity to
                   determine similarity between the task controller of the
                   present task, and the other task controllers that the resource
                   has worked for:

                                18
               Input: cp, Cm // cp is the information about the task controller
               and Cm, is the list of task controllers who previously worked
               with the resource
               Output: Similar controller experience score.
               Steps:
               Step 1: Compute the cosine similarity between cp and all the
               controllers cm in Cm. The similarity may be computed based
               on feedback score, hiring rate, past hires, total hours
               worked, and total assignments.
               Step 2: Determine the similar controller experience score as
               follows:
                Similarityclient_ experience _score =
                max (Vc        E  Cm, (cosinesimilarity(c,, c))
               The above metric measures how well the resource has
               worked with similar task controllers in the past. The metric
               helps the DRAM 112 understand and build confidence in the
               task controller for the resource, e.g., when the task controller
               does not have prior experience working with the resource.
Timezone Match        Resources from different geographies and time zones
               come together to perform a task. The DRAM 112 may
               measure compatibility of resources from different time zones
               with that of the task controller. For instance, the DRAM 112
               may measure how many working hours of the task controller
               overlap with the working hours of the resource.

                                           19
[0045]   The team dimension 308 includes resource-team compatibility characteristics
318. The resource-team compatibility characteristics 318 typically provide data on how
compatible the resource will be with a team of other resources selected for the task. In
one implementation, the DRAM 112 evaluates the metrics shown in Table 4 to measure
this compatibility.
        Table 4
        Team Dimension
        Dimensional                      Examples
 Characteristics
        Team Collaboration               The DRAM 112 may measure compatibility
                                  with the level of collaboration among the task team
                                  members. High collaboration among team members
                                  may lead to better performance of the resource. The
                                  DRAM 112 may evaluate the team collaboration
                                  score based on the collaboration of the resource with
                                  team members, if they have worked together on any
                                  task in past.
                                         The DRAM 112 may evaluate resource-team
                                  compatibility according to, e.g.,:
                                                                           IN
                                                                        1"      Rating
                                  TeamCollaboration (w, team) -               1  N
                                                                     n j=        N

                                                20
                                             where n is the total number of resources that
                                      part of a team, N is the total number of tasks in which
                                      resource w has collaborated with w; (wi E team) and
                                      Rating;; is the feedback score received by resource
                                      w in collaboration with wi on task tj.
         Timezone Match                       In a globally distributed task, resources from
                                      different     time    zones     work     together    on
                                      interdependent tasks. Hence, the DRAM 112 may
                                      measure the compatibility of the time zone of one
                                      resource with other team members the resource will
                                      collaborate with     to complete the       task. Team
                                      members having overlapping time zones are likely to
                                      collaborate better.
[0046]      The goal dimension 310 captures intrinsic and extrinsic forces which drive a
resource to accomplish a task. Those forces may vary depending on the type of resource,
and may include, as examples, opportunity to learn new skills, domains, career growth,
compensation, and other forces. The DRAM 112 determine whether the attributes of a
task fulfill a goal or match a motivation of a resource. Table 5 provides some example
characteristics the DRAM 112 may analyze in this regard.
         Table 5
         Goal Dimension
         Dimensi            Examples
 onal
 Characteristics
         Importan           Resources may have goals to learn what they deem
 t Skill              important skills. This metrics captures whether the task gives a
                      resource an opportunity to learn those skills. In one implementation,

                                         21
       Opportu the DRAM 112 determines whether the task provides an opportunity
nity           to learn skills that are of high demand in the marketplace and are
               high paying. The DRAM 112 may follow, e.g., Algorithm 2 to identify
               important skills.
       Compen          The DRAM 112 may evaluate whether the resource may,
sation Goals   e.g.: obtain a better monetary payoff for a task, increase in skill level
               by performing the task (e.g., from Beginner to Intermediate, or from
               Intermediate to Expert), or meet other compensation goals. The
               DRAM 112 may evaluate this metric with reference to, e.g.,
               expected compensation (e.g., payoff) for each skill required by the
               task, and the expectation expressed by the resource for that skill.
                       For instance, the DRAM 112 may define an expected payoff
               as the difference in average pay offered for the skill level required
               for the task and the average compensation expected by the
               resource for those skills at the level possessed by the resource. This
               differential may drive a further determination of monetary goals for
               the resource as shown below:
                       ExpectedPayDiff (Skill, ,l.)
                       AveragePay(Skill,I,) - AveragePay (Skill,l
                       MontearyMotivation=
                       Average (ExpectedPayDiff(Skill,/,l,.)); V Skill e S,

                                                22
                            where It is the skill level required for the task and /wis the skill
                     level possessed by resource.
        Algorithm 2
        Important Skill Identification
Input:      All task data Tm from the marketplace, skills required for the posted task S,
            and skillset of the resource Sw
Output: GoalSkill Opportunity GS
        1. Rank all the skills listed in tasks Tm based on the percentage of tasks
requiring them, average pay given for the task requiring those skills and percentage
of resources possessing those skills. Order skills in the descending order along these
to identify the goalskills
        2. Calculate the percentile score for each skill based on their rank.
           Percentile(Skill) =N, - R, ) / (N, )
        where Ns is the total number of skills available in a field and Rs is the rank of a
particular skill.
        3. Calculate GoalSkill opportunity for resource as:

                                             23
                                      Percentile(Skill)
         GS (w)      VSkileS, & Skis,
                           |Skill E S,& Skill o S,|
[0047]    Analysis using Random Forest provides indicators of importance of the metrics
discussed above. Table 6, below, shows one analysis in terms of information gain for
ranking importance of each dimension in the multi-dimensional analysis. That is, Table
6 shows the top metrics for making a likely successful resource selection decision, with
the metrics are ranked in decreasing order of Information gain. The DRAM 112 may, for
instance, give greater weight to these metrics than others when determining an overall
evaluation for a potential resource.
        Table 6
        Dimensional Importance
        Metric                                        Information Gain
        Similar Task Experience                       0.96
        Skill Fitness                                 0.675
        Cultural Match                                0.616
        Billed Assignments                            0.612
        Billing Rate                                  0.602
        Task Controller Collaboration                 0.552

                                                24
[0048]     Figure 6 shows a system environment 600 in which the DRAM                    112
communicates with sources 602, 604 of resource data, and with platforms 606 that
consume resource analysis services. The sources 602, 604 may provide any of the data
described above to the DRAM 112 for analysis, e.g., identifications of available resources,
resource profiles, reviews, test scores, prior task experience, cost, time zone, and other
data. The sources 602 are external to the DRAM 112, and in this example include crowd
sourcing systems Upwork 608 and Applause 610. The source 604 is internal to the
organization hosting the DRAM 112, and may be an internal talent database or knowledge
exchange, as just two examples. In other implementations, the source 604 and the DRAM
112 are present in or implemented by physically separate systems. That is, the source
604 and DRAM 112 may be independent, with, for instance, the source 604 internal to an
enterprise, and the enterprise connecting to the DRAM 112 for performing the resource
analysis.
[0049]    The platforms 606 connect to the DRAM 112, e.g., via resource assessment
machine interfaces 210, application programming interface (API) calls defined by the
DRAM 112, and the like. The platforms 606 may access the DRAM 112 as a service for
resource evaluation, e.g., to find resources for a testing environment 612 that performs
testing tasks (e.g., software testing), or for a development environment 614 that performs
development tasks (e.g., software development). The DRAM 112 receives task posting
data from any source, performs the requested analyses on available resources against
the task postings, and returns responses with evaluations to the platforms 606. In that
regard, the DRAM 112 may render and deliver any number of predefined machine
interfaces 210 to the platforms 606, e.g., as GUIs in a web browser. A few examples of
the machine interfaces 210 follow.
[0050]     Figure 7 shows an example resource review interface 700. The resource review
interface 700 shows a resource section 704, a task section 706, and a customization
section 708. The resource section 704 shows potential resources for a task, e.g., the
potential resources 750, 752, whose profile details were retrieved from, e.g., the sources
602, 604. The resource section 704 also provides an overview of specific analysis
dimensions 710 applicable to each resource, e.g., the task compatibility dimension,
resource characteristic     (e.g.,  personal     performance)  dimension,   task controller
compatibility dimension, team compatibility dimension, and goal dimension. The task
section 706 provides a description of the task that the task controller has posted. The

                                               25
customization section 708 provides preference inputs for adjusting the processing of the
DRAM 112.
[0051]     More specifically, the customization section 708 provides GUI elements that the
operator may modify to adjust the DRAM 112 processing.                In this example, the
customization section 708 includes a score control 712, which eliminates from the display
the resources falling below the score threshold; a task compatibility control 714, for setting
an analysis weight for the task dimension 304; a task controller compatibility control 716,
for setting an analysis weight for the controller dimension 306; a team compatibility control
718 for setting an analysis weight for the team dimension 308; a resource characteristic
control 720, for setting an analysis weight for the resource dimension 302; and a goal
control 722, for setting an analysis weight for the goal dimension 310. The analysis
weights may be pre-determined or have default values, and the operator may adjust the
analysis weights for any particular task.
[0052]     The customization section 708 also includes an analysis section 724.         In the
analysis section 724, a duration control 726 allows the operator to specify task duration.
In addition, a budget control 728 allows the operator to specify a task budget. The DRAM
112 evaluates these factors and others when assessing resource availability and cost.
[0053]     Figures 8 - 16 show additional examples of the machine interfaces 210 that the
DRAM 112 may generate. The machine interfaces 210 facilitate improved interaction with
the DRAM 112, including more efficient understanding and review of each resource and
the evaluation of each resource. The machine interfaces 210 may vary widely, and any
particular implementation may include additional, fewer, and different interfaces.
[0054]     Figure 8 shows an example resource analysis result interface 800. The resource
analysis result interface 800 displays result rows (e.g., rows 802, 804). Each result row
may include a resource identifier 806; overall analysis result 808, e.g., a numerical score
determined responsive to the weights set in the customization section 708; and
dimensional analysis results 810. The dimensional analysis results 810 may include any
specific results the DRAM 112 has determined along any dimension or dimensional
characteristic. Examples in Figure 8 include: whether the resource is available, task
compatibility, the skill fitment of the resource to the task, the completion percentage of
prior tasks taken by the resource, prior rating, cultural similarity, and task controller
compatibility. A framework visualization section 812 provides a visualization of the

                                               26
particular multi-dimensional assessment framework 236 that the DRAM 112 is analyzing
for the resources.
[0055]      Figure 9 shows an example resource detail interface 900. The resource detail
interface 900 includes a resource details section 902, and a categorized details section
904. The resource details section 902, in this example, includes a profile summary section
906, a derived metrics section 908, as well as profile visualizations, e.g., the visualizations
910 and 912. The resource details section 902 may include profile text, educational
highlights, career highlights, or other details.
[0056]      The categorized details section 904 may provide a categorized tabbed display
of resource profile details that lead to, e.g., derived metrics as well as resource data
received from the sources 102 - 106. That resource data may include profile summary
data, displayed in the profile summary section 906. The derived metrics section 908 may
display selected metrics that the DRAM 112 has derived starting from the resource data
obtained from the data platforms 102 - 108. Examples of derived data include the
determinations of metrics along the multi-dimensional framework, such as overall score,
ranking, task similarity score, task controller similarity score, and the like. The resource
detail interface 900 may include any number or type of visualizations 910 and 912 to
provide, e.g., a graphical interpretation of resource characteristics.
[0057]      Figure 10 shows additional detail 1000 from the resource detail interface 900.
In this example, the skill section 1002 shows the resource skills that match to the skills
required by the task controller in the task that the task controller posted. The skill section
1002 shows those matching skills with a match indicator, in this case highlighting. The
skill section 1002 renders skill selectors, such as check boxes 1004, to allow the operator
to make selections of skills. The visualization 910 provides a graphical representation of
the tasks taken by the resource under each of the selected skills.
[0058]      Figure 11 shows additional detail from the resource detail interface 900 in the
form of an example similar task analysis interface 1100. The similar task analysis
interface 1100 includes a similar task section 1102. The interface 1100 provides, in the
similar task section 1102, narratives, skills, dates, feedback, comments, and other details
concerning tasks that the DRAM 112 has identified as similar to the posted task and
performed by the resource under evaluation.

                                             27
[0059]     Figure 12 shows additional detail from the resource detail interface 900 in the
form of an example ongoing tasks analysis interface 1200. The interface 1200 includes
an ongoing task section 1202. The interface 1200 provides, in the similar task section
1202, narratives concerning ongoing tasks handled by the resource, including required
skills and other ongoing task descriptors.
[0060]     Figure 13 shows additional detail from the resource detail interface 900 in the
form of an example recent reviews analysis interface 1300. The interface 1300 includes
a recent reviews section 1302. The interface 1300 provides, in the recent reviews section
1302, details concerning evaluations of recent tasks taken by the resource.            The
evaluations may include details such as task title, review comments, scores or ratings,
inception and completion dates, and the like.      The interface 1300 may also include
visualizations of review data, such as the time history min/max rating visualization 1304.
[0061]     Figure 14 shows additional detail from the resource detail interface 900 in the
form of an example prior task analysis interface 1400. The interface 1400 includes a past
tasks section 1402. The interface 1400 provides, in the past tasks section 1402, details
concerning tasks previously performed by the resource.        The past task details may
include, as just a few examples, narratives describing the past task, dates worked, and
skills required, learned, or improved.
[0062]     Figure 15 shows additional detail from the resource detail interface 900 in the
form of an example summary analysis interface 1500. The interface 1500 includes a
summary section 1502. The summary section 1502 may provide details on resource
characteristics, including how well the resource matches to a particular new task along
any dimensions or metrics.       For instance, the summary section 1502 may include
feedback scores, availability scores, deadline scores, collaboration scores, skill scores,
and quality scores. Other types of summary information may be provided, including
applicable dates, minimum and maximum scores, averages, and the like.
[0063]     Figure 16 shows an example resource comparison interface 1600. A resource
identification section 1602 identifies each resource being compared. The interface 1600
renders any number or type of displays (e.g., the visualizations 1604, 1606, 1608, 1610)
that provide a side-by-side comparison of each resource along any specific selected
dimension or metric within a dimension.

                                                  28
[0064]     Figure 17 shows an example of process flow 1700 for resource analysis. In this
example, the task controller posts a task description to a sourcing platform (e.g., one of
the data platforms 102 - 108) (1). The task description includes data characterizing the
task, as examples: a text narrative describing the task, required skills, optional skills, skill
that will be learned, skill levels required, compensation, start date, end date, location, and
team composition characteristics. Resources indicate their availability for tasks, e.g., by
transmitting availability notifications to any one or more of the data platforms 102 - 108
(2). Any source of resource data, including the resource itself, may provide data
characterizing the resources to any one or more of the data platforms 102 - 108 (3). The
resource characteristics may include, as examples: skills known, skill levels, skill
evaluation scores, experience (e.g., prior task descriptions), resource location, prior task
locations,    resource     goals,   availability,    education, prior ratings,  and    cultural
characteristics.
[0065]     The task controller may set weighting preferences for the DRAM 112 to use in
determining assessments (4). The weighting preferences may include default weights to
use unless changed for a particular assessment. That is, the task controller may also set
specific weighting preferences for the DRAM 112 to apply for any given assessment.
[0066]     The DRAM 112 executes the assessment on the resources with respect to the
posted task, and delivers the assessments to the task controller via the machine
interfaces 210 (5). In response, the task controller may review and consider the resource
assessments, interacting with the machine interfaces to do so. The task controller may
then make resource selections for the task (6), and transmit the resource selections to
the data platforms 102 - 108. If the resource will take on the task, then the resource may
indicate acceptance of the task to the data platforms 102 - 108 (7).
[0067]     The DRAM 112 may execute information retrieval and text mining operations,
as examples, to match resources to tasks and determine the assessments. The DRAM
112 may apply these techniques when analyzing, e.g., text narratives of task descriptions
and resource descriptions to find matching characteristics. Figure 17 shows some
examples of processing that the DRAM 112 may perform. For instance, the DRAM 112
may obtain content descriptions such as task descriptions and resource profile narratives
(1701), and tokenize the descriptions (1702). The DRAM 112 optionally performs stop
word removed (1704), e.g., to eliminate words present on a pre-defined stop word list that

                                             29
have little or no value in matching resource characteristics to task characteristics. The
DRAM 112 may also execute term frequency-inverse document frequency (TF-IDF) as
part of ascertaining how important a word is within the content descriptions (1706). To
measure similarity, the DRAM 112 employs any desired distance measure between two
documents 'a' and 'b' represented in vector space, such as the Cosine similarity measure
(1708):
        ai   = |||| b cos 0
        cos=0
[0068]     Figure 18 shows another example of process flow 1800 for resource analysis
when integrated with a hybrid sourcing platform. Figure 18 extends the example of Figure
17. In Figure 18, an intermediate, hybrid resource data platform 1802 is implemented
between the task controller and the external data platforms 102 - 108. The hybrid
resource data platform 1802 may represent, for instance, a private company internal
system that initially receives task postings for review and consideration by company
personnel. The hybrid resource data platform 1802 may determine when and whether to
pass the task postings to the external data platforms 102 - 108, e.g., when the company
desires to extend the resource search outside of the company. In that regard, the hybrid
resource data platform 1802 receives resource characteristics from the external data
platforms 102 - 108.
[0069]     In the example shown in Figure 18, the DRAM 112 is implemented as part of
the hybrid resource data platform 1802. The hybrid resource data platform 1802 executes
the DRAM functionality to determine and report resource assessments to the task
controller. Selections of resources (or offers made to resources) for the task flow first to
the hybrid resource data platform 1802, and possibly to the external data platforms 102
108, e.g., when resources external to the company have been selected or offered a task.
       Further Examples

                                                30
[0070]     Many variations of the DRAM implementation are possible. The DRAM 112 may
include modules for determining similarity between tasks based on the task features such
as task type, duration, skills required, and so on. The DRAM 112 may also include
modules for computing similarity between task controllers. The similarity computation
modules are used for recommending resources for tasks. The DRAM 112 may also
include modules for sentiment analysis of the textual feedback given by the task controller
for the resources. The sentiment analysis identifies, e.g., whether the task controller is
satisfied with the completed task. It takes as input the textual feedback and outputs
sentiment details. Some examples of sentiments are: positive, negative, and neutral.
Furthermore, the sentiment analysis module may categorize the textual feedback based
on any number of pre-defined aspects, such as Skill, Quality, Communication,
Collaboration, Deadline and Availability based on the defined rules. Note that the DRAM
112 may determine metrics pertaining to any pre-defined set of dimensions, e.g., as show
in Figures 3 - 5.
        Combined assessment score
[0071]     In some implementations, the DRAM 112 determines a combined assessment
score for the resource under assessment. In that respect, the DRAM 112 may implement
a machine learning module trained to learn the weightings of each metric to arrive at the
final assessment score for each resource, as just one example. Expressed another way,
the DRAM 112 optionally combines determined metrics to arrive at a final assessment
score for each resource. Each metric may be given a weight to arrive at the final score.
For example, the equation below combines Availability, Skill Fitness, and Task Similarity
metrics to arrive at a final score for a the task dimension 304 according to the dimensional
component weights dcwi, dcw2, dcw3, and dcw4:
        FinalScore = dcwl* Availability + dcw2       * SkillFit + dcw3 * Experience + dcw4 *
Profile;
[0072]     More generally, the DRAM 112 may assess a resource by combining any
selected dimensions using pre-determined dimensional weights to arrive at a final

                                             31
assessment score, across any number of included dimensions, e.g., for the framework
300:
       ResourceScore = dwl* ResourceDimension + dw2 * TaskDimension + dw3             *
ControllerDimension + dw4 * TeamDimension + dw5 * GoalDimension;
[0073]     The DRAM 112 may determine or select weights (including setting default
weights) using from the machine learning algorithms or linear or logistic regression
techniques. As one example, the DRAM 112 may optimize using the following equation
with a specific optimization objective:
        Y =WO +Wl +W2f2 +... +Wf
       in which wi - represent weights, fi -dimension/metric score, Y- observed value,
e.g., selected or not selected for the task.
[0074]     The machine learning module in the DRAM 112 may, for instance, learn the
importance of each metric from the historical data about tasks and resources. The DRAM
112 may employ an online learning algorithm and the weights may be refined with each
new data sample.
       An example machine learning implementation follows:
        Input: Set of tasks and assessment metrics for all the resources who worked /
applied on those tasks.
       Output: Weights / importance of each metric that models a successful resource
selection behavior.
       Execution
       Step 1: Prepare the training data as follows:

                                              32
[0075]    For each task that has more than one potential resource, create a data point for
each resource with the following attributes:
       a) all the evaluation metrics for the resource, task, and task controller
       b) indication of whether the resource was hired for the task.
       Step 2: Apply a machine learning algorithm on the training data.
       Step 3: Returns the weights identified by the algorithm.
       Customizing assessment model
[0076]    The DRAM 112 also accepts and responds to modifications of the weights
supplied by, e.g., task controllers. For instance, a task controller may prefer to select a
resource that he has worked with in past and with which he had a good past experience.
Hence, the DRAM 112 allows the task controller to override the default weightings to
express these preferences.
       What-if analysis
[0077]    The DRAM 112 may perform what-if analyses to help assess resources if, e.g.,
the pre-defined scores and metrics are not sufficient to make a selection decision. In one
implementation, the DRAM 112 predicts the likelihood of task completion and the quality
of the completed task if done by a particular resource. The DRAM 112 may execute the
analysis on the historical data about tasks and resources, using a machine learning
module which trains models for task completion and task quality. The trained model may
predict task completion and the quality of the completed task.
[0078]    The what-if analyses allow the task controller to vary, e.g., the duration and
budget for the task to see anticipated outcomes. The task controller may then use the
anticipated outcomes to negotiate (if applicable) with the resources to reach agreement
on a set of task characteristics (e.g., duration and budget) that achieve a beneficial
outcome. The DRAM 112 responds by assessing and displaying the task completion
probability and quality of completed task for all the applicants. The DRAM 112 may
estimate and report task completion probability assuming any given resource is assigned
to a task. For any or all of the potential resources, the DRAM 112 may determine this
probability. The system operator, through an operator GUI, can vary the task duration,

                                             33
budget, skills, and system displays the revised task completion probability for each
resource based on a machine learning model trained from the past data. The DRAM 112
may also predicts the quality of a completed task. The system operator, through an
operator GUI, can vary the task duration, budget, and skills. The DRAM 112 responds
by determining the quality of the completed task for each resource by executing, e.g., a
machine learning model trained on the prior data.
        Evaluating new resources
[0079]     Note that the DRAM 112 may obtain and analyze information available from
other sources than the data platforms 102 - 108 in its assessments. Examples of
additional information include resource public profiles on professional networks, publically
available references, and descriptions and feedback on tasks done during their academic
training or in an industry.
        Assessment as a service
[0080]     A local or cloud based hosting platform may offer the DRAM 112 as a service
subscribed to or paid for by any third party platform.
[0081]     Table 7 below provides further examples of metrics the DRAM 112 may assess
in any particular implementation, including examples of how the DRAM 112 may derive
metrics starting with certain data.
  Table 7: Example metrics for assessing resources
  Metric           Description                    How to Assess
                                                             working hours / day for a
                  whether or not the resource Available
                                                  resource id determined based on number
                  is available for the given of tasks the
                                                                  resource is doing and
  Availability    duration
                                                  estimated completion time for each task.

                                           34
                                              For    example,   suppose     resource   is
                                              working on two tasks that need to be
                                              completed in 20 days and estimated to
                                              take 40 hours. So on an average, the
                                              resource spends 2 hours on each task.
                                              Thus the remaining time available is (8
                                              (2+2) = 4 hours).
                                              % skill matched:    Number of skills that
              Matching score between the      are required by the posted task and also
              required skill and resources    possessed     by the   resource / Total
Skill Fitness skills                          number of skills required by the task.
              How the resource has been Average Rating: Average resource rating
Rating        rated in past.                  as given by others in past.
                                              Task-goal match: Percentage skills that
              What goals the resource are required by the tasks and also
              has specified for itself in     aspired as 'must have skills' by the
              information available in the    resource / Total number of skills required
Goals         resource profile.               by the task
                                              Task    completion   rate   for the   task
Task          How well the resource has controller: 100* Total tasks completed by
Controller    collaborated with the task the resource for the task controller / Total
Collaboration controller in the past          tasks completed by the resource in past
                                              Perform    sentiment   analysis    on  the
                                              written comments for the resource to
                                              score it on aspects such as: 'motivated',
                                              'works well with others', 'follows well',
              Sentiment                       'timeliness'.
              How       well      he    has
              collaborated     with  similar  Tasks completion rate for similar task
                                              controllers: 100* Total number of tasks
              task controllers in the past    completed by the resource for similar

                                             35
                                                task controllers / Total tasks completed
                                                successfully.      Similarity score may be
                                                defined based on geography, total tasks
                                                posted, total tasks completed, and other
                                                factors.
                                                Overlapping work         hours:   number of
Cultural      /                                 overlapping work hours for the resource
Geographical    Overlapping workhour            and the task controller.
                Is there a restriction on       Geographical       match:     Boolean    value
                geography      to  choose    a whether resource geography is matched
                resource.                       with task controller specified requirement
Cost of hiring  How much the resource is Cost of similar task: how much resource
- fixed time    likely to charge for the task.  has quoted in past for similar tasks.
Cost of hiring  How        much       resource
- hourly        charges per hour                Hourly rate: charge rate for the resource
                                                Similar task performance: 100* Number
                                                of   similar tasks       performed    by   the
                How many similar tasks he resource in past/ Total number of tasks
                has performed in the past       performed     by the resource in          past.
Similar    task and what were the scores Similarity is defined based on some task
experience      for those tasks.                attributes.
                                                Task completion rate: 100* Number of
Task            How many tasks resource tasks successfully completed / Total
completion      has successfully completed.     number of tasks undertaken
                                                Averages score: Average of all the
Resource                                        scores given to the resource on a select
score           Average score                   set of (e.g., all) prior tasks.
                                                Max score: Maximum score resource has
                Max score                       obtained so far.

                                            36
                                               Min score: Minimum score the resource
                 Min score                     has obtained so far.
                                               Recency of max score: Date when
                                               resource   has scored    the  maximum
                 Recency of max score          score.
                                               Average rating of the resource for last
                 Average recent score.         one year.
 Resume
 score           Educational background        Rating based on educational degrees.
                                               Number      of   skills resource     has
                 Diversity of experience       experience.
                 Awards and recognition        Score based on awards and recognition.
                 This may include cost of
                 training,         knowledge   This metric may assess skill gaps,
 Cost        of transfer, etc. for onboarding  domain knowledge, and prior experience
 onboarding      a crowd resource.             of the resource.
                                               % tasks worked with team member in
                 To capture how well the       past: percentage of tasks the crowd
 Team            crowd     resource fits with  resource has worked with any of the
 collaboration   other team member             team member in the past.
                 How well the time zone Time zone gap: min, max, and average
 Time     zone matches with other team         of time zone difference with rest of the
 compatibility   resources.                    team members.
       Determining text similarity
[0082]    In order to find the similarity between text features such as task title, task
description, resource profile overview and resource experience details, the DRAM 112
may implement a TF-IDF approach:

                                              37
         TF - IDF weight = (1 + log (termfrequency)) * log (N / Document   frequency)
[0083]      In the TF-IDF approach, 'term-frequency' represents the number of times a
search term, such as a word in a task title or task description, appears in a document,
such as a resource description. In this particular example, the approach uses a log-scaled
metric, 1 + log(term frequency), for frequency, although other frequency metrics may be
used. Note that the TF-IDF approach includes a term frequency-inverse adjustment, log
(N / document frequency). This adjustment reduces the weight score in log relation to
the number of documents in a pre-defined collection of N documents that include the
search term. As a result, common terms used in all documents (e.g., "the", "an") provide
little weight (because log(1) is 0) and are effectively filtered out in the TF-IDF calculation.
[0084]     The methods, devices, processing, frameworks, circuitry, and logic described
above may be implemented in many different ways and in many different combinations
of hardware and software.        For example, all or parts of the implementations may be
circuitry that includes an instruction processor, such as a Central Processing Unit (CPU),
microcontroller, or a microprocessor; or as an Application Specific Integrated Circuit
(ASIC), Programmable Logic Device (PLD), or Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA);
or as circuitry that includes discrete logic or other circuit components, including analog
circuit components, digital circuit components or both; or any combination thereof. The
circuitry may include discrete interconnected hardware components or may be combined
on a single integrated circuit die, distributed among multiple integrated circuit dies, or
implemented in a Multiple Chip Module (MCM) of multiple integrated circuit dies in a
common package, as examples.
[0085]     Accordingly, the circuitry may store or access instructions for execution, or may
implement its functionality in hardware alone. The instructions may be stored in a tangible
storage medium that is other than a transitory signal, such as a flash memory, a Random
Access Memory (RAM), a Read Only Memory (ROM), an Erasable Programmable Read
Only Memory (EPROM); or on a magnetic or optical disc, such as a Compact Disc Read
Only Memory (CDROM), Hard Disk Drive (HDD), or other magnetic or optical disk; or in
or on another machine-readable medium.           A product, such as a computer program

                                               38
product, may include a storage medium and instructions stored in or on the medium, and
the instructions when executed by the circuitry in a device may cause the device to
implement any of the processing described above or illustrated in the drawings.
[0086]     The implementations may be distributed. For instance, the circuitry may include
multiple distinct system components, such as multiple processors and memories, and
may span multiple distributed processing systems. Parameters, databases, and other
data structures may be separately stored and controlled, may be incorporated into a
single memory or database, may be logically and physically organized in many different
ways, and may be implemented in many different ways.                Example implementations
include linked lists, program variables, hash tables, arrays, records (e.g., database
records), objects, and implicit storage mechanisms.         Instructions may form parts (e.g.,
subroutines or other code sections) of a single program, may form multiple separate
programs, may be distributed across multiple memories and processors, and may be
implemented in many different ways.          Example implementations include stand-alone
programs, and as part of a library, such as a shared library like a Dynamic Link Library
(DLL).    The library, for example, may contain shared data and one or more shared
programs that include instructions that perform any of the processing described above or
illustrated in the drawings, when executed by the circuitry.
[0087]     Various implementations have been specifically described.           However, many
other implementations are also possible.
[0088]     Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises", and
"comprising", will be understood to mean the inclusion of a stated feature or step, or group
of features or steps, but not the exclusion of any other feature or step, or group of features
or steps.
[0089]     The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken
as an acknowledgement, or any suggestion that, the prior art forms part of the common
general knowledge.

                                                39
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.        A system for facilitating selection of a resource for a task, the system including:
          a communication interface;
    a memory including:
        a multi-dimensional assessment framework including:
                    assessment dimensions including at least a resource dimension and a
        task dimension, wherein the task dimension includes a resource experience
        dimension relating to resource experience regarding similar tasks;
                    dimensional metrics assigned to the assessment dimensions; and
                    dimensional weights for the assessment dimensions;
                    resource analysis circuitry configured to:
                     obtain, from a task controller device, task characteristics specified by
             a task controller for a task posted by the task controller device to a resource
             data platform, the posted task including a text narrative describing the task;
                     connect to the resource data platform through the communication
               interface;
                     obtain resource characteristics from the resource data platform that
          characterize two or more available resources that may be selected for the
          posted task, each resource characteristic including a text narrative describing
          the available resource;
                     determine a resource assessment for each available resource by
                     analyzing the text narrative of the posted task and each available
                     resource to determine matching characteristics, calculating a task
                     similarity score reflecting a level of similarity between a previous task
                     completed by each resource and the posted task and by executing
                     resource assessment according to:
                                the assessment dimensions and dimensional metrics in the
                     multi-dimensional assessment framework, including the task similarity
                     score; and
                                the dimensional weights; and
                                store characteristics of available resources and resource
                               assessments in separate database tables; and
          machine interface generation circuitry configured to:

                                               40
                               generate a machine interface including a resource review
                     interface that provides a visualization of available resources and
                     associated resource assessments in a display that provides a side-by
                     side comparison of the available resources and associated resource
                     assessments, the display including:
                               a customization section which enables a user to adjust one
                     or more resource assessment thresholds, and an analysis section
                     which enables a user to adjust one or more task requirement
                     thresholds,
                               wherein only the resources that satisfy the one or more
                     resource assessment and task requirement thresholds are displayed;
                               deliver the machine interface to the task controller device
                     through the communication interface; and
                                receive, from the task controller device through the machine
                     interface, a task controller selection of one of the displayed available
                     resources.
2.        A system according to claim 1, where:
          the machine interface generation circuitry is further configured to:
                     generate a customization graphical user interface including a
          preference control that changes at least one of the dimensional weights.
3.        A system according to either claim 1 or claim 2, further including:
          a hybrid data platform that hosts the resources analysis circuitry and the posted
task internal to a pre-defined organization; and
          where the resource analysis circuitry is further configured to:
                     determine whether to transmit the posted task to an external data
          platform outside of the pre-defined organization.
4.        A system according to claim 3, where:
          the resource data platform is internal to the pre-defined organization.
5.        A system according to claim 4, where:
          the resource data platform is external to the pre-defined organization; and

                                             41
the resource analysis circuitry is further configured to:
                    obtain at least some of the resource characteristics from the resource
          data platform after transmitting the posted task to the external data platform.
6.        A system according to any one of the preceding claims, where:
          the assessment dimensions include a controller dimension.
7.        A system according to any one of the preceding claims, where:
          the assessment dimensions include a goal dimension.
8.        A computer-implemented method for facilitating selection of a resource for a
task, the method including:
          establishing in memory:
                    a multi-dimensional assessment framework including:
                    assessment dimensions including at least a resource dimension and
             a task dimension, wherein the task dimension includes at least a resource
             experience dimension relating to resource experience regarding similar
             tasks;
                    dimensional metrics assigned to the assessment dimensions; and
                    dimensional weights for the assessment dimensions;
                    executing resource analysis circuitry that:
                          obtains, from a task controller device, task characteristics
                    specified by a task controller for a task posted by the task controller
                    device to a resource data platform, the posted task including a text
                    narrative describing the task;
                          connects to the resource data platform through a communication
                    interface;
                               obtains resource characteristics from the resource data
                    platform that characterize two or more available resources that may
                    be selected for the posted task, each resource characteristic including
                    a text narrative describing the available resource;
                               determines a resource assessment for each available
                    resource by analyzing the text narrative of the posted task and each
                    available resource to determine matching characteristics, calculating

                                               42
                     a task similarity score reflecting a level of similarity between a previous
                     task completed by each resource and the posted task, and by
                     executing resource assessment according to:
                                          the assessment dimensions and dimensional
                                metrics in the multi-dimensional assessment framework
                                including the task similarity score; and
                                          the dimensional weights; and
                                stores characteristics of available resources and resource
                                assessments in separate database tables; and
          executing machine interface generation circuitry to:
                     generate a machine interface including a resource review interface
          that provides a visualization of available resources and associated resource
          assessments in a display that provides a side-by-side comparison of the
          available resources and associated resource assessments, the display
          including:
                                a customization section which enables a user to adjust one
                     or more resource assessment thresholds, and
                                an analysis section which enables a user to adjust one or
                     more task requirement thresholds,
                                wherein only the resources that satisfy the one or more
                     resource assessment and task requirement thresholds are displayed;
                     and
                     deliver the machine interface to the task controller device through the
          communication interface; and
                     receive, from the task controller device through the machine interface,
          a task controller selection of one of the displayed available resources.
9.        A method according to claim 8, further including:
          generating a customization graphical user interface including a preference
control that changes at least one of the dimensional weights.
10.       A method according to either claim 8 or claim 9, further including:
          hosting, in a hybrid data platform internal to a pre-defined organization, the
resources analysis circuitry and the posted task; and

                                                 43
           determining whether to transmit the posted task to an external data platform
outside of the pre-defined organization.
11.       A method according to claim 10, where:
          the resource data platform is internal to the pre-defined organization.
12.       A method according to claim 11, where:
          the resource data platform is external to the pre-defined organization; and
further including:
           obtaining at least some of the resource characteristics from the resource data
platform after transmitting the posted task to the external data platform.
13.       A method according to any one of claims 8 to 12, where:
           establishing assessment dimensions includes establishing a task controller
dimension.
14.       A method according to any one of claims 8 to 13, where:
           establishing assessment dimensions includes establishing a goal dimension.
15.       A system for facilitating selection of a resource for a task, the system including:
           a communication interface;
           a memory including:
               a   multi-dimensional        assessment    framework      including   assessment
         dimensions and dimensional metrics including:
               a   resource     dimension      configured    to    evaluate   resource   specific
           characteristics, the resource dimension defining:
                     a past rating metric; and
                     an experience metric;
                     a    task   dimension       configured     to   evaluate    resource-to-task
           compatibility, the task dimension defining:
                                an availability metric; and
                                a skill fitness metric;
                                a controller dimension configured to evaluate resource-to
                     task controller compatibility, the controller dimension defining:

                            44
                      a cultural match metric; and
                      a task controller collaboration metric;
                      a team dimension configured to evaluate resource
           to-team compatibility, the team dimension defining:
                                 a team collaboration metric; and
                                 a timezone match metric; and
           a goal dimension configured to evaluate resource goals, the
goal dimension defining:
           a skill opportunity metric; and
           dimensional      weights for the assessment          dimensions,
     including:
                      a resource dimensional weight for the resource
              dimension;
                      a task dimensional weight for the task dimension;
                      a controller dimensional weight for the controller
           dimension;
                      a team dimensional weight for the team dimension;
                     and
                     a goal dimensional weight for the goal dimension;
resource analysis circuitry configured to:
       obtain, from a task controller device, task characteristics
specified by a task controller for a task posted by the task controller
device to a resource data platform, the posted task including a text
narrative describing the task;
       connect     to   the    resource   data   platform     through   the
communication interface;
       obtain resource characteristics from the resource data platform
that characterize two or more available resources that may be
selected for the posted task, each resource characteristic including a
text narrative describing the available resource; and
       determine a resource assessment for each available resource
by analyzing the text narrative of the posted task and each available
resource to determine matching characteristics, calculating a task
similarity score using the past rating metric, the task similarity score

                                      45
          reflecting a similarity between a previous task, and by executing
          resource assessment according to:
                      the assessment dimensions and dimensional metrics in the
                multi-dimensional assessment framework including the task
                similarity score; and
                      store characteristics of available resources and resource
                assessments in separate database tables; and
                the dimensional weights; and
          machine interface generation circuitry configured to:
          generate machine interfaces including:
               a resource assessment result interface including assessment
    results for each of the two or more available resources;
             a resource detail interface for a selected resource among the two
   or more available resources, the resource detail interface including:
             a skill fitness section;
             a similar task analysis section;
             an ongoing tasks analysis section;
             a recent reviews analysis section;
             a prior task analysis section; and
             a summary analysis section; and
          a resource review interface that provides a visualization of available
resources and associated resource assessments in a display that provides a
side-by-side comparison of the available resources and associated resource
assessments, the display including:
                      a customization section which enables a user to adjust one
          or more resource assessment thresholds, and
                      an analysis section which enables a user to adjust one or
          more task requirement thresholds,
                      wherein only the resources that satisfy the one or more
          resource assessment and task requirement thresholds are displayed;
                      deliver the machine interfaces to the task controller device
          through the communication interface; and
                      receive, from the task controller device through one or more
          of the machine interfaces, a task controller selection of the displayed

                                              46
                     available resources.
16.      A system according to claim 15, where:
                                                                  J
         the team collaboration metric includes:
                                                    (   N
                                                 1    I   Ratingi,
          TeamCollaboration (w, team) -                 =1=
                                              n j=1         N
         where n is the total number of resources that part of a team, N is the total
number of tasks in which resource w has collaborated with wi (wi E team) and Rating;; is
a feedback score received by resource w in collaboration with wi on task tj;
         the task controller collaboration metric includes:
                                             Z Rating;
          CollaborationScore (tp, cw)
                                         =         N
         where N is a total number of tasks for which cw has collaborated with tp and
Rating is a feedback score given to cw by tp upon task completion;
         the cultural match metric includes:
                                       C,, n- C,,
          CulturalMatch (Ctp, Cw) =          U
         where Ctp represents a task controller of one country in collaboration with a
resource from another country Cw; and
      the skill fitness metric includes:
          SkillFitness (St,) =
                                   kiie   (SSISW)+
                                          Is
                                                              I)T * TP
                                                             "S

                                               47
       where St is a set of skills required for a task, Sw is a set of skills possessed by the
resource, T, is a Test score and Tp is a Test percentile, and Match (St, Sw) computes a
number of matched skills between St and S, and ISt| is a total number of skills required
by the task.
1a.       A system including:
          a communication interface;
    a memory including:
         a multi-dimensional assessment framework including:
                    assessment dimensions; and
                    dimensional metrics assigned to the assessment dimensions; and
                    dimensional weights for the assessment dimensions;
                    resource analysis circuitry configured to:
                     obtain task characteristics specified by a task controller for a posted
             task;
                     connect to a resource data platform through the communication
               interface;
                     obtain resource characteristics from the resource data platform that
          characterize an available resource that may be selected for the posted task; and
                     determine    a resource assessment for the available resource
                     according to:
                               the assessment dimensions and dimensional metrics in the
                     multi-dimensional assessment framework; and
                               the dimensional weights; and
                               machine interface generation circuitry configured to:
                                          generate    a   machine     interface   including  a
                               visualization of the resource assessment; and
                                          deliver the machine interface to the task controller
                               through the communication interface.
2a.       A method including:
          establishing in memory:
                     a multi-dimensional assessment framework including:
                     assessment dimensions; and

                                             48
               dimensional metrics assigned to the assessment dimensions; and
               dimensional weights for the assessment dimensions;
               executing resource analysis circuitry that:
                       obtains task characteristics specified by a task controller for a
               posted task;
                       connects to a resource data platform through a communication
               interface;
                           obtains resource characteristics from the resource data
               platform that characterize an available resource that may be selected
               for the posted task; and
                           determines       a resource assessment for the            available
               resource according to:
                                        the assessment dimensions and dimensional
                           metrics in the multi-dimensional assessment framework; and
                                        the dimensional weights; and
                                      executing machine interface generation circuitry to:
                                                 generate a machine interface including a
                                      visualization of the resource assessment; and
                                                 deliver the machine interface to the task
                                      controller through the communication interface.
3a.  A system including:
      a communication interface;
      a memory including:
          a  multi-dimensional         assessment      framework      including   assessment
    dimensions and dimensional metrics including:
          a  resource      dimension       configured     to    evaluate   resource   specific
      characteristics, the resource dimension defining:
               a past rating metric; and
               an experience metric;
               a     task   dimension        configured      to   evaluate    resource-to-task
      compatibility, the task dimension defining:
                           an availability metric; and
                           a skill fitness metric;

                           49
           a controller dimension configured to evaluate resource-to
task controller compatibility, the controller dimension defining:
                      a cultural match metric; and
                      a task controller collaboration metric;
                      a team dimension configured to evaluate resource
           to-team compatibility, the team dimension defining:
                                 a team collaboration metric; and
                                 a timezone match metric; and
           a goal dimension configured to evaluate resource goals, the
goal dimension defining:
           a skill opportunity metric; and
           dimensional     weights for the assessment         dimensions,
     including:
                      a resource dimensional weight for the resource
              dimension;
                      a task dimensional weight for the task dimension;
                      a controller dimensional weight for the controller
           dimension;
                      a team dimensional weight for the team dimension;
                     and
                     a goal dimensional weight for the goal dimension;
resource analysis circuitry configured to:
       obtain task characteristics specified by a task controller for a
posted task;
       connect to a resource data platform through the communication
interface;
       obtain resource characteristics from the resource data platform
that characterize an available resource that may be selected for the
posted task; and
       determine a resource assessment for the available resource
according to:
           the assessment dimensions and dimensional metrics in the
       multi-dimensional assessment framework; and
       the dimensional weights; and

                                   50
       machine interface generation circuitry configured to:
       generate machine interfaces including:
            a resource assessment result interface including assessment
 results for multiple of the available resources;
          a resource detail interface for a selected resource among the
available resources, the resource detail interface including:
          a skill fitness section;
          a similar task analysis section;
          an ongoing tasks analysis section;
          a recent reviews analysis section;
          a prior task analysis section; and
          a summary analysis section; and.
             a resource comparison interface presenting a side-by-side
  comparison of the multiple available resources; and
             deliver the machine interfaces to the task controller through the
  communication interface.

                                                                              <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
100
                                            110
          102                        Networks
                                                                                  106
                                                             112                                            Patent Application for: Resource Evaluation and Allocation
                     Resource Assessment System                    Networks
      Networks
                       Communication Interfaces     114
                                                                                    108
                       Assessment Engines           116
                                                                                                   1 / 18               Inventors: Alpana A. Dubey, et al.
                       Machine Interfaces           118
                 User and Query
         104     Data / Response
                                                  Networks
                                                                                                                        Attorney Docket No.: 15718-00047
                                   152
                                             Figure 1

                                                                                                            <removed-apn>                 <removed-date>
                                                   200
                                                                Communication Interfaces         202
                                                                 Transmit / Receive Circuitry   212
                                                                 WLAN | Satellite | 4G
                                                                                                               Processor(s)                218
                                                                 Antenna(s)                     214
                                       112                                                                     Memory                      220
                                                                 Tx / Rx Circuitry              216
                                                                 Ethernet | SONET / SDH                         Operating System          224
    Resource Evaluation System
                                                                 DSL| Cable
      Communication Interfaces   114                                                                            Control Parameters        226             Patent Application for: Resource Evaluation and Allocation
      Analysis Engines           116                            System Circuitry                 204            Control Instructions      222
      Machine Interfaces         118                                                                             Resource Assessment 234
                                                                I/O Interfaces                   206
                                                                                                                 Multi-dimensional
                                                                                                                                         236
                                                                Display Circuitry                208             Framework
                                                                                                                                                 2 / 18               Inventors: Alpana A. Dubey, et al.
                                                                  Machine Interfaces 210                         Framework Parameters 238
                    Networks
                                                                                                                 Machine Interface
User and Query                                                                                                                           240
                                                                                                                 Generation
Data / Response
                                             108                                                                                                                      Attorney Docket No.: 15718-00047
                  152
                                                                                       Resource
                                                                Resource Data
                                                                                      Assessments
                                                          228                 230
                                                         Technical Data Table Structures              232
                                                                        Figure 2

                                                                                                                     <removed-apn>                  <removed-date>
300                                                                     Resource Multi-
                                                                      dimensional Analysis
                                                                          Framework
            302          Resource                    Task                            Controller                       Team                       Goal
                         Dimension        304      Dimension           306           Dimension           308        Dimension         310      Dimension
                 Resource                 Resource  Task               Resource  Task                    Resource  Team
                                                                                                                                      Resource Goals
 312           Characteristics             Compatibility              Controller Compatibility               Compatibility                                                 Patent Application for: Resource Evaluation and Allocation
                                          314                                                              318                        320
                                                                       316
                                                                                                                          Team                  Important Skill
       Past Rating         Total Hours                 Availability                      Cultural Match
                                                                                                                      Collaboration              Opportunity
                                                                                                                                                                  3 / 18               Inventors: Alpana A. Dubey, et al.
                             Work                                                        Task Controller                Timezone                Compensation
        Education                                     Skill Fitness
                           Experience                                                     Collaboration                   Match                    Goals
          Billed                                      Similar Task                     Similar Task Controller
                           Billing Rate                                                      Experience
       Assignments                                    Experience
                                                                                                                                                                                       Attorney Docket No.: 15718-00047
         Recent                                         Profile
                                                                                        Timezone Match
         Rating                                        Overview
                                                                               Figure 3

                                                                                                                      <removed-apn>                  <removed-date>
400
                                                                   Resource Multi-
                                                                 dimensional Analysis
                                                                     Framework
  302           Resource                             Task                             Controller                       Team                       Goal
                Dimension               304        Dimension           306            Dimension           308        Dimension         310      Dimension
        Resource                          Resource  Task                Resource  Task                    Resource  Team
                                                                                                                                       Resource Goals
      Characteristics                      Compatibility               Controller Compatibility               Compatibility                                                 Patent Application for: Resource Evaluation and Allocation
                  Past Rating   Availability          Skill Fitness                                                        Team                  Important Skill
                                                                                          Cultural Match
                                                                                                                       Collaboration              Opportunity
                                  Profile             Similar Task
                                                                                                                                                                   4 / 18
                   Education
                                                                                                                                                                                        Inventors: Alpana A. Dubey, et al.
                                 Overview             Experience                          Task Controller                Timezone                Compensation
                                                                                           Collaboration                   Match                    Goals
                                 Cost of
                  Experience                           Hiring cost                      Similar Task Controller
                                Onboarding
                                                                                              Experience
                                                                                                                                                                                        Attorney Docket No.: 15718-00047
                                                                                         Timezone Match
                                                                               Figure 4

                                                                                                                   <removed-apn>                  <removed-date>
500
                                                                   Resource Multi-
                                                                 dimensional Analysis
                                                                     Framework
  302           Resource                             Task                              Controller                   Team                       Goal
                Dimension               304        Dimension            306            Dimension        308       Dimension         310      Dimension
        Resource                          Resource  Task                 Resource  Task                Resource  Team
                                                                                                                                    Resource Goals
      Characteristics                      Compatibility                Controller Compatibility           Compatibility                                          Patent Application for: Resource Evaluation and Allocation
                                                      Domain Specific
                  Past Rating   Availability                                                                            Team
                                                        Capability
                                                                                                                    Collaboration
                                 Cost of               Similar Task
                                                                                                                                                         5 / 18
                  Experience
                                                                                                                                                                              Inventors: Alpana A. Dubey, et al.
                                Onboarding             Experience                          Task Controller            Timezone
                                                                                            Collaboration               Match
                                                        Hiring cost
                                                                                          Timezone Match
                                                                                                                                                                              Attorney Docket No.: 15718-00047
                                                                                Figure 5

                                                                                                                             <removed-apn>             <removed-date>
              610                                                   200          Communication Interfaces         202            Processor(s)              218
                                                                                  Transmit / Receive Circuitry   212             Memory                    220
                          602                                                     WLAN | Satellite | 4G
 Resource                                                                                                                         Operating System        224
Data Source                                                                       Antenna(s)                     214
                    608                                                                                                           Control Parameters      226
                                                         Networks                 Tx / Rx Circuitry              216
                                                                                  Ethernet | SONET / SDH                          Control Instructions    222
                                                                                  DSL| Cable
                                                                                                                                   Resource Analysis     234
                                                                                 System Circuitry                 204              Multi-dimensional
 Resource                                                                                                                                                236
                                                                                                                                   Framework
                                                                                                                                                                          Patent Application for: Resource Evaluation and Allocation
Data Source                       606
                                                                                 I/O Interfaces                   206
                                                                                                                                   Framework Parameters 238
                          612                          614
                                                                                 Display Circuitry                208              Machine Interface
                                                                                                                                                         240
              Testing               Development                                                                                    Generation
                                                                                   Machine Interfaces 210                                                        6 / 18               Inventors: Alpana A. Dubey, et al.
      Platforms consuming resource analysis services
                                                                                 Internal Talent
                                                                               604
                                                                                                                                                                                      Attorney Docket No.: 15718-00047
                                                                                                        Resource
                                                                                 Resource Data
                                                                                                       Assessments
                                                                           228                 230
                                                                          Technical Data Table Structures              232
     600
                                                                                     Figure 6

                                                                                                                                     <removed-apn>                       <removed-date>
700
             Dashboard
            Task                       706     704     Candidate List           750
             Looking for an experienced
             full stack developer to build
             responsive web platform for
             scheduling and booking.
             Platform should include
             backend and frontend and
                                                                   Quick View                          Quick View                        Quick View                        Quick View
              have filter on search based
             on location/time and more...                  Junie                   710        Rohit                             Aftab                             Hafiz
                                      Edit         Highly Recommended                  Highly Recommended                Highly Recommended                   Recommended
      708
                                              Task Compatibility                  Task Compatibility                Task Compatibility                Task Compatibility
            Recommendation Preference
                                              Performance                         Performance                       Performance                       Performance
              Score (Show Greater Than)
                                              Controller Compat.                  Controller Compat.                Controller Compat.                Controller Compat.
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Patent Application for: Resource Evaluation and Allocation
                                              Team Compatibility                  Team Compatibility                Team Compatibility                Team Compatibility
      712    Task Compatibility
                                              Goal                                Goal                              Goal                              Goal
      714                                             Compare Candidate                   Compare Candidate                  Compare Candidate                 Compare Candidate
             Client Compatibility
                                                                                752                                                                                                     7 / 18               Inventors: Alpana A. Dubey, et al.
      716    Team Compatibility
      718    Resource Characteristic
                                                                   Quick View                          Quick View                        Quick View                        Quick View
      720      Goal                                       Sergii                              Ashutosh                          Jahirul                         Slaven
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Attorney Docket No.: 15718-00047
                                                      Recommended                         Recommended                     Not Recommended                   Not Recommended
                            View Set
      722                                     Task Compatibility                  Task Compatibility                Task Compatibility                Task Compatibility
             Analysis                 724     Performance                         Performance                       Performance                       Performance
                                              Controller Compat.                  Controller Compat.                Controller Compat.                Controller Compat.
             Duration
                                              Team Compatibility                  Team Compatibility                Team Compatibility                Team Compatibility
                                              Goal                                Goal                              Goal                              Goal
      726   Budget
                                                       Compare Candidate                   Compare Candidate                 Compare Candidate                 Compare Candidate
            $0 $100 $200 $300 $400
      728
                                    Analyze                                                              Compare Load More
                                                                                                Figure 7

                                                                                                                                  <removed-apn>                           <removed-date>
800
                                                                    810
            Dashboard
                                                                   810
                                 806       808                                                                                                      Search
            Show    10      entries
                            Name                                                 Worked On                         Completion
            Rank                           System Score        Available                           Skill Format                   Past Rating Cultural Match         Client Similarity
                                                                                Similar Tasks                         Rate
                                                                                                                                                  Not Matching
            1                              10.9375           Not Available       Null            0.25             100               5                                  Null
                                                                                                                                                    Time Zone
      802                                                                                                                                         Not Matching
            2                              2.4375             Available          Null             0.25            0                 4.6                                Null
                                                                                                                                                   Time Zone                                      Patent Application for: Resource Evaluation and Allocation
      804    Showing 1 to 2 of 2 entries                                                                                                                        Previous 1 Next
                                                                                   Resource Multi-dimensional Analysis Framework
                Set Preference         Default Preference
                                                                     Resource                                           Task
                                                                     Dimension                                        Dimension
                                                                                                                                                                                         8 / 18               Inventors: Alpana A. Dubey, et al.
                                                             Resource                                     Resource  Task                   Resource  Task
                                                           Characteristics                                 Compatibility                  Controller Compatibility
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Attorney Docket No.: 15718-00047
                                                                                                                        Domain Specific
                                                                          Past Rating           Availability
                                                                                                                          Capability
                                                                                                 Cost of                 Similar Task
                                                                          Experience                                                                          Cultural Match
                                                                                                Onboarding               Experience
                                                     812
                                                                                                                          Hiring cost                         Task Controller
                                                                                                                                                               Collaboration
                                                                                            Figure 8

                                                                                                                             <removed-apn>                            <removed-date>
900
             Resource Details
                                                                                                                                                    Profile Summary
                                       Overview                                                                                                     Total projects:11          906
                                                                                                                                                    Projects completed
                                                                                                                                                    successfully: 9
                                        Java,Spring,AngularJS,Apache POI,            Educational Highlights               Career Highlights         Ongoing projects: 2
                                        MongoDB, My Sql, Sql Server......
                                                                                               : University of Virginia   SKILL                    Projects Completion
                                                                                       School
                                                                                       Area                                       Java Certified   Rate: 100%
                                            I have 8+ years experience in                     : Software Engineering
                                                                                               : Masters                          Professional      Past rating:
            Rohit                        java/JEE Developer/Tech Lead/Architect. Degree
            Ludhiana,India               I am having expertize on Core Java, J2EE, From Date : 1/1/1994                                             Ranking among Candidates         908
                                          Multithreading, Spring MVC, Struts 1.2/2.0, To Date  : 1/1/1996                 SPECIAL
             UTC+05:30 Mumbai,
             Kolkata, Chennai,            Hibernate/JPA,Web Services, XML, AJAX,                                                     2014                     Ranked number 2
            New Delhi                    JSON, AngularJS, ExtJS, JQuery,HTML5,                                                                           System Score of 13.58                Patent Application for: Resource Evaluation and Allocation
            Billing Rate $19              CSS3, javascript, JSP, Servlet, JSTL, Tiles,                                                                   Has task similarity score
                                         MySQL,Oracle, Patterns: programsji                                                                              of 1
      902   Score 13.58   Rank 2
                                                                                                                                                         With 0.25 matching skills
                                                                                                                                                         Currently Available
                                                                                                                                                      Client Similarity score is 2
      904
                                                                                                                                                         Has matching time zone      9 / 18               Inventors: Alpana A. Dubey, et al.
                                                                                                                                                         Collaboration Score null
              Skill Fitness    Similar Tasks    Resume     Past Tasks   Ongoing Tasks       Recent Reviews    Summary
               Skills
                  c#                                                                        910     100
                                                                                                     90
                  java                                                                               80
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Attorney Docket No.: 15718-00047
                                                                                                     70
                   spring-framework                                                                  60
                                                                                                     50
                  javascript                                                                         40
                                                                                                     30
                  jsp                                                         C#                     20
                                                                                                     10
                  angularjs                                                   java                    0
                                                                                                    January    February   March       April        May         June        July
                  jdbc                                                         spring-framework
                                                                                                                                                                   Task Taken
                                                                               javascript           912                                                            Task Completed
                  Required skill      Profile skill   Refresh       Task taken in the each skill      Task Taken v/s Successful
                                                                                        Figure 9

                                                                                         <removed-apn>              <removed-date>
1000
              Skill Fitness   Similar Tasks    Resume   Past Tasks   Ongoing Tasks Recent Reviews Summary
       1002
                  Skills
                     c#                                                                                                                Patent Application for: Resource Evaluation and Allocation
          1004
                     java
                     spring-framework
                                                                                                                             10 / 18               Inventors: Alpana A. Dubey, et al.
                     javascript
                     jsp
                     angularjs                                                                            c#                                       Attorney Docket No.: 15718-00047
                                                                                                          java
                     jdbc                                                                                 spring-framework
                                                                                                           javascript
                     Required skill   Profile skill       Refresh
                                                                                      Task taken in each skill
                                                                                                                    910
                                                                 Figure 10

                                                                                           <removed-apn>             <removed-date>
1100
                 1102
       Skill Fitness Similar Tasks   Resume     Past Tasks    Ongoing Tasks     Recent Reviews     Summary
              Java Spring Web Developer Position (Part-Time, Work Remotely)                                  Completed
        We are a software development house focused on building B2B web app's. Our upcoming project is a mo bile +
        web application which will track users location users GPS for various purposes. Client and Server w ill be cleanly             Patent Application for: Resource Evaluation and Allocation
        separated, with the client only communicating to the back-end via APIs following the REST specifica tion. We
        require an experienced java back-end web developer, skilled at the following
        technologies/frameworks/methodologies: -- Critical skill sets (MUST-HAVES) -- - java + Spring Framework + Strong
        understanding of MVC pattern - Spring Boot - Spring Security - Spring Data JPA - Hibernate ORM - My SQL DB
        usage & management - REST web development pattern (proper use of GET/POST/PATCH/ect) - Writing APIs for
        Single Page Applications built on Javascript frameworks like AngularJS, EmberJS, etc - Git for versioning -- Other   11 / 18               Inventors: Alpana A. Dubey, et al.
         Important skill sets More
           Skills : core-java,hibernate,html,javascript,node.js,spring-framework,website-development,
           Date : 8/5/2015 to 1/25/2016
                                                                                                                                                   Attorney Docket No.: 15718-00047
           Feedback :
           Comment :
                                                                Figure 11

                                                                                           <removed-apn>              <removed-date>
1200
                                                       1202
       Skill Fitness   Similar Tasks Resume     Past Tasks Ongoing Tasks        Recent Reviews Summary
        Writing SQL Server 2008 Queries - Urgent Response Required - start today                                      Active
         I manage an Access MS 2007 front end. SQL Server back end for our organization but do not have timeto make
        the changes need. Also i have little experience in SQL code writing - only know access-style SQL and VBA. Urgent
         examples are writing a trigger to update Duration in a timesheet table, based on the next start time if there is one,             Patent Application for: Resource Evaluation and Allocation
        otherwise Now(), etc. More
            Skills Required: database-design,database-programming,sql
                                                                                                                      Active
         Java software Developer
                                                                                                                                 12 / 18               Inventors: Alpana A. Dubey, et al.
         A continunacion descripcion de job en ingles y espanol job Description in Spanish and English ahead Hola.
         Estamos buscando un programador semi-senior, con conocimiento de: * Java * * Spring framework * * J PA *
         * Hibernate * * SQL * * JSP * Web services para ayudarnos a desarrollar varios proyectos ya en marcha. Nos
        interesa contratar a alguien en forma horaria. Vamos a usar este trabajo como una prueba, pero tene mos
        muchisimo trabajo por delante, asi que si haces las cosas bien, podes esperar estabilidad laboral por largo tiempo.
         Esperamos dedicacion, comunicacion y responsabilidad. Tener experoencia en repositorios de codigo c omo                                       Attorney Docket No.: 15718-00047
         Subversion (SVN) o GIT es algo que valoramos. Tambien es un plus si sabes como moverte en un entorno Linux.
         Necesitamos que puedas hablar fluidamente espanol o ingles, para que podamos darte directivas para el trabajo.
        Deberi More
          Skills Required: hibernate,java,jpa,jsp,spring-framework,sql,web-services,
                                                              Figure 12

                                                                                      <removed-apn>             <removed-date>
1300
                                                                    1302
       Skill Fitness   Similar Tasks Resume   Past Tasks   Ongoing Tasks Recent Reviews Summary
                                                                             1304
                                         2/22/2016 to 2/23/2016    5.00
       Title :spring code modification                             4.95
       Comment :                                                   4.90
       Score :                                                     4.85
                                                                   4.80
                                                                                                                                 Patent Application for: Resource Evaluation and Allocation
                                           2/8/2016 to 2/9/2016    4.75
       Title :spring coding                                        4.70
       Comment :                                                   4.65
       Score :                                                     4.60
                                                                   4.55
                                         8/5/2015 to 1/25/2016     4.50                                                13 / 18               Inventors: Alpana A. Dubey, et al.
       Title :Java Spring Web Developer Position (Part-Time,          2016                                      2015
       Work Remotely)                                                                                     Max Rating
       Comment :                                                                                          Min Rating
       Score :                                                                      Min and Max ratings
                                         6/17/2015 to 7/28/2015                                                                              Attorney Docket No.: 15718-00047
       Title :Writing SQL Server 2008 Queries - Urgent Response
       Required - start today
       Comment :
                                                             Figure 13

                                                                                          <removed-apn>             <removed-date>
1400
                                          1402
       Skill Fitness   Similar Tasks Resume      Past Tasks   Ongoing Tasks Recent Reviews Summary
       Programming Snippets for Education Startup                                                            Completed
       We are a education startup based in London, UK. You can demo our product at
       http://www.codebashing.com/sql_demo What we are looking for ? Our requirement is very simple: 1. We will
       provide you with 20 code snippets written in Java 2. These code snippets are maximum 20-25 lines ea ch and the                  Patent Application for: Resource Evaluation and Allocation
       code sample shows a software security bug. - We would like you to convert thes 20 code snippets into: - SPRING
       MVC code snippets - GO code snippets - PLAY Framework code snippets - We would also require for these 20 code
       snippets a security fix. - In short, we require 20 code snippets showing the bug (vulnerable code snippets), and 20
       code snippets showing the correct fixes (fixed code snippets) - The best way to understand what we are after is to
       see our demo at http://www.codebashing.com/sql_demo           More
                                                                                                                             14 / 18               Inventors: Alpana A. Dubey, et al.
       Skills Required:     null
                                                                                                              Completed
       Update Existing Java command line tool latest Smartsheet API
       Looking for a Java and API expert to upgrade our existing Java command line tool Backup Utility from Smartsheet
       API 1.1 to API 2.0. Candidate will need to be an expert in Java and APIs (specifically REST with JSON). Backup                              Attorney Docket No.: 15718-00047
       Utility: https://github.com/smartsheet-platform/backup-java API Documentation:
        http://smartsheet-platform.github.io/api-docs/ More
       Skills Required: json,rest
                                                                Figure 14

                                                                                           <removed-apn>            <removed-date>
1500
                                                                                           1502
       Skill Fitness   Similar Tasks Resume     Past Tasks    Ongoing Tasks Recent Reviews Summary
       Average Feedback Score
                                                                                Maximum Feedback score received is 5
       Average Availability Score             Availability Score 5.00
                                                                                                                                   Patent Application for: Resource Evaluation and Allocation
                                                                               Maximum Feedback score received is 4.6
       Average Deadline Score                  Deadline Score 5.00
                                                                                  Has Experience Score of 1.00
       Average Collaboration Score        Collaboration Score 5.00             Has Interview Score of NaN and resume
       Average Skill Score                      Skill Score 4.89               score of NaN                              15 / 18               Inventors: Alpana A. Dubey, et al.
                                                Quality Score 4.78             Recent feedback score of 5 was received
       Average Quality Score
                                                                               on 3/31/2016
                                                                                                                                               Attorney Docket No.: 15718-00047
                                                                   Figure 15

                                                                                      <removed-apn>                   <removed-date>
1600
       Compare Candidates
                     Rohit                                Aftab                                       Hafiz
                     Ludhiana, India                      Rawalpindi, Pakistan                        Lahore, Pakistan
                     Billing Rate $19                     Billing Rate $10                            Billing Rate $20
                     Score13.58                           Score13.57                                 Score12.43
       1602          Rank 2                               Rank 3                                     Rank 4
                                                    Selected Candidates
       1604                                        3
                                                                                                                                     Patent Application for: Resource Evaluation and Allocation
                                                   2
                                                   1
                                                                                                                           16 / 18               Inventors: Alpana A. Dubey, et al.
                      Task Compatibility
                                                   0
                                                          Availability     Profile         Skill         Similar
                                                                          Overview        Matching       Tasks
         2
                                                   1606                  Task Compatibility Details
                                                                                                                                                 Attorney Docket No.: 15718-00047
         1                                                                       Rating
                                                  1610
         0
                   Client       Time Zone
       1608      Similarity      Match                       Quality                                 Completion
                                                             Score                                     Score
              Task Poster compatibility Details
                                                                               Experience
                                                          Figure 16

                                                                                                                           <removed-apn>                 <removed-date>
1700
                                                                 102 -108
                         1                                                                                         Resources indicated as
                                                                             Resource Data                2
                              Post a task to sourcing platform                                                     availability for projects
                                                                               Platforms
                                                                                                          3        Resource data submitted
                                                                                                                   to data platforms
                                                                                                                                               1701
                                                                                                    Obtain content descriptions such as                                     Patent Application for: Resource Evaluation and Allocation
                                                                   112                              task description, profile description      1702
                         4
                              Specify default and custom                                            Tokenization                               1704
                              preferences for weighing metrics
                                                                            Resource
                                                                                     234            Stop words removal                         1706
       Task Controller                                                      Analysis
                         5 Determine assessments and deliver                                                                                          Resources
                                                                                                                                                                  17 / 18               Inventors: Alpana A. Dubey, et al.
                           them to controller machine interfaces            Machine Interface       TF-IDF vectorizer/ Set-of-words            1708
                                                                            Generation 240
                                                                                                    Evaluate selected distance
                                                                                 DRAM
                                                                                                    measure, e.g., Cosine similarity
                                                                                                                                                                                        Attorney Docket No.: 15718-00047
                                                                  102 -108
                         6                                                   Resource Data
                             Controller resource selection                                                    7 Resource Decision
                                                                               Platforms
                                                                                        Figure 17

                                                                                                                        <removed-apn>                  <removed-date>
1800
                                                                  1802                       102 -108
                         Post a task to hybrid                                                                          Resources indicated as
                         sourcing platform                                 Hybrid Data                  Resource Data   availability for projects
                                                                            Platform                      Platforms
                                                                                                                        Resource data submitted
                                                                                                                        to DRAM
                                                                                                                                                                          Patent Application for: Resource Evaluation and Allocation
                                                                                112
                         Specify default and custom
                         preferences for weighing metrics                Resource
                                                                                      234
                                                                         Analysis
       Task Controller
                                 Determine assessments and deliver       Machine Interface                                                          Resources
                                                                                                                                                                18 / 18               Inventors: Alpana A. Dubey, et al.
                                 them to controller machine interfaces   Generation 240
                                                                          DRAM in Hybrid
                                                                           Data Platform
                                                                                                                                                                                      Attorney Docket No.: 15718-00047
                                                                  1802                       102 -108
                         Controller resource selection                     Hybrid Data                  Resource Data          Resource Decision
                                                                            Platform                      Platforms
                                                                                      Figure 18

