                                     ABSTRACT
        A nappy accessory including a pouch attached or attachable to a nappy, and
  a change mat located in the pouch.
5

      215
               10
20
            22
   FIGURE 2

                                               -1
                                    A NAPPY ACCESSORY
                                     FIELD OF INVENTION
          The present invention relates to a nappy accessory. Reference will be made
 5 in the specification to the use of the invention with respect to nappies. The patent
   specification describes this use but it is by way of example only and the invention is
   not limited to this use.
                              BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
 0         Nappies are primarily worn by infants and toddlers, and typically require
   changing multiple times a day.
          A problem arises when a parent or carer is traveling with a child and the
   nappy requires changing.
          To effectively change a nappy a parent or carer typically requires wipes in
 5 addition to a spare nappy. To address this problem, parents and carers of infants
   and toddlers typically carry a nappy bag with spare nappies, wipes and other
   accessories to help them change a soiled nappy.
           Nappy bags are typically quite large and include spare nappies, paper towels,
   wet wipes, barrier cream or powder, a changing mat and rubbish bags. Such nappy
 0 bags are typically kept in a car or with a pram or stroller or the like.
           It is impractical for parents or carers to always carry a nappy bag and
   problems can arise when a nappy requires changing and the nappy bag is not within
   easy reach.
25                               OBJECT OF THE INVENTION
           It is an object of the present invention to overcome or at least alleviate one or
   more of the above mentioned problems with changing nappies and/or provide the
   consumer with a useful or commercial choice.
30                              SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
           In one aspect, the present invention broadly resides in a nappy accessory
   including
          a pouch attached or attachable to a nappy; and
          a change mat located in the pouch.

                                               -2
           The pouch is preferably openable to enable access to the contents of the
   pouch.     Preferably the pouch is sealed prior to being opened by a user.      In one
   embodiment, the pouch is resealable. In one embodiment, the pouch is resealable
   using an adhesive strip. In another embodiment, the pouch is resealable using a
 5 hook and loop fastener. In a further embodiment, the pouch is resealable using a
   plastic zipper opening.
           In one embodiment, the pouch has a weakened portion which enables a user
   to open the pouch.       The weakened portion is preferably a perforated portion.
   Preferably the pouch has a perforation to enable a user to open the pouch along the
 0 perforation.
           In one embodiment, the pouch is attached to the nappy. Preferably the pouch
   is glued to a nappy. In another embodiment, the pouch is heat welded to the nappy.
           In one embodiment, the pouch includes an adhesive portion. Preferably the
   pouch includes a removable backing to expose the adhesive portion. Preferably the
 5 pouch is attachable to a nappy by adhering the adhesive portion to a portion of the
   nappy.
           In one embodiment, the pouch is releasably attachable to a nappy.
   Preferably, the pouch includes a hook fastener portion. Preferably the hook fastener
   is adapted to releasably attach the pouch to a nappy. Preferably the hook fastener
 0 portion releasably attaches to fibres of the external fabric of the nappy.
           In one embodiment, the pouch includes one or more internal pockets. The
   one or more internal pockets preferably assist in retaining the contents of the pouch
   in position.
           The change mat is preferably a plastic change mat.           The change mat is
25 preferably located in the pouch in a folded configuration. Alternatively, the change
   mat can be located in the pouch in a rolled-up configuration.          The change mat
   preferably includes a drawstring.    The drawstring is preferably located adjacent a
   periphery of the change mat. Preferably a portion of the change mat is folded over
   to contain the drawstring. The folded over portion preferably includes one or more
30 apertures to access the drawstring.       In a preferred embodiment, the folded over
   portion includes two apertures to access the drawstring. Preferably the drawstring
   can be pulled to convert the change mat into a bag.         In the embodiment with two
   apertures to access the drawstring, the drawstring can be pulled from both of the

                                             -3
   apertures to convert the change mat into a bag, and the two loops of drawstring
   extending from the apertures can be tied together to securely close the bag.
           In one embodiment, the change mat is releasably attached to an inside
   portion of the pouch.       Preferably the change mat includes a tab attached or
 5 attachable to an inside portion of the pouch. Preferably the tab is tearable to detach
   the change mat from the pouch.
          The nappy accessory preferably includes one or more wipes located in the
   pouch. In one embodiment, the one or more wipes are one or more paper towels or
   tissues.
 O        The nappy accessory preferably includes one or more wet wipes located in
   the pouch.
          The nappy accessory preferably includes one or more packets of barrier
   cream and/or baby powder located in the pouch. Preferably the baby powder is a
   corn starch based baby powder.
 5         In one embodiment, the nappy accessory preferably includes one or more
   gloves located in the pouch.      Preferably the nappy accessory includes a pair of
   gloves.
           In another aspect, the present invention broadly resides in a nappy accessory
   including
 0        a plastic change mat having a drawstring located adjacent a periphery of the
   change mat,
          wherein in use pulling the drawstring converts the change mat to a bag.
          The nappy accessory preferably further includes a pouch attachable or
   attached to a nappy, the pouch housing the change mat prior to use.
25         Preferably the change mat is housed in the pouch in a folded condition.
           In a further aspect, the present invention broadly resides in a nappy
   accessory including
          a pouch attached or attachable to a nappy; and
          one or more wipes located in the pouch.
30         In another aspect, the present invention broadly resides in a nappy including
          a pouch attached to the nappy; and
          a change mat located in the pouch.
          The features described with respect to one aspect also apply where
   applicable to all other aspects of the invention. Furthermore, different combinations

                                              -4
   of described features are herein described and claimed even when not expressly
   stated.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 5         In order that the present invention can be more readily understood reference
   will now be made to the accompanying drawings which illustrate a preferred
   embodiment of the invention and wherein:
           Figure 1 is a schematic view of a nappy and a nappy accessory according to
   an embodiment of the present invention;
 0         Figure 2 is a schematic view of the nappy accessory of Figure 1 attached to
   the nappy of Figure 1;
           Figure 3 is a schematic view of the contents of the nappy accessory of Figure
   1;
           Figure 4 is a schematic view of a change mat according to an embodiment of
 5 the present invention; and
           Figure 5 is a schematic view of the change mat of Figure 4 converted to a
   bag.
              DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT
 0         With reference to Figures 1 and 2, there is shown a nappy 10 and a nappy
   accessory 20 according to an embodiment of the present invention. Figure 1 shows
   the location 12 where the nappy accessory 20 is attached to the nappy 10.
           The nappy accessory 20 has a pouch 22. The pouch has an adhesive portion
   on a rear side thereof (not shown) which enables the pouch 22 to be attached to the
25 nappy 10.
           The pouch 22 has an opening 24 so that contents 26 of the pouch 22 can be
   accessed.     The pouch 22 has an adhesive strip so that the opening 24 can be
   resealed.
           With reference to Figure 3, the contents 26 of the pouch 22 in figure 1 are
30 shown in more detail. The nappy accessory 20 of Figure 1 includes a plurality of
   wipes 30. The nappy accessory 20 further includes a sachet of barrier cream 32.
   The nappy accessory 20 also includes a change mat 34. The change mat 34 is
   located in the pouch 22 (as seen in figure 1) in a folded and rolled condition.

                                               -5
            Figure 4 shows a nappy accessory 200 including a change mat 340. Figure 4
   shows the change mat 340 in use with a soiled nappy 100 located on a top surface
   of the change mat 340. The change mat 340 is made from a thin plastic material so
   that it is light weight and easy to fold and/or roll up to store prior to use.
 5          The change mat 340 includes a drawstring 342 located around a periphery of
   the change mat 340. A portion of the change mat 344 is folded over to retain the
   drawstring 342.        The folded portion 344 includes apertures 346 so that the
   drawstring 342 can be accessed.
            Figure 5 shows the change mat 340 when the draw string 342 has been
 0 pulled.     The change mat 340 has now converted to a bag containing the soiled
   nappy 100.        Two opposed loops of the drawstring 342 can be tied together to
   securely close the change mat 340 so that the soiled nappy 100 is safely contained
   until the change mat 340 and the soiled nappy 100 can be properly disposed of.
 5                                        ADVANTAGES
            An advantage of a preferred embodiment of the nappy accessory includes
   having a resealable pouch to allow access to the contents of the pouch when the
   nappy is not being changed. Another advantage of a preferred embodiment of the
   nappy accessory includes having the pouch resealable and the pouch releasably
 0 attached to a nappy so that the pouch can be reused. A further advantage of the
   preferred embodiment of the nappy accessory includes a convenient way to carry
   accessories needed to change a soiled nappy.
                                           VARIATIONS
25          While the foregoing has been given by way of illustrative example of this
   invention, all such and other modifications and variations thereto as would be
   apparent to persons skilled in the art are deemed to fall within the broad scope and
   ambit of this invention as is herein set forth.
            Throughout the description and claims of this specification the word
30 "comprise" and variations of that word such as "comprises" and "comprising", are not
   intended to exclude other additives, components, integers or steps.

                                            -6
                                         CLAIMS
  1.     A nappy accessory including
         a pouch attached or attachable to a nappy; and
5        a change mat located in the pouch.
  2.     A nappy accessory as claimed in claim 1 further including one or more of: one
  or more wipes located in the pouch, one or more wet wipes located in the pouch, and
  one or more packets of barrier cream and/or baby powder located in the pouch.
0
  3.     A nappy accessory as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the change mat
  includes a drawstring located adjacent a periphery of the change mat, and wherein in
  use the drawstring can be pulled to convert the change mat into a bag.
5 4.     A nappy accessory including
         a plastic change mat having a drawstring located adjacent a periphery of the
  change mat,
         wherein in use pulling the drawstring converts the change mat to a bag.
0 5.     A nappy including a nappy accessory as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4.

<removed-date>
                          1/5
                                              10
<removed-apn>
              12
                    28              24
              22                         26
               20
                         FIGURE 1

                     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                20
                                         2/5
FIGURE 2
           22
                                    10

                <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
                              26
                             34
           32
                                        3/5
FIGURE 3

<removed-date>
                              4/5
                                    344
                      200
<removed-apn>
                                          340
                      346
                                                100
              342
              346
                                            346
                                                342
                                          346
                344
                            FIGURE 4

<removed-date>
                5/5
<removed-apn>
                          342
                         342
                                340
                                100
              FIGURE 5

