Abstract
A variable stiffness go kart axle is provided herein. The rear axle assembly is supported by two
bearing assemblies, one at each end of the axle which are attached to the main chassis rails by
welded hanger brackets and conventional threaded fasteners. A third bearing assembly is located at
the center of the axle and is supported by an additional blade style beam and bracket system
spanning the width of the chassis which is attached to the main chassis rails adjacent to the outer
bearings. At each end of the blade style beam an integrated shaft, roller bearing assembly and
bracket system allows the blade style beam to freely rotate through a 90 degree arc when controlled
by a lever mechanism or similar. When rotated to different positions the blade style beam provides a
variable reaction force to the center of the rotating axle when a load is applied via the rear wheel
and tire during cornering. The adjustment to the blade style beams angular position can be carried
out while the go kart is in motion on the race track or similar.

7r
    0c
 CT
co
            00
       F1,-

                                   AUSTRALIA
                                Patents Act 1990
                          COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                               INNOVATION PATENT
        VARIABLE STIFFNESS GO KART AXLE MECHANISM
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the
best method of performing it known to me:

                                                        1
   Problem Description
   A racing go kart is a welded tubular steel frame with a one piece hollow steel rear axle assembly.
   The non-differential design means that for a go kart to successfully turn around a corner it must
   temporarily lift the inside rear wheel. If both rear wheels are still in contact with the track surface
   the go kart will tend to steer straight or understeer.
 5
   Lifting the inside rear wheel allows the outer rear wheel to rotate at the angular velocity
   corresponding to the arc of the outer radius of the corner. The inside rear wheel is also rotating at
   the same angular velocity which is much higher than is required for the arc corresponding to the
   inner radius of the corner.
10
   Variable track surface conditions caused by a number of different factors means that a common
   method of tuning a go karts performance is by changing the rear axle stiffness or damping factor.
   This is commonly achieved by changing the wall thickness, material, heat treatment or adding an
   additional third bearing support fixed to the chassis in addition to the two primary outer bearing
15 supports. This changes the dynamic characteristic of the go kart during the cornering process and
   changes the rate and height of the inside rear wheel lift. Due to the one piece axle design and racing
   regulations which specify that suspension is not allowed, the rear axle is typically changed between
   practice sessions or races to allow the go karts performance to be changed and subsequently
   matched to the tracks conditions. If the change suits the track surface conditions a quicker lap time
20 may be achievable. Selecting the most appropriate axle for the conditions can be challenging and
   also might not suite all corners of the race track. Hence a design solution which allows the driver to
   change the stiffness and damping characteristic of the rear axle assembly from lap to lap, but also
   corner to corner is the subject of this patent.

                                                   2
Description of the Drawings
Figure 1 shows the complete rear axle assembly and blade style beam in a horizontal (flat) position
when viewed from the rear with cross section views through the centerline of the axle of the left
side bearing assembly, axle, brake disc, outer brackets, roller bearing assembly, integrated shaft,
blade style beam and third bearing assembly.
Figure 2 shows the same detail as Figure 1 however with the blade style beam in a vertical position
when viewed from the rear.
Figure 3 shows a full cross section view through the axle centerline of the complete rear axle
assembly and blade style beam when viewed from a plan perspective. The rear axle and left side
brake disc has been omitted for clarity.

                                                         3
   Before describing the embodiment of the invention in detail, it is to be understood that the
   invention is not limited in its application to the details of construction set forth in the following
   description or illustrated in the drawings. The invention is capable of other embodiments and of
   being practiced and carried out in various ways. Also, it is to be understood that the phraseology and
 5 terminology employed herein are for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as
   limiting.
   Description
   The rear axle assembly 30 is supported by two bearing assemblies 11, one at each end of the axle 10
   which are attached to the main chassis rails 12 by welded hanger brackets 13 and conventional
10 threaded fasteners 14. Each bearing assembly 11 consists of a roller bearing 15 fitted to a bearing
   housing 16.
   A third bearing assembly 17 is located at the center of the axle 10 and is supported by a blade style
   beam 18 and bracket system 19,26 spanning the width of the chassis rails 12 directly below the
   axle 10.
15
   At each end of the blade style beam 18 an integrated shaft 20 is machined. Pressed onto each
   shaft 20 is a roller bearing assembly 21 consisting of a machined housing 22 and two roller bearings
   23 which allows for rotation of the blade style beam 18 through a 90 degree arc 24. The machined
   housing 22 also has mounting holes 25 to attach the roller bearing assembly 21 to the outer
20 brackets 26.
   Each of the outer brackets 26 include mounting holes 25 which allow for the roller bearing
   assembly 22 to be attached with threaded hardware 27,27a acting as either a pin or clamped
   configuration. The outer brackets 26 are attached to the main chassis rails 12 directly below the
25 outer axle bearings 11.
   The center bracket 19 clamps the third bearing assembly 17 in place relative to the blade style beam
   18 by threaded fasteners 28. The bracket 19 is located relative to the blade style beam 18 via a
   clearance fit bushing 29 to allow for the blade style beam 18 to rotate while still being directly
30 coupled.
   When rotated to different positions the blade style beam 18 provides a variable reaction force to the
   center of the axle 10 when a load is applied via the rear wheel and tire during cornering. Hence the
   design provides a variable stiffness or variable damping rear axle assembly 30 when loaded and
35 deflecting as combined beams, with combined second moment of area (14).

                                                        4
   The mechanical attachment of the outer brackets 26 at each end of the blade style beam 18 can be
   varied between a simple supported beam or rigid mounted beam. This is achieved by using either a
   single loose fastener 27 acting as a pin or two tightened fasteners 27,27a acting as a clamp. The
 5 single loose fastener 27 option provides no further torsional stiffness to the rear of the chassis as the
   blade style beam 18 is able to pivot about either pin when the chassis is loaded with a torsional load.
   However when the axle 10 is loaded by the rear wheel and tire during cornering both pins carry the
   applied load equally. The two tightened fastener 27,27a option provides additional variable
   torsional stiffness to the rear of the chassis by rotating the blade style beam 18 to the vertical
10 position 31 should this be required.
   Clearances and free play from the outer brackets 26, center bracket 19, bearing assemblies 11,17,
   roller bearing assembly 21 and bushing 29 can be removed by applying a vertical pre-load between
   the axle 10 and blade style beam 18 prior to tightening the threaded hardware 28 located at the
15 center bearing assembly 17. Slotted clearance holes are provided to enable this feature. This ensures
   that when a load is applied to the axle 10 via the rear wheel and tire during cornering, that the load
   is transferred directly to the blade style beam 18 without having to take up any inherent clearances.
   The blade style beam 18 rotation can be controlled by a lever mechanism, linear - rotary actuator or
20 similar. This detail is not covered in the drawings however can take many forms which are not
   covered by this patent.
   The blade style beam 18 second moment of area (14)can also be varied by machining the width and
   depth of the rectangular section to suit the particular racing class or size of chassis.
25
   The outer bracket system 26 for attaching the blade style beam 18 to the main chassis rails 12 has a
   narrowed section for the purpose of packaging axle 10 mounted brake disc assemblies 32.
   The adjustment of the blade style beam 18 horizontal position to vertical 31 can be carried out while
30 the go kart is in motion on the race track or similar.
   This concludes the description. The reading of it by those skilled in the topic would bring to mind
   many alterations and modifications without departing from the spirit and scope of the description
   and associated drawings. For example, beam configuration, mounting methods, bracket design or
   actuation methods.

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

Claims
A variable stiffness go kart axle mechanism comprising:
   1. a blade style beam attached to the chassis by brackets directly below the axle outer bearings
   2. an integrated machined shaft and roller bearing housing assembly which allows the blade
       style beam to rotate through a 90 degree arc
   3. a third center mounted bearing directly coupled to the axle to share and transfer applied load
       from the rotating axle assembly

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
