                                                 Abstract
             A communication port interface facilitates downloading of torque and/or angle log
  information from an electronic torque tool to an external device. Torque and/or angle preset job
5 information may be entered in client software and uploaded from the external device to the
  electronic torque tool via the communication port interface. Additional information including
  real time clock information and wrench system parameters may be uploaded to the electronic
  torque tool via the communication port interface.
  10399661 1

       Method and System of Using an USB User Interface in an Electronic Torque Wrench
                                              Technical Field
           The present application relates to a tool for applying torque to a workpiece, and a method
   of communicating for a tool having a memory and that is adapted to respectively apply amounts
 5 of torque to work pieces.
                                              Background Art
           Precision tools, such as torque wrenches, are commonly used in automotive and industrial
   applications to apply a predetermined torque and/or angular displacement to a work piece such as
   a threaded fastener, for example. A particular torque and/or angular displacement may be
 0 specified in a job specification or work schedule to be applied to each work piece in a job. The
   precision tools are commonly adjustable and may be manually configured to apply the specified
   torque and/or angular displacement to each work piece in the job. Once a specified torque or
   angle setting is configured, the precision tool may prevent a user from exceeding a specified
   torque or angular displacement by actuating a mechanical release between the force applicator or
 5 handle of the tool and the work piece or head of the tool, for example. Alternately, the precision
   tool may simply indicate when the specified torque and/or angular displacement has been applied
   by providing a tactile, audible or visual indication, for example. For jobs that involve numerous
   different torque and/or displacement specifications, the process of resetting the tool for each
   different specification may be slow and labor intensive and introduces opportunities for errors.
20         Precision tools, such as torque wrenches, are also commonly used to measure the applied
   torque and/or angular displacement applied to a work piece. In many applications, the
   measurements of torque and/or angular displacement that are acquired by the use of such
   precision tools are manually recorded in a log for quality assurance purposes. The process of
                                                      1

   manually recording measurements in a log is also slow and labor intensive and introduces further
   opportunities for errors.
              It is to be understood that, if any prior art is referred to herein, such reference does not
   constitute an admission that the prior art forms a part of the common general knowledge in the
 5 art, in Australia or any other country.
                                                     Summary
              According to an aspect, a method of communicating for a tool having a memory and that
   is adapted to respectively apply amounts of torque to work pieces is disclosed, the method
   comprising communicably coupling an external computing device to the tool; receiving, from
 0 the external computing device, a set of preset job parameters including a torque setting and an
   identifier corresponding to the torque setting; storing, in the memory, the set of preset job
   parameters; receiving, from the external computing device, a real time clock value; configuring a
   real time clock setting of the tool based on the real time clock value; for each work piece that
   torque is applied to, time stamping a torque value representing the amount of torque applied by
 5 the tool to the work piece with a time calculated by the real time clock setting of the tool,
   representing when the tool applied the amount of torque to the work piece relative to the real
   time clock setting, thereby creating a time stamped torque value; storing, in the memory, each of
   the time stamped torque values; and communicating, to the external computing device, each of
   the stored time stamped torque values.
20            According to an aspect of the present disclosure, an electronic torque tool is configured
   with a universal serial bus (USB) interface. Client software may be executed on an external
   device such as a personal computer (PC) to populate a data set for input to the electronic torque
   tool or to receive measured data from the electronic torque tool via the USB interface. The USB
                                                          2
   10399661 1

   interface may also be used to provide real time clock settings, software updates or other
   configuration information from an external device to the electronic torque tool.
              A method according to one aspect of the present disclosure includes entering at least one
   set of preset job parameters to a computing device, such as a PC. The preset job parameters may
 5 include at least one torque setting and/or angular displacement setting and at least one identifier
   corresponding to the torque setting and/or angular displacement setting. The job parameters may
   be communicated from the computing device to electronic torque wrench via a USB interface.
              A method according to another aspect of the present disclosure includes storing a set of
   torque measurements in a memory of an electronic torque wrench and communicating the set of
 0 torque measurements from the electronic torque wrench to an external computing device via a
   USB interface.
              A method according to another aspect of the present disclosure includes receiving a real
   time clock setting from a computing device via a USB interface and configuring a clock of an
   electronic torque wrench based on the real-time clock setting. A method according to another
 5 aspect of the present disclosure includes receiving preset job parameters, tool identifiers, tool
   system parameters and/or software updates to an electronic torque tool from a computing device
   via a USB interface.
              In some forms, the method according to any of the aspects further comprises further
   comprising receiving, from the external computing device, a tool identifier that uniquely
20 identifies the tool; storing, in the memory, the tool identifier; and communicating, to the external
   computing device, each of the stored time stamped torque values and the tool identifier from the
   tool.
                                                      3
   10399661 1

              In some forms, the method according to any of the aspects further comprises receiving,
   from the external computing device, the set of preset job parameters includes receiving an
   angular displacement setting corresponding to the torque setting.
              In some forms, the method according to any of the aspects further comprises receiving,
 5 from the external computing device, the set of preset job parameters includes receiving a
   calibration factor corresponding to the torque setting.
              In some forms, the method according to any of the aspects further comprises further
   comprising configuring the tool with a minimum torque setting, a maximum torque setting, a
   minimum angle setting, and maximum angle setting.
 0            In some forms, the method according to any of the aspects further comprises configuring
   the tool with a mode selector, wherein the mode selector is selected form the group consisting of
   a torque only mode, an angle only mode, a torque then angle mode, an angle then torque mode
   and a simultaneous torque and angle mode.
 5
                                       Brief Description of the Drawings
              For the purpose of facilitating an understanding of the subject matter sought to be
   protected, there are illustrated in the accompanying drawings embodiments thereof, from an
   inspection of which, when considered in connection with the following description, the subject
20 matter sought to be protected, its construction and operation, and many of its advantages should
   be readily understood and appreciated.
              FIGURE 1 is a block diagram illustrating a torque tool in accordance with an
   embodiment of the present application.
                                                        4
   10399661 1

              FIGURE 2 is a block diagram illustrating a torque tool coupled to an external device
   according to an embodiment of the present application.
              FIGURE 3 is an example of a graphical user interface for entering set up information to
   configure preset jobs on the electronic torque wrench according to an embodiment of the present
 5 application.
              FIGURE 4 is a process flow diagram illustrating a method for entering preset job
   parameters for an electronic torque tool according to an embodiment of the present application.
              FIGURE 5 is a process flow diagram illustrating a method for communicating measured
   data from an electronic torque tool to an external device according to an embodiment of the
 0 present application.
              FIGURE 6 is a process flow diagram illustrating a method for communicating real time
   clock settings to an electronic torque tool from an external device according to an embodiment of
   the present application.
              FIGURE 7 is a process flow diagram illustrating a method of communicating preset job
 5 parameters to an electronic torque tool from an external device according to an embodiment of
   the present application.
              It should be understood that the comments included in the notes as well as the materials,
   dimensions and tolerances discussed therein are simply proposals such that one skilled in the art
   would be able to modify the proposals within the scope of the present application.
20
                                   Detailed Description of the Embodiments
              While this invention is susceptible of embodiments in many different forms, there is
   shown in the drawings, and will herein be described in detail, a preferred embodiment of the
   invention with the understanding that the present disclosure is to be considered as an
                                                       5
   10399661 1

   exemplification of the principles of the invention and is not intended to limit the broad aspect of
   the invention to embodiments illustrated.
              The present disclosure involves incorporating a universal serial bus (USB) interface into
   a tool adapted to apply torque to work pieces, such as threaded fasteners, bolts, and nuts, such as,
 5 for example, an electronic torque wrench, to provide a computer interface for the users and
   wrench manufacturers. To meet the demands of automotive, industrial applications, or quality
   control, electronic torque wrenches may be pre-loaded with sets of torque and/or angle job
   presets. An embodiment of the present disclosure includes a personal computer (PC) based
   client software tool for communicating with electronic torque wrenches. The PC based client
 0 software tool facilitates setting up the torque and/or angle jobs using a communication port
   interface, such as, for example, universal serial bus (USB), Firewire, serial, parallel, infrared,
   wireless, or Thunderbolt port.
              According to an aspect of the present disclosure, an electronic torque wrench has the
   capability to store torque and angle log information, representing respective amounts of torque or
 5 angular displacement applied to work pieces, into an internal memory such as a flash memory
   configured on the electronic torque wrench. A method for downloading the log into a computer
   system for records, archives or quality audit purposes is also disclosed.
              Referring to FIGURE 1, according to an aspect of the present disclosure, a tool adapted
   to apply torque to work pieces, such as an electronic torque wrench 100, includes a processor
20 102 and a memory 104 coupled to the processor. The tool 100 also includes interface circuitry
   106 operably coupled to a communication interface port 108, such as a universal serial bus
   (USB), Firewire, serial, parallel, infrared, wireless, or Thunderbolt port, for example. The
                                                       6
   10399661 1

   interface circuitry 106 and memory 104 may be coupled to the processor by one or more internal
   signal paths 110.
              The processor 102 facilitates communication between various components of the tool 100
   and controls operation of various electrical components of the tool 100. According to an aspect
 5 of the present disclosure, the memory 104 can store data or computer programs for use with the
   tool 100. For example, the memory 104 may be used to store preset torque and angle target
   values for use in an automatic setting, or store temporary torque and angle target values, for
   example. Without limitation, the memory 104 can include a non-transitory computer-readable
   recording medium, such as a hard drive, DVD, CD, flash drive, volatile or non-volatile memory,
 0 RAM, or any other type of data storage, for example.
              The tool 100 may also include user interface circuitry 112 coupled to the processor 102.
   The user interface circuitry 112 may include display 114 and one or more manual input devices
   116, such as a set of buttons, for example. Alternately, the display 114 and input devices 116
   may be integrated in a single device, such as a touch screen that performs both display and
 5 manual input functions. The user interface circuitry 112 may also include one or more indicators
   117 such as, for example, light emitting diodes (LEDs) coupled to the processor 102 to provide
   feedback to a user.
              According to one aspect of the present disclosure, the tool 100 also includes a torque
   sensor 118, such as strain gauge or load cell, for example, coupled to the processor 102, which is
20 adapted to measure the amount of torque applied by the tool to a work piece. The torque sensor
   118 may include signal conditioning circuitry 120, such as analog to digital converter circuitry,
   configured to convert an analog strain gauge or load cell output signal to a digital signal format
   suitable for input to or use by the processor 102, for example. An angular displacement sensor
                                                       7
   10399661 1

   122, which may be incorporated into the torque sensor 118 and which is adapted to measure the
   amount of angular displacement of the work piece, may also be coupled to the processor 102.
   The angular displacement sensor 122 may include a micro-electromechanical system (MEMS)
   gyroscope, for example.
 5            A power source 130 and clock circuitry 132 are also coupled to the processor 102. The
   power source 130 may include a source of electrical or power, such as one or more batteries, fuel
   cell, or solar cells, for example. The clock circuitry 132 may be configured to display the time,
   provide time stamp for torque and angle measurements, and/or to facilitate timing of various
   processes involved in preset torque or angle jobs, for example.
 0            In an embodiment, the display 114 can display various information for the user to view
   and interpret, for example, stored or real-time measurements of torque or angular displacement,
   presets, or other text or graphic information. By way of example, the display 114 can include a
   liquid crystal display (LCD), organic light emitting diode (OLED) display, plasma screen,
   cathode ray tube display, or any other kind of black and white or color display that will allow the
 5 user to view and interpret information.
              The indicators 117 can include structures that visually, audibly, or through tactile means,
   indicate to the user when a predetermined torque or angle target is reached. For example, the
   indicators 117 can include one or more LEDs and LCD backlight that illuminate when a preset
   torque or angular displacement is reached. Alternately, the indicators 117 can include a vibration
20 mechanism that vibrates when the preset torque or angular displacement is reached.
              Referring to FIGURE 2, according to one aspect of the present disclosure, a tool, such as
   an electronic torque wrench 202, may be coupled to an external device such as a personal
   computer 204 using a standard interface connector such as a USB cable 206, for example. This
                                                       8
   10399661 1

   allows information such as preset job parameters, calibration information, wrench system
   parameters and wrench system software updates, for example, to be input to the electronic torque
   wrench 202 from the PC 204. The connection between the electronic torque wrench 202 and the
   PC 204 also allows torque and/or angular displacement measurements, representing stored torque
 5 and/or angular application to work pieces, to be downloaded from the electronic torque wrench
   202 to a log on the PC, for example.
              Referring to FIGURES 2 and 3, the PC 204 may be configured to execute client software
   that provides a graphical user interface for entering set up information to configure preset jobs on
   the electronic torque wrench 202, for example. The client software may be configured to present
 0 one or more display screens 302 to a user for displaying the preset job settings and/or one or
   more data entry screens 304 to facilitate entry of new job settings or modifying existing job
   settings in a data set. An example of several preset job setting shown in FIGURE 3 include a job
   identifier that may be a job number or preset name as shown and a set of parameters that
   correspond to the job identifier. For each job identifier, the set of parameters may include a
 5 mode selection, a minimum torque setting, a maximum torque setting, a units selection, a
   minimum angle setting, a maximum angle setting, a batch count and a calibration factor, for
   example. The mode selector is used to configure the electronic torque wrench in a particular
   mode, such as a torque only mode, an angle only mode, a torque then angle mode, an angle then
   torque mode, and a simultaneous angle and torque mode, for example.
20            FIGURE 4 is a process flow diagram illustrating a process 400 according to an aspect of
   the present disclosure. The process may be performed by a user of a personal computer, for
   example. As shown, the process 400 begins and proceeds to step 402, which includes entering at
   least one set of preset job parameters to a computing device, such as a PC. The preset job
                                                     9
   10399661 1

   parameters may include at least one torque setting, representing the amount of torque that should
   be applied to a work piece, and at least one identifier corresponding to the torque setting. In step
   404, the method includes communicating the set(s) of preset job parameters from the computing
   device to the electronic torque wrench.
 5            According to an aspect of the present disclosure, the preset job parameters may include at
   least one angular displacement setting, representing the amount of angular displacement that
   should be applied to a work piece, corresponding to the torque setting. The preset job parameters
   may also include a calibration factor corresponding to the torque setting. Other preset job
   parameters that may be included in the set(s) of preset job parameters according to aspects of the
 0 present disclosure include minimum torque settings, maximum torque settings, minimum angle
   setting and maximum angle settings corresponding to each job identifier, for example.
              According to another aspect of the present disclosure, the set of preset job parameters
   includes a mode selector, wherein the mode selector may select a torque only mode, an angle
   only mode, a torque then angle mode, an angle then torque mode, or a simultaneous torque and
 5 angle mode.
              FIGURE 5 is a process flow diagram illustrating a process 500 according to an aspect of
   the present disclosure. The process may be performed on a tool adapted to apply torque to a
   work piece, such as an electronic torque wrench, coupled to a personal computer via a cable,
   such as universal serial bus (USB), Firewire, serial, parallel, wireless, infrared, or Thunderbolt
20 cable for example. As shown, the process 500 begins and proceeds to step 502, which includes
   storing a set of torque measurements in a memory of an electronic torque wrench. In step 504,
   the method includes communicating the set of torque measurements from the electronic torque
   wrench to an external computing device.
                                                      10
   10399661 1

              According to an aspect of the present disclosure, the set of torque measurements
   corresponds to a set of preset job parameters stored in the memory of the electronic torque
   wrench. According to another aspect of the present disclosure, communicating the set of torque
   measurements from the electronic torque wrench to an external computing device includes
 5 communicating the set of torque measurements representing the amounts of torque applied to
   work pieces by the torque wrench, from the memory of the electronic torque wrench to a
   communication port, such as a USB port, of the electronic torque wrench.
              In step 506, the method includes storing a set of angular displacement measurements in
   the memory of the electronic torque wrench. The set of angular displacement measurements
 0 corresponds to the set of preset job parameters stored in the memory of the electronic torque
   wrench. In step 508, the method includes communicating the set of angular displacement
   measurements from the electronic torque wrench to the external computing device.
              FIGURE 6 is a process flow diagram illustrating a process 600 according to an aspect of
   the present disclosure. The process may be performed on a tool adapted to apply torque to a
 5 work piece, such as an electronic torque wrench, including a communication port, such as a USB
   port, coupled to a personal computer via a communication cable, such as a USB cable, for
   example. As shown, the process 600 begins and proceeds to step 602, which includes receiving
   a real time clock setting from a computing device. In an embodiment, the real time clock can be
   used to time stamp data stored in the tool, such as, for example, the stored torque measurements
20 or stored angular displacement measurements. In block 604, the method includes configuring a
   clock of electronic torque wrench based on the real-time clock setting.
              FIGURE 7 is a process flow diagram illustrating a process 700 according to an aspect of
   the present disclosure. The process may be performed on a tool adapted to apply torque to a
                                                      11
   10399661 1

   work piece, such as an electronic torque wrench, including a communication port, such as a USB
   port, coupled to a personal computer via a communication cable, such as a USB cable, for
   example. As shown, the process 700 begins and proceeds to step 702, which includes receiving
   at least one set of preset job parameters from a computing device. The preset job parameters
 5 may include at least one torque setting and at least one identifier corresponding to the at least one
   torque setting, for example. In step 704, the method includes storing the set of preset job
   parameters in a memory of an electronic torque wrench. According to an aspect of the present
   disclosure, the set of preset job parameters may also include at least one angular displacement
   setting corresponding to the torque setting.
 0            In step 706, the method includes displaying the identifier on a display of the electronic
   torque wrench and in step 708 the method includes receiving a user input to the electronic torque
   wrench. The user input may indicate a selection of the identifier, for example. In step 710, the
   method includes configuring the electronic torque wrench with the torque setting corresponding
   to the selected identifier. In step 712, the method further includes configuring the electronic
 5 torque wrench with the at least one angular displacement setting corresponding to the selected
   identifier.
              According to an aspect of the present disclosure, a tool specific identifier such as a serial
   number and/or model number may be received from a computing device to an electronic torque
   wrench via a communication port, such as a USB port, configured on the electronic torque
20 wrench. The tool specific identifier may be stored in the memory of the electronic torque
   wrench. According to another aspect of the present disclosure, a tool software update may be
   received to an electronic torque wrench via a communication port, USB port, configured on the
   electronic torque wrench. The software update may be stored in the memory of the electronic
                                                      12
   10399661 1

   torque wrench. According to another aspect of the present disclosure, a set of wrench system
   parameters may be received to an electronic torque wrench via a communication port, such as a
   USB port, configured on the electronic torque wrench. The wrench system parameters may be
   stored in the memory of the electronic torque wrench. According to this aspect of the disclosure,
 5 an electronic torque wrench may be configured using the wrench system parameters stored in its
   memory.
              According to another aspect of the present disclosure an electronic torque tool includes a
   processor, a memory coupled to the processor, a torque sensor coupled to the processor and
   interface circuit, such as universal serial bus (USB) interface circuit, coupled to the processor.
 0 Instructions are stored in the memory and are executable by the processor to receive at least one
   set of preset job parameters from a computing device via the interface circuitry and store the set
   of preset job parameters the memory. According to aspects of the present disclosure, the preset
   job parameters may include at least one torque setting and at least one identifier corresponding to
   the torque setting. The instructions may further include instructions executable by the processor
 5 to store a set of torque measurements in the memory and communicate the set of torque
   measurements from the electronic torque tool to an external computing device via the interface
   circuitry.
              As discussed above, the tool 100 may be an electronic torque wrench. However, it
   should be understood that the tool 100 can be any mechanism for applying torque to a work
20 piece without departing from the scope of the present application. For example, and without
   limitation, the precision tool 100 can be a ratchet wrench, open wrench, monkey wrench, or any
   other tool capable of applying torque to a work piece.
                                                      13
   10399661 1

             As used herein, the term "coupled" or "communicably coupled" can mean any physical,
  electrical, magnetic, or other connection, either direct or indirect, between two parties. The term
  "coupled" is not limited to a fixed direct coupling between two entities.
             The matter set forth in the foregoing description and accompanying drawings is offered
5 by way of illustration only and not as a limitation. While particular embodiments have been
  shown and described, it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that changes, and
  modifications may be made without departing from the broader aspects of applicants'
  contribution. The actual scope of the protection sought is intended to be defined in the following
  claims when viewed in their proper perspective based on the prior art.
0
             In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention, except
  where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the word
  "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense, i.e.
  to specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or addition of
5 further features in various embodiments of the invention.
                                                      14
  10399661 1

                                                     Claims
   What is claimed is:
              1.      A method of communicating for a tool having a memory and that is adapted to
   respectively apply amounts of torque to work pieces, comprising:
 5            communicably coupling an external computing device to the tool;
              receiving, from the external computing device, a set of preset job parameters including a
   torque setting and an identifier corresponding to the torque setting; and
              storing, in the memory, the set of preset job parameters;
              receiving, from the external computing device, a real time clock value;
 0            configuring a real time clock setting of the tool based on the real time clock value;
              for each work piece that torque is applied to, time stamping a torque value representing
   the amount of torque applied by the tool to the work piece with a time calculated by the real time
   clock setting of the tool, representing when the tool applied the amount of torque to the work
   piece relative to the real time clock setting, thereby creating a time stamped torque value;
 5            storing, in the memory, each of the time stamped torque values; and
              communicating, to the external computing device, each of the stored time stamped torque
   values.
   2.         The method of claim 1, further comprising
20            receiving, from the external computing device, a tool identifier that uniquely identifies
   the tool;
              storing, in the memory, the tool identifier; and
                                                        15
   10399661 1

              communicating, to the external computing device, each of the stored time stamped torque
   values and the tool identifier from the tool.
   3.         The method of either claim 1 or claim 2, wherein receiving, from the external computing
 5 device, the set of preset job parameters includes receiving an angular displacement setting
   corresponding to the torque setting.
   4.         The method of any one of claims I to 3, wherein receiving, from the external computing
   device, the set of preset job parameters includes receiving a calibration factor corresponding to
 0 the torque setting.
   5.         The method of any one of claims 1 to 4, further comprising configuring the tool with a
   minimum torque setting, a maximum torque setting, a minimum angle setting and maximum
   angle setting.
 5
   6.         The method of any one of claims I to 5, further comprising configuring the tool with a
   mode selector, wherein the mode selector is selected from a group consisting of a torque only
   mode, an angle only mode, a torque then angle mode, and then torque mode and a simultaneous
   torque and angle mode.
20
                                                      16
   10399661 1

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                     

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                     

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                     

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                     

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                     

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                     

