     Light-Guide Device with Optical Cutoff Edge and Corresponding Production Methods
   FIELD AND BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
            The present invention relates to light-guide devices and, in particular, it concerns a light
   guide device which has a well-defined optical cutoff edge, and corresponding methods for
 5 producing such devices.
            When manufacturing optical devices, it is often desirable to provide a light guiding
   device with a complex form in which different regions have surfaces angled with selected non
   rectilinear orientations. Examples of such devices relevant to the present invention include, but
   are not limited to, light guiding elements with coupling-in configurations, and regions of
10 transition between light guiding elements with different transverse dimensions and/or different
   orientations.
            FIGS. 1A and 1B illustrate two examples of devices which include a light guiding
   element together with a coupling-in prism corresponding to FIGS. 3 and 7, respectively, of PCT
   Publication No. WO 2015/162611. Referring to the original reference numerals of those
15 drawings in parentheses, each of these devices has a light guiding element (20) with first and
   second parallel faces (26), and a coupling prism (44, 54) for attachment to the light guiding
   element so as to provide a suitably angled input surface so that light can be introduced close to
   the normal to a surface (46, 58) of the prism and then enter the light guide at an angle desired for
   internal propagation of the light by internal reflection at surfaces (26).
20 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
            The present invention is a light guide device and corresponding production methods.
            According to the teachings of an embodiment of the present invention there is provided,
   an apparatus comprising: (a) a light guiding element having a plurality of faces including first
   and second parallel faces, the light guiding element being configured for guiding light by internal
25 reflection at the first and second parallel faces, one of the plurality of faces providing a coupling
   surface; (b) a transparent optical element having an interface surface for attachment to the
   coupling surface, the transparent optical element being configured such that light propagating
   within the transparent optical element passes through the interface surface and the coupling
   surface so as to propagate within the light guiding element; (c) a non-transparent coating applied
30 to at least part of at least one of the plurality of faces of the light guiding element, the coating
   defining an edge adjacent to, or overlapping, the coupling surface of the light guiding element;
                                                 I

   and (d) a quantity of transparent adhesive deployed between the coupling surface and the
   interface surface so as to form an optically transmissive interface, the adhesive extending to, and
   partially overlapping, the edge.
            According to a further feature of an embodiment of the present invention, the coupling
 5 surface is provided on one of the first and second parallel faces.
            According to a further feature of an embodiment of the present invention, the coating
   extends between the coupling surface and the interface surface.
            According to a further feature of an embodiment of the present invention, the coupling
   surface is inclined relative to the first and second parallel faces.
t0          According to a further feature of an embodiment of the present invention, the coupling
   surface and the first parallel face meet at a ground edge, and wherein the edge is non-overlapping
   with the ground edge.
            According to a further feature of an embodiment of the present invention, the adhesive
   fills a recess formed between the ground edge and the interface surface.
15          According to a further feature of an embodiment of the present invention, the coupling
   surface is obliquely inclined relative to the first and second parallel faces.
            According to a further feature of an embodiment of the present invention, the coupling
   surface is perpendicular to the first and second parallel faces.
            According to a further feature of an embodiment of the present invention, the interface
20 surface is larger than the coupling surface.
            According to a further feature of an embodiment of the present invention, the coating is a
   metal coating.
            According to a further feature of an embodiment of the present invention, the coating is a
   dielectric coating.
25          According to a further feature of an embodiment of the present invention, the transparent
   optical element is a coupling prism configured to provide an input surface oriented for input of
   light into the light guiding element.
            According to a further feature of an embodiment of the present invention, the edge
   defines an optical cutoff edge for light rays passing from the transparent optical element into the
30 light guiding element.
            There is also provided according to the teachings of an embodiment of the present
   invention, an apparatus comprising: (a) a light guiding element having a plurality of faces
   including first and second parallel faces, the light guiding element being configured for guiding
   light by internal reflection at the first and second parallel faces, one of the plurality of faces
                                                 2

   providing a coupling surface; (b) a coupling prism having an interface surface adhered to the
   coupling surface and an input surface for input of light into the light guiding element; and (c) a
   non-transparent coating applied to at least part of the coupling surface of the light guiding
   element and extending between the light guiding element and the coupling prism, the coating
 5 defining an optical cutoff edge for light passing from the coupling prism through the coupling
   surface into the light guiding element.
           According to a further feature of an embodiment of the present invention, the coupling
   prism is adhered to the coupling surface of the light guiding element without adhesive.
           There is also provided according to the teachings of an embodiment of the present
10 invention, an apparatus comprising: (a) a light guiding element having a plurality of faces
   including first and second parallel faces, the light guiding element being configured for guiding
   light by internal reflection at the first and second parallel faces, one of the plurality of faces
   providing a coupling surface; (b) a coupling prism having an interface surface for attachment to
   the coupling surface and an input surface for input of light into the light guiding element; and
15 (c) a quantity of transparent adhesive deployed between the coupling surface and the interface
   surface so as to form an optically transmissive interface, a part of the quantity of adhesive
   forming a partial filling of an angled recess between the light guiding element and the coupling
   prism, wherein an air gap extends along one of the faces of the light guiding element beneath the
   partial filling, the air gap terminating at an edge within the adhesive so as to define an optical
20 cutoff edge adjacent to the coupling surface of the light guiding element.
           There is also provided according to the teachings of an embodiment of the present
   invention, a method for producing an optical assembly, the method comprising: (a) providing a
   light guiding element having a plurality of faces including first and second parallel faces, the
   light guiding element being configured for guiding light by internal reflection at the first and
25 second parallel faces; (b) applying a coating to at least part of at least one of the plurality of faces
   of the light guiding element; (c) grinding the light guiding element along a plane intersecting the
   coating so as to simultaneously form a coupling surface of the light guiding element and an edge
   of the coating; and (d) bonding to the coupling surface an interface surface of a transparent
   optical element, the transparent optical element being configured such that light propagating
30 within the transparent optical element passes through the interface surface and the coupling
   surface so as to propagate within the light guiding element, wherein the bonding is performed by
   applying a quantity of a transparent adhesive between the coupling surface and the interface
   surface, the quantity of adhesive being applied such that, when the coupling surface and the
                                                3

   interface surface are pressed together, an excess of the transparent adhesive overlaps the edge of
   the coating.
           According to a further feature of an embodiment of the present invention, the coating is a
   non-transparent coating such that the edge defines an optical cutoff edge.
 5         According to a further feature of an embodiment of the present invention, there is also
   provided a step of selectively removing the coating so as to leave a cutoff edge defined by an
   edge of an air-gap formed in the transparent adhesive.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           The invention is herein described, by way of example only, with reference to the
10 accompanying drawings, wherein:
           FIGS. 1A and 1B, described above, correspond to FIGS. 3 and 7, respectively, of PCT
   Publication No. WO 2015/162611, illustrating light guide devices to which the present invention
   may advantageously be applied;
           FIG. IC is a schematic isometric view of a light guide device according to an aspect of
15 the present invention in which context the present invention may also be advantageously applied;
           FIGS. 2A, 2B and 2C are schematic enlarged cross-sectional partial views of a region of
   joining of two transparent optical elements illustrating, respectively, the junction without
   adhesive, with adhesive, and with a protective layer overlapped by adhesive according to an
   embodiment of the present invention, each view illustrating various light ray paths for each case;
20         FIGS. 3A-3C are a sequence of schematic isometric views illustrating stages during the
   production of a light guide device according to an embodiment of the present invention, the
   views illustrating a light guiding element after application of a coating, after grinding of a
   coupling surface, and after bonding of a coupling-in prism, respectively;
           FIG. 3D is a schematic isometric view of a light guiding element after application of a
25 coating with a pre-formed edge according to an alternative production sequence of certain
   embodiments of the present invention;
           FIGS. 4A and 4B are schematic side views illustrating stages during the production of a
   further embodiment of the present invention illustrating a light guiding element after application
   of a coating, and after bonding of a coupling-in prism, respectively;
30         FIG. 4C is a view similar to FIG. 4B illustrating the overall optical effect of a device
   resulting from the production process of FIGS. 4A and 4B;
           FIGS. 5A-5C are schematic side views illustrating stages during the production of a
   variant implementation of the device of FIG. 4C;
                                               4

           FIGS. 6A-6C are a sequence of schematic isometric views illustrating stages during the
   production of a light guide device according to a further embodiment of the present invention,
   the views illustrating a light guiding element after application of a coating, after grinding of a
   coupling surface, and after bonding of a coupling-in prism, respectively;
 5         FIG. 6D is a view similar to FIG. 6C illustrating the overall optical effect of a device
   resulting from the production process of FIGS. 6A-6C;
           FIG. 7A is a view similar to FIG. 2C illustrating a further variation of the present
   invention according to which a coating layer is removed to leave an air gap;
           FIG. 7B is a view similar to FIG. 6D illustrating an implementation of that device using
10 an air gap according to FIG. 7A;
           FIG. 8A is an isometric view of a light guide device that is a further variant of the devices
   of FIGS. IC and 3C, constructed and operative according to the teachings of an embodiment of
   the present invention;
           FIG. 8B is a schematic horizontal cross-sectional view taken through the device of FIG.
15 8A adjacent to the base of the light guiding element, illustrating propagation of an input image
   aperture along the light guiding element; and
           FIG. 9 is a schematic end view of a light guide device formed from superposition of two
   light guiding elements, implemented according to the teachings of an aspect of the present
   invention.
20 DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
           The present invention is a light guide device and corresponding production methods.
           The principles and operation of light guide devices according to the present invention
   may be better understood with reference to the drawings and the accompanying description.
           By way of introduction, the present invention relates to a wide range of situations in
25 which two transparent elements are joined, and especially, although not exclusively, where
   external surfaces of the two elements meet at an angle or step. Joints between transparent
   elements of an optical system present a number of challenges for practical implementation.
   Firstly, edges of blocks of transparent material are not perfectly sharp edges, and are modified
   (distorted) by some radius of curvature, often with some chipping or other defects. The extent of
30 this rounding typically varies depending on the properties of the materials and the type of
   equipment used. FIG. 2A illustrates a schematic partial cross-sectional enlarged view of a region
   of joining of two transparent optical elements 13 and 19, where an edge 32 of one of the
   elements 13 after grinding exhibits a radius of curvature. This radius of curvature results in
                                               5

   various scattering effects which reduce the overall quality of the optical device. Thus, while rays
   Ri1   and R13 pass from optical element 19 to optical element 13 without scattering and
   propagate as intended along optical element 13, and ray R15 is excluded from optical element
   13, rays R12 and R14 interact with various intermediate angles of the surface due to the rounding
 5 of edge 32, resulting in scattering of rays at angles other than those corresponding to the device
   design, with a consequent reduction in signal-to-noise for the overall device.
           A further problem arises through the use of optical adhesives, as illustrated here in FIG.
   2B. In order to ensure uniform optical properties at the interface, a sufficient quantity of optical
   adhesive is interposed between the facing surfaces that, after pressing them together, the entire
10 area of the facing surfaces to be joined is covered with adhesive. This typically leads to some
   outflow of excess adhesive at the extremities of the surfaces to be joined, forming an overspill
   region 31 which may be of arbitrary size and uncontrolled shape. Since the adhesive is
   transparent adhesive, and typically also index-matched to the transparent optical elements,
   overspill region 31 defines additional paths of optical rays which may result in scattering and
15 unwanted angles of ray propagation within optical element 13. Thus, in the example illustrated
   here, rays R23 and R24 pass from optical element 19 to optical element 13 without scattering
   and propagate as intended along optical element 13, and ray R22 escapes without reaching
   optical element 13. However rays R21 and R25 interact with various arbitrarily-angled surfaces
   of overspill region 31 of the adhesive, resulting in scattering of rays at angles other than those
20 corresponding to the device design, with a consequent reduction in signal-to-noise for the overall
   device.
            According to one aspect of the present invention, as illustrated in FIG. 2C, there is
   provided an optical device or apparatus which includes two transparent optical elements,
   typically a light guiding element 13 with a plurality of faces including first and second parallel
25 faces 26 so that light can be guided within element 13 by internal reflection at first and second
   parallel faces 26. The second transparent optical element 19 has an interface surface for
   attachment to a coupling surface of light guiding element 13. A non-transparent (opaque) coating
   15 is applied to at least part of at least one of the faces of light guiding element 13, in this case,
   one of the parallel faces 26. Coating 15 is preferably chosen to provide (or maintain) reflective
30 properties for internal reflection at the surface of the light guiding element, and preferably
   defines an edge 17 adjacent to, or in some cases described below overlapping, the coupling
   surface of light guiding element 13. A quantity of transparent adhesive is deployed between the
   coupling surface and the interface surface so as to form an optically transmissive interface, the
   adhesive forming an overspill region 31 which extends to, and partially overlaps, the edge 17.
                                                 6

           As seen in FIG. 2C, the presence of coating 15 according to this exemplary
   implementation significantly enhances the optical properties of the device. Firstly, due to the
   presence of coating 15 on the surface of light guiding element 13, the adhesive of overspill
   region 31 does not compromise the internal reflection properties of the light guiding element 13,
 5 such that ray R31 is internally reflected within the light guiding element and propagates correctly
   within the light guiding element. Additionally, edge 17 here serves as an optical cutoff edge,
   cleanly delineating between rays R31, R33 and R34 which enter the light guiding element
   undistorted, and rays R32 and R35 which are excluded therefrom. Any stray light that is
   reflected by irregular surfaces of the adhesive overspill region 31, such as ray R35, hits the outer
10 surface of coating 15 and is excluded from the light guiding element.
           Coating 15 may be formed from any material suitable for application to a surface of an
   optical element and which provides the required light-blocking properties and provides internally
   reflective properties of the transparent optical elements. Examples include, but are not limited to,
   various metal coatings and various dielectric coatings. In one particularly preferred but non
15 limiting example, a coating of silver protected by a thin sealing layer to prevent oxidation has
   been found to be particularly effective and suitable for this application.
           The present invention is applicable to a wide range of applications in which two
   transparent optical elements are joined together. A subset of applications of particular
   importance relates to devices in which light is introduced into a light guiding element 13, either
20 from another light guiding element or from a coupling-in configuration 19. Such applications can
   employ a number of different geometries of attachment, which employ attachment of optical
   element 19 to various different surfaces of the light guiding element 13, as illustrated in FIGS.
   1A-IC. In FIG. 1A, a coupling-in prism is attached to one of the major parallel surfaces of the
   light guiding element, while in FIG. 1B, attachment of a prism occurs at an obliquely angled
25 coupling-in surface. Attachment may also occur at an end surface perpendicular to the major
   surfaces of a light guiding element, such as is illustrated in the novel configuration of FIG. IC,
   which relates to a rectangular light guiding element with two pairs of parallel surfaces. Further
   examples of an implementation of the present invention for each of these geometries may be
   found below.
30         The sequence of operations to produce optical devices according to the present invention
   may vary considerably according to the particular design employed. FIGS. 3A-3C illustrate a
   sequence of stages of production, corresponding to a method of one particularly preferred, but
   non-limiting, aspect of the present invention. In this case, production of an optical assembly
   includes a step of applying a coating 15 to at least part of at least one face of a light guiding
                                                7

   element 13, which may be a slab-type guiding element with two major parallel faces, or may be a
   rectangular (including square) light guiding element with two pairs of parallel faces for guiding
   light through four-fold internal reflection, as shown in FIG. 3A. According to the particularly
   preferred sequence shown here, light guiding element 13 is then ground along a plane
 5 intersecting the coating so as to form simultaneously an end coupling surface 14 and an edge 17
   of coating 15, as shown in FIG. 3B. An interface surface of a transparent optical element, such as
   a coupling-in prism 19, is then bonded to coupling surface 14, so that light propagating within
   the transparent optical element can pass through the interface surface and the coupling surface so
   as to propagate within the light guiding element. Bonding of prism 19 to light guiding element
10 13 is performed by applying a quantity of a transparent adhesive between the coupling surface
   and the interface surface. The adhesive is applied such that, when the coupling surface and the
   interface surface are pressed together, an excess of the transparent adhesive overlaps edge 17 of
   coating 15, thereby generating a final configuration which is analogous to that described above
   with reference to FIG. 2C, where the coating prevents the adhesive from adversely affecting the
15 light guiding element properties, and where edge 17 provides a well-defined optical cutoff edge
   delineating what beams do and do not enter the light guiding element. This approach may be
   used to advantage for coupling surfaces at any desired angle, including orthogonal coupling
   surfaces such as that of FIG. IC and oblique coupling surfaces such as that of FIGS. 3B and 3C.
           The simultaneous forming of coupling surface 14 and edge 17 in a grinding/polishing
20 process is considered advantageous in that it ensures correct positioning of edge 17 relative to
   coupling surface 14, typically just beyond any non-planar edge effects occurring at the extremity
   of the coupling surface, such as shown in FIG. 2C, and avoids the need for formation of a sharp
   edge during the coating process. As a result of this process, coupling surface 14 and one of the
   parallel faces of the light guiding element meet at a ground edge, and edge 17 of the coating is in
25 non-overlapping relation with the ground edge. A "ground edge" in this context refers to the
   entire region over which an angular transition occurs which deviates from flat surface.
           Alternatively, as illustrated in FIG. 3D, a region of coating 15 may be applied to a light
   guiding element 13 in such a manner as to define an edge 17 during the application of the
   coating. Techniques for applying the coatings of the present invention in general, and in
30 particular, for selective application of a layer so as to form a well-defined edge, are known in the
   art, and can be chosen according to the type of coating used, and the corresponding application
   technique employed. For example, a protected silver coating or a dielectric coating can be
   applied by conventional deposition techniques, such as sputter coating or wet chemical
   deposition, and the shape of the coating can be defined by various conventional techniques
                                                 8

   including, but not limited to, lithographic techniques defining a pattern of photoresist, and
   mechanical masking such as by application of adhesive tape. Application of the coating with a
   well-defined edge defined during the application process is particularly useful in applications in
   which another transparent optical element is to be bonded to the light guiding element on one of
 5 the major parallel surfaces, such as in the configuration of FIG. 1A. An example of such an
   application will be described below with reference to FIGS. 4A-4C.
           The coatings of the present invention may be applied on one or more surface of one or
   both of the optical elements to be bonded, and may be applied to either the entirety of the
   surface(s) or, more preferably, to only a part of the surface(s) which is sufficiently close to the
10 bonding region      to be needed       for its  adhesive-protection   properties.   Thus,  in many
   implementations, the total area of the coating in the final assembled device is less than half the
   total surface area of the corresponding surface, and in certain cases, is less than the total area of
   the bonded surfaces.
           In certain applications, coating on only one side, or a subset of the faces, may be
15 sufficient. For example, where two components are to be coupled so that certain surfaces will be
   flush after coupling, it may be possible to remove excess adhesive effectively after bonding by
   performing a further polishing step which is effective to resurface the two components in a
   common plane.
           Turning now to FIGS. 4A-4C, these illustrate an implementation of the present invention
20 in which the coupling surface is provided on one of the major parallel faces defining the light
   guide. In this case, coating 15 is advantageously applied so as to define edge 17, most preferably
   in a location which is to be overlapped by the transparent optical element 19 after attachment
   (FIG. 4B). After attachment of the transparent optical element 19, the coating is seen to extend
   between the coupling surface and the interface surface. As a result, any overspill region 31 of
25 adhesive, as well as the ground edge of coupling prism 19, fall outside the optical cutoff edge 17
   such that the adhesive overspill and any imperfections of the coupling prism edge do not
   adversely affect the optical properties of the device.
           FIG. 4C schematically depicts the overall          optical properties     of the assembled
   components. As in a number of other particularly preferred implementations illustrated here,
30 transparent optical element 19 is a coupling prism configured to provide an input surface 18
   oriented for input of light into light guiding element 13. Specifically, for a light guiding element
   which is implemented as part of a system in which light propagates within the element within a
   given range of angles, input surface 18 may advantageously be oriented roughly perpendicular to
   the input ray directions, thereby minimizing distortions. Additionally, employing edge 17 as an
                                                9

   optical cutoff, this configurations can be utilized for "filling" the light guiding element with rays
   of an image, where a slightly oversized image aperture is "trimmed" by an optical cutoff edge to
   ensure that the image (and its reflected conjugates) are present at all locations within the light
   guiding element. For this purpose, edge 17 does not necessarily have to be a straight edge, but
 5 should be a cleanly defined edge of whatever shape is desired. Various arrangements for filling
   of a light guiding element with an image are described in PCT Patent Publication No. WO
   2015/162611 for light guiding elements with one pair of parallel faces, and in co-pending PCT
   Patent Application No. PCT/IL2017/051028 (which was unpublished on the filing date of this
   application) for light guiding elements with two pairs of parallel faces. In each of those
10 configurations, the optical cutoff edge serving to trim the in-coupled images can advantageously
   be implemented according to the teachings of the present invention. It will be noted that the
   trimming edge thickness is defined by the thickness of the coating layer, which is thin, and will
   generate minimal scattering.
            FIGS. 5A-5C illustrate a modified production sequence and final form of an optical
15 assembly functionally similar to that of FIGS. 4A-4C, but in which the optical geometry is
   enhanced. In this case, light guiding element 13 is coated with coating 15, as in FIG. 4A. In the
   next step (FIG. 5B), a rectangular prism 19 is glued on one of the primary parallel faces of light
   guide element 13, partly covering the coating 15. The use of a rectangular prism during assembly
   facilitates effective pressing together of the prism to the light guiding element, thereby achieve
20 better bonding. The bonded prism and light guiding element are then polished along the dashed
   line to generate an enhanced device geometry, as depicted in FIG. 5C.
            Parenthetically, although described primarily in relation to devices in which optical
   elements are bonded by use of optical adhesive, it should be noted that certain examples of the
   present invention can be implemented without adhesive, where alternative bonding techniques
25 are used. The structures of FIGS. 4A-4C and 5A-5C are examples of structures suitable for such
   an implementation, where the coupling surface of light guiding element 13 and the interface
   surface of transparent optical element 19 are carefully prepared to a high degree of planarity and
   then joined by glueless contact bonding ("direct bonding") by bringing the surfaces into direct
   contact. In such cases, there is no problem of adhesive overspill. However, the technique of
30 providing a coating with an optical cutoff edge extending between the components ensures a
   high quality optical cutoff, independent of any imperfections in the edge of the coupling prism.
            Turning now to FIGS. 6A-6D, these illustrate an exemplary non-limiting process for
   implementing the present invention in the context of a geometry similar to that of FIG 1B. In this
   example, light guiding element 13 is first coated with coating 15 as shown in 6A. The end of the
                                               10

   light guiding element is then polished to form the coupling surface, and simultaneously shortens
   the coated region so as to generate trimming edge 17, as shown in FIG. 6B. In FIG. 6C, prism 19
   is bonded to the coupling surface of the light guiding element 13, with any adhesive overspill 31
   overlying edge 17 and part of coating 15. In this case, optionally, the interface surface of prism
 5 19 may advantageously be larger than the coupling surface of the light guiding element. FIG. 6D
   depicts schematically the overall optical structure of the combined assembly, in which edge 17
   provides an optical cutoff, and the optical properties are insensitive to imperfections of the
   angled edges of the elements.
            Turning now to FIGS. 7A and 7B, there is shown a further variant implementation of the
10 present invention. In this case, instead of employing an opaque coating to define a cutoff edge, a
   removable coating 15 is used to protect the light guiding element surfaces during application of
   adhesive, and to define cutoff edge 17. After the bonding is complete and the adhesive has
   solidified, the coating is selectively removed so as to leave a cutoff edge defined by an edge of
   an air-gap 34 formed in the transparent adhesive.
15          In this case, the coating/layer does not need to have any particular optical requirements,
   and is only present during application of adhesive to attach the coupling-in prism 19. The air-gap
   34 is generated after the material of the layer (such as photoresist or wax) has been removed. The
   optical properties of this configuration including the behavior of the various rays is analogous to
   the rays illustrated in FIG. 2C, except that reflectance of ray R21 is now by total internal
20 reflection (TIR) of the light guiding element (instead of layer reflectivity) and the reflectance of
   R25 is by TIR within the adhesive (instead of from an outer surface of the coating). Trimming
   edge 17 is now determined by the edge of the air-gap, after which the optical path is continuous.
   The overall optical properties of the device are depicted schematically in FIG. 7B.
            The present invention may be implemented in the contexts of optical elements that are
25 bonded at surfaces of any orientation, including at coupling surfaces that are perpendicular to an
   extensional direction of a light guiding element, such as was illustrated above in FIG. IC. As
   mentioned, the invention is also applicable to light guiding elements with two pairs of parallel
   surface within which rays propagate by four-fold reflection, referred to as a "2D waveguide."
            In certain cases, protective layer coatings may be used to advantage on selected surfaces
30 of two elements being bonded. Thus, in FIGS. 8A and 8B, it may be preferably to apply a
   protective coating on both sides of light guiding element 13 in order to reduce non uniformity
   that can be caused by a discontinuity between prism 19 and light guiding element 13 (region 37
   in FIG. 8A). The coating is shown on both sides of light guiding element 13 as 80fl and 80f2.
   By introducing a protective coating layer all around the end of light guiding element 13
                                                11

   (including 80fl, 80f2 and the other two orthogonal sides) the guidance of the waveguide will be
   protected from glue spillover or edge non-uniformities from all sides. If the step between prism
   19 and light guiding element 13 near 80f2 is small (or doesn't exist) then it is beneficial to also
   protect the reflectance of the prism 19 from any glue spillover by protecting coating 8013 as well.
 5         Turning finally to FIG. 9, although illustrated herein primarily in the context of a
   coupling-in prism attached to a light guiding element, the present invention can equally be
   applied to other applications such as, for example, where a first light guiding element (or
   "waveguide") feeds into another. FIG. 9 illustrates one such example in which a rectangular (2D)
   light guiding element 10 feeds into a slab-type (ID) light guiding element 20. This configuration
10 corresponds to one of a number of such options described in the aforementioned co-pending PCT
   Patent Application No. PCT/IL2017/051028 (which was unpublished on the filing date of this
   application), and the invention can equally be applied to the various variant implementations,
   with or without a coupling prism, described therein.
           Waveguide 10 is slightly larger than waveguide 20 in order to enable complete
15 illumination (filling) of waveguide 20. The glue 2110 can spillover either or both of waveguides
   20 and 10. Particularly preferred implementations of the present invention thus provide
   protective coating layers on both waveguides, as illustrated at 40fl, 40f2, 4013 and 40f4.
           To the extent that the appended claims have been drafted without multiple dependencies,
   this has been done only to accommodate formal requirements in jurisdictions which do not allow
20 such multiple dependencies. It should be noted that all possible combinations of features which
   would be implied by rendering the claims multiply dependent are explicitly envisaged and
   should be considered part of the invention.
           It will be appreciated that the above descriptions are intended only to serve as examples,
   and that many other embodiments are possible within the scope of the present invention as
25 defined in the appended claims.
                                               12

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
         1. An apparatus comprising:
        (a)     a light guiding element having a plurality of faces including first and second
                parallel faces, said light guiding element being configured for guiding light by
                internal reflection at said first and second parallel faces, one of said plurality of
                faces providing a coupling surface;
        (b)     a transparent optical element having an interface surface for attachment to said
                coupling surface, said transparent optical element being configured such that light
                propagating within said transparent optical element passes through said interface
                surface and said coupling surface so as to propagate within the light guiding
                element;
        (c)     a non-transparent coating applied to at least part of at least one of said plurality of
                faces of said light guiding element, said coating defining an edge adjacent to, or
                overlapping, said coupling surface of said light guiding element; and
        (d)     a quantity of transparent adhesive deployed between said coupling surface and
                said interface surface so as to form an optically transmissive interface, said
                adhesive extending to, and overlapping, said edge.
        2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said coupling surface is provided on one of said
first and second parallel faces.
        3.  The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said coating extends between said coupling surface
and said interface surface.
        4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said coupling surface is inclined relative to said
first and second parallel faces.
        5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said coupling surface and said first parallel face
meet at a ground edge, and wherein said edge is non-overlapping with said ground edge.
        6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein said adhesive fills a recess formed between said
ground edge and said interface surface.
                                             13

         7. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said coupling surface is obliquely inclined relative
to said first and second parallel faces.
         8. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said coupling surface is perpendicular to said first
and second parallel faces.
         9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said interface surface is larger than said coupling
surface.
         10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said coating is a metal coating.
         11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said coating is a dielectric coating.
         12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said transparent optical element is a coupling
prism configured to provide an input surface oriented for input of light into said light guiding
element.
         13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said edge defines an optical cutoff edge for light
rays passing from said transparent optical element into said light guiding element.
         14. An apparatus comprising:
         (a)     a light guiding element having a plurality of faces including first and second
                 parallel faces, said light guiding element being configured for guiding light by
                 internal reflection at said first and second parallel faces, one of said plurality of
                 faces providing a coupling surface;
         (b)     a coupling prism having an interface surface adhered to said coupling surface and
                 an input surface for input of light into the light guiding element; and
         (c)     a non-transparent coating applied to at least part of said coupling surface of said
                 light guiding element and extending between said light guiding element and said
                 coupling prism, said coating defining an optical cutoff edge for light passing from
                 said coupling prism through said coupling surface into said light guiding element.
         15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein said coupling prism is adhered to said coupling
surface of said light guiding element without adhesive.
                                              14

         16. An apparatus comprising:
        (a)      a light guiding element having a plurality of faces including first and second
                 parallel faces, said light guiding element being configured for guiding light by
                 internal reflection at said first and second parallel faces, one of said plurality of
                 faces providing a coupling surface;
        (b)      a coupling prism having an interface surface for attachment to said coupling
                 surface and an input surface for input of light into the light guiding element; and
        (c)      a quantity of transparent adhesive deployed between said coupling surface and
                 said interface surface so as to form an optically transmissive interface, a part of
                 said quantity of adhesive forming a partial filling of an angled recess between said
                 light guiding element and said coupling prism,
wherein an air gap extends along one of said faces of said light guiding element beneath said
partial filling, said air gap terminating at an edge within said adhesive so as to define an optical
cutoff edge adjacent to said coupling surface of said light guiding element.
         17. A method for producing an optical assembly, the method comprising:
        (a)      providing a light guiding element having a plurality of faces including first and
                 second parallel faces, said light guiding element being configured for guiding
                 light by internal reflection at said first and second parallel faces;
        (b)      applying a coating to at least part of at least one of said plurality of faces of said
                 light guiding element;
        (c)      grinding said light guiding element along a plane intersecting said coating so as to
                 simultaneously form a coupling surface of said light guiding element and an edge
                 of said coating; and
        (d)      bonding to said coupling surface an interface surface of a transparent optical
                 element, the transparent optical element being configured such that light
                 propagating within the transparent optical element passes through the interface
                 surface and the coupling surface so as to propagate within the light guiding
                 element,
wherein said bonding is performed by applying a quantity of a transparent adhesive between said
coupling surface and said interface surface, said quantity of adhesive being applied such that,
when said coupling surface and said interface surface are pressed together, an excess of said
transparent adhesive overlaps said edge of said coating.
                                              15

        18. The method of claim 17, wherein said coating is a non-transparent coating such that
said edge defines an optical cutoff edge.
        19. The method of claim 17, further comprising a step of selectively removing said
coating so as to leave a cutoff edge defined by an edge of an air-gap formed in said transparent
adhesive.
                                          16










