                                ABSTRACT
    The present invention discloses a material baffle mechanism and a
woodworking band sawing machine using thereof. The material baffle
mechanism     comprises:  a slipway assembly and         a sliding base
assembly connected with a material baffle, wherein the sliding base
assembly is capable of sliding relative to the slipway assembly,
wherein the slipway assembly includes a slipway matching part and
the sliding base assembly includes a slide matching part, one or more
wear-resistant elements are provided between the slipway matching
part and the slide matching part, thereby a sliding friction between
the slipway matching part and the sliding matching part is reduced. At
least   one  advantage   thereof    lies  in  that,  by   providing  the
wear-resistant elements, a metallic contact between the slipway
assembly    and the sliding    base assembly could        be  prevented,
meanwhile,     by   replacing    the     wear-resistant elements,    the
smoothness between the slipway assembly and the sliding base
assembly could be recovered.

  DRAW NGS
3
           5
    FIG. 1
    FIG. 2

       A MATERIAL BAFFLE MECHANI SM AND A
      WOODWORKING BAND SAWING MACHINE
                          USING THEREOF
Technical Field
    The present invention       belongs to the technical field of the
woodworking machines, in particularly relates to a material baffle
mechanism and a woodworking band sawing machine using thereof.
Background Art
    Material baffle mechanism is a commonly used in woodworking
machinery. Generally, the material baffle mechanism          is used for
implementing a continuous straight cutting of the wood. Some
advantages of this material baffle includes: preventing the deviation
in the cutting    process;   positioning the length of cutting wood
accurately to make sure the batch timbers having a same size;
adjusting the cutting distance quickly for meeting the needs of the
timber having the different lengths. Generally, the material baffle
mechanism includes: a guiding rail, a base, a material baffle and a
handle. During the adjusting process, the handle is lifted, thus the
setting base could be driven, so as to adjust the position of the baffle
along the rails. During the locking process, the handle is depressed,
thus the setting base and the baffle are set in the locking position.
    Nowadays, the material baffle mechanism could be clarified into a
lot of sorts. Wherein, the rail structure includes rod type and rail type.
The locking manner includes handle locking and eccentric locking. The
material baffle includes L-shaped material baffle, rectangle baffle and
other types. During the sliding process and the locking process of the
                                      1

material baffle mechanism, the friction between the metal materials
might causes varying degrees of abrasions. In this case, the position
accuracy and the appearance might be affected. Meanwhile, some
phenomena such as guiding scratch and unsmooth sliding may be
caused.
Summary of the Invention
     The present invention provides a material baffle mechanism and a
woodworking band sawing machine using thereof. By using one or
more wear-resistant elements, a metallic contact between the sliding
assembly and the fixing assembly could be prevented and a sliding
damage could be reduced.
     According to the present invention, a material baffle mechanism is
provided,   this material   baffle mechanism     comprises   a slipway
assembly and a sliding base assembly connected with a baffle,
wherein the sliding base assembly is capable of sliding relative to the
slipway assembly, wherein the slipway assembly includes a slipway
matching part and the sliding base assembly includes a slide
matching part, one or more wear-resistant elements are provided
between the slipway matching part and the slide matching part to
reduce sliding friction between the slipway matching part and the
sliding matching part.
     Furthermore, the slipway matching part is provided with ribs, and
the slide matching part is provided with recesses corresponding to
said ribs, where the recesses are capable of being engaged with the
ribs, so that the sliding base assembly could slide along the slipway
assem bly.
     Furthermore, the wear-resistant element could be wear-resistant
                                    2

medium provided on the recess.
     Furthermore, the wear-resistant elements could be one or more
wear-resistant    pads   provided     in   the   recesses,   and   the
wear-resistant pads contact with the ribs when the sliding base
assembly slides along the slipway assembly.
     Furthermore, the one or more recesses include a first recess
portion and a second recess portion, the wear-resistant pads include
one or more first wear-resistant pads disposed in the first recess
portion and one or more second wear-resistant pads disposed in the
second recess portion, wherein the first recess portion and the second
recess portion are provided with a first dovetail groove and a second
dovetail groove, which are used for disposing the corresponding one
or more first wear-resistant pads and the corresponding         one or
more second wear-resistant pads.
     Furthermore, the wear-resistant elements further include one or
more third wear-resistant pads disposed on one side wall of the
sliding base assembly, and wherein a third dovetail groove is provided
on the side wall of the sliding base assembly and is configured to
locate the one or more third wear-resistant pads.
     Furthermore, the wear-resistant element further comprises a first
pad end surface embedded into the sliding base assembly and a
second pad end surface being capable of cooperating in the sliding
movement, wherein the surface area of the first pad end surface is
greater than or equal to the surface area of the second pad end
surface.
     Furthermore, the wear-resistant elements further include one or
more wear-resistant bolts installed on the other side wall of the
sliding base assembly, a wear-resistant end of the wear-resistant bolt
                                  3

faces towards the plurality of ribs, so as to separate the other side
wall of the sliding base assembly from said slipway assembly during
the sliding movement of the sliding base assembly.
     Furthermore, the material baffle mechanism further comprises an
eccentric locking assembly which is capable of locking the sliding base
assembly and the slipway assembly, wherein the eccentric locking
assembly is provided with a wear-resistant surface capable of locking
the slipway assembly.
     The present invention further provides a woodworking band
sawing machine comprising the above-mentioned material baffle
mechanism.
     Comparing with the prior art, the present invention has the
following beneficial effects
     (1)One or more wear-resistant elements are provided between
the slipway matching part of the slipway assembly and the slide
matching part of the sliding base assembly. Thereby, all of the
metallic contact between the first abrasive surface and the first recess
portion, the metallic contact between the second abrasive surface and
the second recess portion, and the metallic contact between the third
abrasive surface and the second sliding side plate could be prevented.
Therefore,   once a severe wear is occurred during a long time
operation, the smoothness between the slipway assembly and the
sliding base assembly could be recovered merely by replacing the
wear-resistant elements.
     (2) The wear-resistant bolts provided in the first sliding side plate
face to the first rib, so as to prevent a direct metallic contact between
the sliding base assembly and the slipway assembly.
     (3) The scale is provided on the slipway assembly, which is used
                                      4

for realizing a precise positioning regarding the sliding position of the
sliding base assembly.
     (4) The eccentric locking assembly has an eccentric structure for
implementing       a  locking    process and/or   a  releasing    process.
Meanwhile, the eccentric handle has a wear-resistant surface being
capable of locking with the slipway assembly, which is used for
providing a good wear resistance and elasticity.
     (5) The material     baffle mechanism   according to the present
invention includes a sliding assembly and a fixing assembly, which
can realize a quick detachment. Thereby, during the operation of the
woodworking band sawing machine, the material baffle mechanism is
capable of being amounted on the operating platform. However, when
the band sawing machine is in an idle state, the sliding assembly is
capable of being hung on the body of the band sawing machine, so as
to save the space on the operating platform           and to make the
removing easier.
    Brief Description of the Drawings
     Figs.1-4 are structural schematic diagrams of the material baffle
mechanism according to the present invention;
     Figs.5-6   are   structural   schematic diagrams    of the    slipway
assembly according to the present invention;
     Fig.7 is a structural schematic diagram of the sliding assemblies
according to the present invention;
     Figs.8-9 are structural schematic diagrams of the sliding base
assembly according to the present invention;
     Fig.10 is a structural schematic diagram of the sliding lid according
                                       5

to the present invention;
     Fig.11 is an assembly drawing of the sliding base assembly, the
eccentric locking assembly and the slipway assembly according to the
present invention;
     Fig.12 is an assembly drawing of the eccentric locking assembly
and the sliding base assembly according to the present invention;
     Fig.13 is a structural schematic diagram of the eccentric locking
assembly according to the present invention;
     Fig.14 is an exploded view of the material baffle mechanism
according to the present invention;
     Fig.15 is a structural schematic diagram of the wear-resistant pad
according to the present invention; and
     Figs.16-17 are structural schematic diagrams of the band sawing
machine according to the present invention.
     Wherein,
     1. slipway assembly; 2. sliding base assembly; 3. eccentric locking
assembly; 4. spacer assembly; 5. material baffle; 6. arbor; 7. shim; 8.
operating platform; 9. body;
     11. first rib; 12. second rib; 13. third rib; 14. edge portion; 15.
installing groove; 16. scale; 17. rib groove;
     111.   locking surface; 112. first abrasive surface; 121.    second
abrasive surface; 122. third abrasive surface; 151. slot hole;
     21. sliding cover board; 22. first sliding side plate; 23. second
sliding    side    plate; 24.  first  wear-resistant  pad;  25.   second
wear-resistant pad; 26. third wear-resistant pad;
     211.    first recess portion;   212. second   recess portion;  213.
                                      6

strip-shaped anti-skidding structure; 214. first dovetail groove; 215.
second dovetail groove;
     221. axial hole; 222. screw hole; 223. wear-resistant bolt;
     231. third wear-resistant pad;
     241. first pad end surface; 242. second pad end surface;
     31. matching end;
     41. spacer body; 42. spacer plug; 43. locking bracket;
     411. fixing bolt; 412.; 413. flat washer;
     51. combined nut.
Detailed Description of the Embodiments
      For clarifying the objects, the techniques and the advantages of
the present      invention, hereinafter, embodiments of the present
invention will be clearly and completely described in detail with
reference to the accompanying drawings.
      Referring to Figs.1-4, the present invention provides a material
baffle mechanism which is capable of implementing a continuous
straight-line cutting for the wood and positioning the cutting length
accurately. Meanwhile, this material baffle mechanism also is capable
of reducing the sliding friction between a slipway matching part and a
sliding     base   matching   part.  This   material  baffle  mechanism
com praises:
      a slipway assem bly 1, which is fixed to the woodworking band saw
machine;
      a sliding base assembly 2, which is connected to the slipway
assembly 1 and is capable of sliding relative to the slipway assembly
1;
      an eccentric locking assembly 3, which is articulated to the sliding
                                      7

base assembly 2 and is capable of sliding together with the sliding
base assembly 2, when the eccentric locking assembly 3 is driven, the
eccentric locking assembly 3 could lock the sliding base assembly 2
and the slide assembly 1 unlock the sliding base assembly 2 and the
slide assembly 1;
     a spacer assembly 4, which is fixed to the sliding base assembly 2
and is capable of sliding together with the sliding base assembly 2;
     a material baffle 5, which is connected to the spacer assembly 4.
     In the material     baffle mechanism    according to the present
invention,   the slipway assembly       1 is the only fixed assembly.
Referring to Figs.5-6, the slipway assembly 1 comprises a slipway
fixed to an operating platform       of the woodworking band sawing
machine. The slipway is formed of metal having an integrated
structure. The slipway and a fixed surface of the operating platform
are arranged in the     horizontal plane. The slipway matching part is a
matching potion which is capable of matching the slipway assembly 1
to the sliding base assembly 2. This slipway matching part is provided
with a plurality of ribs, which comprise a first rib 11 and a second rib
12. The first rib 11      includes a locking surface 111     and a first
abrasive surface 112. The first abrasive surface 112 is implemented
as a horizontal surface and is capable of cooperating with the sliding
base assembly 2 to realize a sliding process. The locking surface 111
is provided on one side of the first abrasive surface 112 and contacts
with an upper end of the eccentric locking assembly 3. Meanwhile, as
the eccentric locking assembly 3 is driven, the locking surface 111
could come in close contact with the upper end of the eccentric locking
assembly 3, thereby, the sliding base assembly 2 and the slipway
assembly 1 could lock tightly. The height of the first rib 11 is identical
to the height of the second rib 12. Moreover, the sliding base assembly
2 merely contacts with the first rib 11 and the second rib 12 of the
                                     8

slideway. The second rib 12 includes a second abrasive surface 121
and a third abrasive surface 122, wherein the second abrasive surface
121 is a horizontal plane, and the third abrasive surface 122 is a
vertical plane which is    perpendicular to the second abrasive surface
121. Both of the second abrasive surface 121 and the third abrasive
surface   122 are capable for cooperating           with the sliding base
assembly 2 to realize the sliding process.
     In order to install the slipway matching part onto the operating
platform,    the  above-mentioned        slipway   matching  part   further
comprises a third rib 13 and an edge portion 14. Wherein, the height
of the third rib 13 is less than the height of the first rib 11 and the
height of the second rib 12. The third rib 13 is connected to the second
rib 12. Meanwhile, an installing groove 15 is provided between the
third rib 13 and the edge portion 14. A plurality of slot holes 151 are
provided on the installing groove 15. A plurality of bolts pass through
the plurality of slot holes 151, then the slipway is capable of being
fixed on the operating platform. Furthermore, in order to realize the
accuracy of the adjustment for the material baffle, the slipway
assembly 1 further comprises a scale 16, which is fixed in a rib groove
17 formed between the first rib 11 and the second rib 12, and the
scale 16 is used for positioning the sliding position of the sliding base
assembly 2 accurately.
     Referring to Fig.7, all of the sliding base assembly 2, the eccentric
locking assembly 3, the spacer assembly 4 and the material baffle 5
are capable of sliding relative to the slipway assembly 1. In other
words, all of these assemblies are slidable. Referring to Figs.8-10, the
sliding base assembly 2 could be implemented as a half-surrounded
structure, which     has an integrated       structure. This sliding base
assembly 2 comprises a sliding cover board 21 and a first sliding side
plate 22 and a second sliding side plate 23 located on both sides of the
                                       9

sliding cover board 21 respectively, wherein such two sliding side
plates are respectively connected to two sides of the sliding cover
board 21 in a vertical manner. An upper portion of the sliding cover
board 21 is capable of being fixed to the spacer assembly 4, and a
lower portion of the sliding cover board 21 form a slide matching part,
which is capable of cooperating with the slipway for realizing a sliding
process. Wherein the slide matching part is provided with a plurality of
recesses corresponding to the ribs, the plurality of recesses are
capable of being engaged with the plurality of ribs. The plurality of
recesses include a first recess portion 211 and a second recess portion
212 which are capable of cooperating with the first rib 11 and the
second rib 12 respectively, so as to implement the sliding process. On
one side of the sliding base assembly 2, the first sliding side plate 22
is provided with an axial hole 221, wherein the axial hole 221 and the
eccentric locking assembly 3 are connected through the arbor 6, to
implement a hinge connection between the first sliding side plate 22
and the eccentric locking assembly 3. On the other side of the sliding
base assembly 2, the second sliding side plate 23 is capable of sliding
within the groove between the second rib 12 and the third rib 13
constantly.
     By this way, the sliding base assembly 2 merely contacts with the
first rib 11 and the second rib 12 of the slipway assembly 1. In this
case, a metal friction caused by a relative sliding between the sliding
base assembly 2 and the slipway assembly 1 cannot be prevented. In
order to reduce the sliding friction between the slipway matching part
and the sliding matching part, several wear-resistant elements are
proved between the slipway matching part of the slipway assembly 1
and the sliding matching part of the sliding base assembly 2. Here,
these wear-resistant elements       could  be  wear-resistant   medium
provided on the ribs, or could be implemented as wear-resistant pads
                                     10

provided on the sliding matching part.
     Specifically, referring to Figs.10-12, a first dovetail groove 214
and a second dovetail groove 215 are provided on the first recess
portion   211    and the second      recess portion   212,    respectively,
meanwhile, a third dovetail groove 231 is provided on the second
sliding side plate 23. Here, first wear-resistant pads 24 and second
wear-resistant pads 25 are installed in the first dovetail groove 214
and   the   second    dovetail  groove   215,   respectively;   and   third
wear-resistant pads 26 are located in the third dovetail groove 231.
By this way, all of the direct contact between the first abrasive surface
112 and the first recess portion 211, the direct contact between the
second abrasive surface 121 and the second recess portion 212, and
the direct contact between the third abrasive surface 122 and the
second sliding side plate 23 could be avoided.
     Referring to FIG. 15, these wear-resistant pads have tapered
shapes to facilitate installation. Each wear-resistant pad comprises a
first pad end surface 241 embedded into the dovetail groove and a
second pad end surface 242 being capable of implementing the sliding
step. Here, the surface area of the first pad end surface 241 is greater
than or equal to the surface area of the second pad end surface 242.
Preferably, these wear-resistant       pads are made of non-metallic
materials, e.g., plastic pads or elastic pads. By this way, the metallic
contact   between the sliding base assembly 2 and the slipway
assembly 1 could be avoided, and sliding damages occurred between
these two assemblies could be reduced. Meanwhile, related to the
slipway   assembly     1 and    the sliding   base  assembly     2,  these
wear-resistant pads are independent structure, thus when the wear
caused by a long-time operation is serious, the smoothness could be
recovered by replacing the wear-resistant pads only.
     Referring to Figs.8-12, it should be noted that, for avoiding the
                                     11

relative sliding motion between the sliding cover board 21 and spacer
assembly the 4 during the sliding process, one side of the sliding cover
board 21, with which the spacer assembly 4 is connected, is provided
with a strip-shaped anti-skidding structure 213. Meanwhile, in order
to maximize the sliding efficiency relative to the slipway assembly 1,
the strip-shaped anti-skidding structure 213 extends along the
extending direction of the slipway.
     At the same time, the first sliding side plate 22 is provided with a
plurality of screw holes 222, in which wear-resistant bolts 223 could
be installed. Wherein, the wear-resistant ends of the wear-resistant
bolts 233 towards the locking surface 111, which are used for avoiding
a direct contact between the sliding base assembly 2 and the slipway
assembly 1. Preferably, in order to reduce the production cost, the
wear-resistant bolts 223 could be implemented by plastic bolts.
During the process of assembling the sliding base assembly 2, the
plastic bolts, whose wear-resistant ends toward the locking surface
111, pass through the screw holes 222, and thus a sliding space is
capable of being formed between the sliding base assembly 2and the
slipway assembly 1, so as to eliminate the direct contact between the
sliding base assembly 2 and the slipway assembly 1. Therefore a non
material separation forms between the sliding base assembly 2 and
the slipway assembly 1.
     Referring to Figs.1-4, as mentioned above, driven by the sliding
base assem bly 2, the eccentric locking assem bly 3 is capable of sliding.
Meanwhile, the eccentric locking assembly 3 is used for locking or
unlocking the sliding of the sliding base assembly 2. Preferably, the
eccentric locking assembly 3 could be implemented by an eccentric
handle, which is made of wear-resistant plastic, with good wear
resistance and elasticity. The eccentric handle has an eccentric
structure for implementing locking or unlocking process. Specifically,
                                     12

the eccentric locking assembly 3 is connected to the first sliding side
plate 22 by the arbor 6 and is capable of rotating around the arbor 6,
for implementing locking process or unlocking process applied on the
sliding base assembly 2. When the eccentric locking assembly 3 does
not contact with the locking surface 111 of the slipway assembly 1,
the sliding base assembly 2 is in an unlocking state. At this time, the
sliding base assembly 2 is capable of sliding along the slipway
assembly 1 together with the material baffle 5, thus the cutting size of
the material could be adjusted. When the eccentric locking assembly
3 is pressed downward and the eccentric locking assembly 3 comes in
close contact with the locking surface 111 of the slipway assembly 1,
the sliding base assembly 2 turns into a locking state, at this time, a
cutting operation could be implemented.       Meanwhile, referring to
Fig.13, the matching end of the eccentric locking assembly 3, which
could cooperate with the locking surface 111 of the slipway assembly
1 could be a matching end having a wide area 31, thus the contact
area between the eccentric locking assembly 3 and the first rib 11
could be increased, furthermore, a locking force could be improved.
When the sliding base assembly 2 is locked by the eccentric locking
assembly 3, a supporting force is provided by the sliding base
assembly 2 for the locking process of the sliding base assembly 2,
thus the deformation of the arbor 6 could be relieved. Meanwhile, the
matching end 31 has a wear-resistant surface used for reducing the
friction between the slipway assembly 1 and the matching end 31.
      The spacer assembly 4 is provided between the sliding base
assembly 2 and the material baffle 5 and is used for fixing the material
baffle 5 on the sliding base assembly 2. By this way, the material
baffle 5 is capable of sliding along the slipway assembly 1 together
with the sliding base assembly 2. Referring to Fig.11 and Fig.14, the
spacer assembly 4 includes a spacer body 41, spacer plugs 42 and a
                                   13

locking bracket 43. Preferably, the pad body 41 forms a hollow cavity
to reduce the total weight of the spacer assembly 4 and to further
reduce the sliding resistance. Both the upper portion and the lower
portion of the pad body 41 are provided with bolt holes, thereby fixing
bolts 411 are capable passing through these bolt holes and are used
for fixing the spacer body 41 to the sliding cover board 21.         For
improving the fastening between the fixing blot 411 and the spacer
body 41, an elastic washer 412 and a flat washer 413 are further
sequentially arranged at the junction of the fixing blot 411 and the
spacer body 41.      Furthermore,  in order to avoid a rigid contact
between the pad body 41 and the sliding cover board 21, a shim 7 is
provided between the lower portion of the pad body 41 and the sliding
cover board 21, so as to separate the pad body 41 from the sliding
cover board 21. The spacer plugs 42 are plugging elements which are
installed on both sides of the spacer body 41 and are used for
plugging both ends of the hollow cavity of the spacer body 41. The
locking bracket 43 is used for connecting the spacer body 41 and the
material baffle 5. The locking bracket 43 comprises a first connecting
portion and second connecting portions, where the first connecting
portion is perpendicular to the second connecting portions. The first
connecting portion has a strip-shaped structure and is capable of
being embedded into the material baffle 5 to connect to the material
baffle 5. Each second connecting portion has a cylindrical structure,
these second connecting portions are capable of penetrating the
spacer body 41 from its lateral side and is capable of connecting to the
spacer body 41 by combined nuts 51. Wherein, the installing position
between the spacer body 41 and the second connecting portion could
be adjusted by the adjustment of the combined nut 51. By this way,
the relative position between the material baffle 5 and the sliding base
assembly 2 could be adjusted.
                                    14

     The material baffle 5 is connected to the spacer assembly 4
through the locking bracket 43. The material baffle plate 5 is provided
with a T-shaped groove, and the first connecting portion of the locking
bracket 43 could be embedded into this T-shaped groove. Here, it
should be noted that, the connection relationship between the first
connecting portion and the T-shaped groove could be implemented
according to following two embodiments..         According to the first
embodiment, the first connecting portion and the T-shaped groove
are connected to each other in a sliding manner, i.e., the first
connecting portion is capable of sliding relative to the T-shaped
groove. According to the second embodiment, the first connecting
portion and the T-shaped groove are connected in a fixing manner, i.e.,
a relative movement between the first connecting portion and the
T-shaped groove is impossible. When it is necessary to adjust the
distance between the material baffle 5 and the slipway assembly 1 in
a direction that is perpendicular to the slipway assembly 1, the first
embodiment could be implemented. At this time, the sliding base
assembly 2 should be in the locking state and the material baffle 5 is
pushed by it , since both of the sliding base assembly 2 and the spacer
assembly 4 are locked and static, there is a relative movement
occurred between the T-shaped groove of the material baffle 5 and
the first connecting portion of the spacer assembly 4, until the
material baffle 5 arrives at a desired position.
     The operation of the material baffle mechanism includes adjusting
process, locking process and unlocking process. The processes will be
described hereafter.
     During the adjusting process, the sliding base assembly 2, the
eccentric locking assembly 3, the spacer assembly 4 and the material
baffle 5 are sequentially installed above the slipway assembly 1.
Meanwhile,    the first wear-resistant    pad 24 of the sliding base
                                     15

assembly      2, the second wear-resistant     pad   25 and     the third
wear-resistant pad 26 of the sliding base assembly 2 are connected
with the first abrasive surface 112, the second abrasive surface 121
and the third abrasive surface 122,        respectively. Meanwhile,     by
adjusting the wear-resistant bolt 223 finely, a sliding space between
the abrasive surface and the locking surface 111 of the slipway
assembly 1 could be formed.
      During the unlocking process, the eccentric locking assembly 3 is
lifted, when the eccentric locking assembly 3 does not contact with
the locking surface 111 of the slipway assembly 1, the sliding base
assembly 2 could be capable of sliding relative to the slipway
assembly 1. At this time, the position of the material baffle 5 on the
slipway assembly 1 could be adjusted according to the scale 16, to
realize a fast and precise positioning.
      During the locking process, the eccentric locking assembly 3 is
pressed downward. When the eccentric locking assembly 3 comes in
close contact with the locking surface 111 of the slipway assembly 1,
the sliding base assembly 2 and the slipway assembly 1 are locking. At
the moment, both the spacer assem bly 4 and the material baffle 5 are
in a locking state to perform a cutting process for the materials.
      Referring  to Fig.16,  the present    invention  also   provides a
woodworking band sawing machine, which comprises the material
baffle mechanism mentioned above. During the operation of the band
sawing machine, the material baffle mechanism is capable of being
mounted on the operating platform 8. When the band saw machine
stands idle, the sliding assembly is capable of being hung on the body
of the band sawing machine 9, as shown in FIG. 17, to save the space
occupied by the operating platform.
      Please be noted that: what is described above is not a limitation to
the present invention. It should be understood that for those skilled in
                                     16

the art, under the premise of not departing from the substantial scope
of the present invention, various changes, modifications, additions or
replacements can also be made, and these improvements and
modifications should also be regarded as falling into the protection
scope of the present invention.
                                   17

                                  CLAI MS
1. A material baffle mechanism,       the material   baffle mechanism
   comprising: a slipway assembly (1) and a sliding base assembly (2)
   connected     with  a   material baffle, wherein   the sliding  base
   assembly (2) is capable of sliding relative to the slipway assembly
   (1), wherein the slipway assembly (1) includes a slipway matching
   part and the sliding base assembly (2) includes a sliding matching
   part, one or more wear-resistant elements are provided between
   the slipway matching part and the sliding matching part to reduce
   sliding friction between the slipway matching part and the sliding
   matching part.
2. The material baffle mechanism of claim 1, wherein the slipway
   matching part is provided with ribs, and the sliding matching part
   is provided with recesses corresponding to the ribs, where the
   recesses are capable of being engaged with the ribs, so that the
   sliding base assembly (2) could slide along the slipway assembly
   (1).
3. The    material    baffle mechanism     of claim    2,  wherein  the
   wear-resistant element could be wear-resistant medium provided
   on the ribs.
4. The    material    baffle mechanism     of claim    2,  wherein  the
   wear-resistant elements could be one or more wear-resistant pads
   provided in the recesses, and the wear-resistant pads contact with
   the ribs when the sliding base assembly (2)         slides along the
                                    1

   slipway assembly (1).
5. The material baffle mechanism of claim 4, wherein the recesses
   include a first recess portion and a second recess portion, the
   wear-resistant pads include one or more first wear-resistant pads
   disposed in the first recess portion and one or more second
   wear-resistant    pads disposed      in   the second    recess  portion,
   wherein the first recess portion and the second recess portion are
   provided with a first dovetail groove and a second dovetail groove,
   which are used for disposing the corresponding one or more first
   wear-resistant pads and the corresponding          one or more second
   wear-resistant pads, respectively.
6. The   material    baffle   mechanism       of claim   5,   wherein   the
   wear-resistant elements      further    include   one  or   more   third
   wear-resistant pads disposed on one side wall of the sliding base
   assembly (2), and wherein a third dovetail groove is provided on
   the side wall of said sliding base assembly (2) and is configured to
   locate the one or more third wear-resistant pads.
7. The   material    baffle   mechanism       of claim   6,   wherein   the
   wear-resistant element further comprises a first pad end surface
   embedded into the sliding base assembly (2)          and a second pad
   end surface being capable of cooperating in the sliding movement,
   where the surface area of the first pad end surface is greater than
   or equal to the surface area of the second pad end surface.
                                     2

8. The    material  baffle  mechanism       of  claim   6,   wherein   the
   wear-resistant elements       further    includes    one     or    more
   wear-resistant bolts (223) installed on the other side wall of the
   sliding  base   assembly     (2),    a wear-resistant     end   of  the
   wear-resistant bolt faces towards the plurality of ribs, so as to
   separate the other side of the sliding base assembly (2) from the
   slipway assembly (1) during the sliding movement of the sliding
   base assembly (2).
9. The material baffle mechanism of claim 1, wherein the material
   baffle  mechanism       further     comprises   an  eccentric   locking
   assembly (3) which is capable of locking the sliding base assembly
   (2) and the slipway assembly (1),      wherein the eccentric locking
   assembly (3) is provided with a wear-resistant surface capable of
   locking the slipway assembly (1).
10.A woodworking band sawing machine, the woodworking band
   sawing   machine    comprises      the  material   baffle   mechanism
   according to any one of claims 1-9.
                                     3

<removed-date>
              D RAW I N GS
<removed-apn>
                 FI G. 1
                 FI G. 2
                    1

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              FI G. 3
              FI G. 4
              FI G. 5
                 2

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              FI G. 6
              FI G. 7
              FI G. 8
                 3

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              FI G. 9
              FI G. 10
              FI G. 11
                 4

                          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
5
    FI G. 13   FI G. 12

                          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
6
    FI G. 15   FI G. 14

                          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
7
    FI G. 17   FI G. 16

