Abstract
The present invention is an air pruning nursery pot, including a base, sidewall, and a rim,
wherein at least the sidewall is corrugated and substantially V shaped and thereby has a series
of parallel ridges and valleys. The corrugations are shallow, and at least some of the faces of
the corrugations, between a particular ridge and its associated valley, includes a plurality of
apertures that are misaligned with respect to adjacent faces, and the port includes a base that
enables excellent drainage and air flow, that prevents the roots growing down though the base
of the pot, and thereby becoming entangled with the pot.

             3/5
17
   215
                    212
       21        23
          FIG. 4

                                                  1
                                          A Nursery Pot
Field of the Invention
[0001]    The present invention relates to nursery pots, and in particular to air pruning nursery
pots.
Background of the Invention
[0002]   Air pruning pots are known. They are used, particularly in nurseries, to ensure the
plant has a healthy root structure. Common air pruning pots include corrugated sidewalls,
and some, or all of the corrugations include a plurality of apertures. Typically the shape of
the corrugations are curved, and each particular corrugation is deep. This creates a number of
problems relating to their efficiency at air pruning, and their stackability.
[0003]    Firstly, the root of many plants will continue to grow unless and until it encounters
one of the plurality of apertures. With conventional air pruning pots, the roots may, by
chance, miss consecutive apertures as they grow, and will therefore continue to extend
around the inner wall of the nursery pot.
[0004]    Secondly, deep corrugations make it harder for a particular root to grow into the
depth of the corrugation and encounter the inner sidewall of the pot.
[0005]    Further, the deeper the corrugation, the quicker the soil in the vicinity of the
corrugations will dry out.
[0006]    When it comes time to remove the plant from the nursery pot, so it can be
transplanted, the deep corrugations, having a greater surface area, provide greater resistance
to the easy withdrawal of the plant from the pot. This may damage the plant.
[0007]    Further, the deep corrugations, and their associated increased surface area, make the
force required to stack the nursery pots, and then subsequently separating them again, greater

                                                  2
than it would otherwise require.
[0008]    Finally, the structure of the base of the pot is also important to ensure root growth is
pruned to prevent the roots extending through apertures in the base of the pot and thereby
becoming entangled with the pot.
[0009]    The object of the present invention is to provide an air pruning nursery pot that at
least mitigates some of the aforementioned problems.
Disclosure of the Invention
[0010]    Accordingly, in one form, the present invention is an air pruning nursery pot,
including a base, sidewall, and a rim, wherein at least the sidewall is corrugated and thereby
has a series of parallel ridges and valleys. The corrugations are shallow, and at least some of
the faces of the corrugations, between a particular ridge and its associated valley, includes a
plurality of apertures.
[0011]    Preferably, each shallow corrugation is substantially V shaped so that the face
between each ridge and valley is substantially flat.
[0012]    Preferably, the V shape is wide, with an angle at the apex of each V shaped
corrugation, also known in Engineering parlance as the "included angle", irrespective of
whether that corresponds to a ridge, or a valley, in the range of 125 to 155 degrees.
[0013]    Preferably, at least some of the apertures are slot shaped.
[0014]    Preferably, the apertures are aligned vertically with respect to the sidewall of the pot.
[0015]    Preferably, the vertically aligned apertures are located on each flat face of each
corrugation, substantially halfway between each corrugation's respective ridge and valley.
[0016]    Preferably, the vertically aligned apertures on one face of one corrugation is offset

                                                 3
from the vertically aligned apertures on its neighbouring face, so that wherever there is a gap
between neighbouring apertures in one vertically aligned face, there is a corresponding
aperture, in the vertically aligned apertures, on its neighbouring face.
[0017]    Preferably, each aperture is slot shaped.
[0018]    Preferably, the longitudinal axis of each slot is collinear with the vertical alignment
of the apertures on the particular face.
[0019]    Optionally, the base of the pot includes a plurality of hollow extensions.
[0020]    Preferably, each hollow extension, within the plurality of hollow extensions, is
evenly spaced around the periphery of the base of the pot.
[0021]    Preferably, each hollow extension includes a solid wall that has its respective ends
coinciding with the periphery of the base of the pot, and extends partway into the base of the
pot.
[0022]    Preferably, each solid wall is arcuate shaped.
[0023]    Preferably, each face that corresponds with the V shaped corrugations includes a tab
that extends downwardly from the base of the pot, and these combine to form a plurality of
tabs the extend partway around the periphery of the base of the pot, between the respective
ends of the solid wall.
[0024]    Preferably, there is a gap between each adjacent tab in the plurality of tabs.
[0025]    Preferably, a gusset extends radially inwardly from each tab to thereby strengthen
the tab and to mitigate tabs from being accidently broken off the base of the pot.
[0026]    Preferably, each gusset extends from its respective tab to the solid wall.

                                                  4
Brief Description of the Drawings
[0027]    Figure 1 is an isometric view of the present invention, looking down from the top of
the nursery pot, according to one preferred form of the invention.
[0028]    Figure 2 is a side view of the nursery pot showing a couple of exploded views,
according to one preferred form of the invention.
[0029]    Figure 3 is a top view of the nursery pot according to one preferred form of the
invention.
[0030]    Figure 4 is an isometric view looking up towards the base of a pot according to
another preferred embodiment of the invention.
[0031]    Figure 5 is an isometric view looking down towards the top of a pot according to
another preferred embodiment of the invention.
[0032]    Figure 6 is an isometric view of the base of a port according to another preferred
form of the invention.
Description of the preferred embodiments
[0033]    Turning firstly to Figure 1, where we are shown an isometric view of a first
preferred embodiment of the present invention. In this embodiment, the nursery pot 1 has a
substantially circular cross section, and the sidewall 3 is corrugated thereby creating a series
of alternating ridges and valleys around the entire periphery of the pot 1. Each corrugation 7
is substantially V shaped, and the angle of the apex 5 of each V shape is in the ranger of 125
to 155 degrees. This provides a very shallow corrugation 7. Each V shaped corrugation 7
has a pair of flat faces 11, and each flat face 11 includes a plurality of slot shaped apertures 9.
The plurality of apertures 9 are vertically aligned on each respective flat face 11, and each
aligned plurality of apertures 9 is located on the flat face 11 about halfway between its
adjacent valley and ridge. The aligned apertures on a particular flat face 11 are out of phase

                                                  5
with the aligned apertures on its adjacent aligned apertures on the next flat face. This creates
the arrangement where the gaps 13 between the aligned apertures 9 on one flat face 11 have a
corresponding aperture 9 on the adjacent flat face 11 as you move circumferentially around
the wall of the pot.
[0034]    One advantage of this arrangement, as the roots of the plant make contact with the
inner wall of the nursery pot 1, and then start to grow circumferentially, eventually the root
will encounter an aperture 9. If the root happens to pass across one of the gaps 13 in a
particular flat face 11, it will continue to lengthen until it reaches the adjacent flat face 11,
where it will encounter an aperture 9. Another advantage of the present invention is that the
comparatively shallow corrugation makes it easier for a root to grow into the corrugation and
encounter a particular aperture 9. Deeper conventional corrugations may allow the root to
pass across the corrugation, and not grow into it, so that is may avoid encountering an
aperture 9.
[0035]    The nursery pot 1 of the present invention is designed to be stackable, and therefore
the comparatively shallow corrugations 7 reduce the surface area of the sidewall 3 of each pot
in the stack. This reduces the force required to stack them together, and to separate them
again. A further advantage of having a shallow corrugation, as compared to the conventional
deeper corrugation is that the soil in the vicinity of a particular corrugation within the pot, is
less likely to dry out. The shallower corrugations also make it easier to remove the plant
from the nursery pot, when the time comes to transplant it.
[0036]    Turning to Figure 2, where we are shown a side view of the nursery pot 1, we are
shown two exploded views that more clearly show the plurality of aligned apertures 9, and its
associated gap 13. It is also easier to see how each successive vertically aligned row of
apertures 9 is out of phase with the vertically aligned row of apertures 9 of its adjacent row.
It can be easily seen that if any root travelling in a circumferential direction around the inner
wall of the pot 1 happens to pass by chance across a gap 13 on a particular flat face 11, then it
will encounter an aperture 9 on the next flat face 11. This, coupled with the comparative
shallowness of each corrugation, provide a more efficient air pruning action on the roots of
the plant contained within the pot.

                                                  6
[0037]     Turning to Figure 3, we can see the corrugations are present all the way from the rim
15 of the pot 1, down to the base 17.
[0038]     Turning to Figure 4, we are shown an isometric view of another preferred
embodiment of the present invention. In this preferred embodiment, the base 17 of the pot
has been modified to improve air flow, and to thereby increase the air pruning effect on the
roots that grow downwardly onto the base 17 of the pot. In this embodiment, the base 17
includes a plurality of tab extensions 19 that extend downwardly. Each tab 19 corresponds to
a flat face 1 in the V shaped corrugations. There is a gap 21 between each adjacent tab 19.
In this illustration, an arcuate shaped solid wall 23 extends partway into the base 17 of the
pot, with each respective end of the wall 23 coinciding with the periphery of the base 17. The
arcuate shape is preferred, however any suitable shape could be used without departing from
the essence of the invention. The plurality of tab extensions 19 extends between the two
points where the solid wall 23 coincides with the periphery of the base 17. A plurality of
gussets 25 strengthen each tab extension 19 and also add support to the solid wall 23. This
gives the structure more robustness to withstand the rigours of use.
[0039]     Figure 5 is another view of the other preferred embodiment of the present invention.
In this view, it is easy to see how the plurality of tab extension 19 extend downwardly from
the base of the pot 1. The base of the pot includes a plurality of concentric slots, and through
these slots, a portion of the solid wall 23 can be seen.
[0040]     Finally, in Figure 6 we can see the base 17 in closer detail.
[0041]     While the above description includes the preferred embodiments of the invention, it
is to be understood that many variations, alterations, modifications and/or additions may be
introduced into the constructions and arrangements of parts previously described without
departing from the essential features or the spirit or ambit of the invention.
[0042]     It will be also understood that where the word "comprise", and variations such as
"comprises" and "comprising", are used in this specification, unless the context requires

                                                 7
otherwise such use is intended to imply the inclusion of a stated feature or features but is not
to be taken as excluding the presence of other feature or features.
[0043]   The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as,
an acknowledgment or any form of suggestion that such prior art forms part of the common
general knowledge.

                                                 8
Claims
1.     An air pruning nursery pot, including a base, sidewall, and a rim, wherein at least the
sidewall is corrugated and thereby has a series of parallel ridges and valleys, and wherein the
corrugations are shallow, and at least some of the faces of the corrugations, between a
particular ridge and its associated valley, includes a plurality of apertures.
2.     The air pruning pot as defined in claim 1 wherein each shallow corrugation is
substantially V shaped so that the face between each ridge and valley is substantially flat.
3.     The air pruning pot as defined in claim 2 wherein the V shape is wide, with an angle at
the apex of each V shaped corrugation, also known in Engineering parlance as the "included
angle", irrespective of whether that corresponds to a ridge, or a valley, in the range of 125 to
155 degrees.
4.     The air pruning pot as defined in claim 3 wherein the apertures are aligned vertically
with respect to the sidewall of the pot.
5.     The air pruning pot as defined in claim 4 wherein the vertically aligned apertures are
located on each flat face of each corrugation, substantially halfway between each
corrugation's respective ridge and valley.
6.     The air pruning pot as defined in claim 5 wherein the vertically aligned apertures on
one face of one corrugation is offset from the vertically aligned apertures on its neighbouring
face, so that wherever there is a gap between neighbouring apertures in one vertically aligned
face, there is a corresponding aperture, in the vertically aligned apertures, on its neighbouring
face.
7.     The air pruning pot as defined in claim 6 wherein at least some of the apertures are slot
shaped.
8.     The air pruning pot as defined in claim 7 wherein the longitudinal axis of each slot is

                                                 9
collinear with the vertical alignment of the apertures on the particular face.
9.     The air pruning pot as defined in claim 2 wherein the base of the pot includes a
plurality of hollow extensions.
10.    The air pruning pot as defined in claim 9 wherein each hollow extension, within the
plurality of hollow extensions, is evenly spaced around the periphery of the base of the pot.
11.    The air pruning pot as defined in claim 10 wherein each hollow extension includes a
solid wall that has its respective ends coinciding with the periphery of the base of the pot, and
extends partway into the base of the pot.
12.    The air pruning pot as defined in claim 11 wherein each solid wall is arcuate shaped.
13.    The air pruning pot as defined in claim 12 wherein each face that corresponds with the
V shaped corrugations includes a tab that extends downwardly from the base of the pot, and
these combine to form a plurality of tabs the extend partway around the periphery of the base
of the pot, between the respective ends of the solid wall.
14.    The air pruning pot as defined in claim 13 wherein there is a gap between each adjacent
tab in the plurality of tabs.
15.    The air pruning pot as defined in claim 14 wherein a gusset extends radially inwardly
from each tab to thereby strengthen the tab and to mitigate tabs from being accidently broken
off the base of the pot.
16.    The air pruning pot as defined in claim 15 wherein each gusset extends from its
respective tab to the solid wall.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
