ABSTRACT
A mobile floor cleaning robot comprising:a robot body defining a forward drive direction; a
drive supporting the robot body to maneuver the robot across a floor surface the drive
comprising right and left drive wheels disposed on corresponding right and left portions of
the robot body; and a cleaning assembly disposed on the robot body, the cleaning assembly
comprising: a pad holder disposed forward of the drive wheels and having a top portion and a
bottom portion, the bottom portion having a bottom surface to receive a cleaning pad, the
bottom surface of the pad holder comprising at least 40% of a surface area of a footprint of
the robot, and the bottom portion having raised protrusions extending therefrom; and an
orbital oscillator having less than 1 cm of orbital range disposed on the top portion of the pad
holder; wherein the pad holder is configured to permit more than 80 percent of the orbital
range of the orbital oscillator to be transmitted from a top of the received cleaning pad to a
bottom surface of the received cleaning pad and wherein the pad holder has a release
mechanism configured to eject the received cleaning pad from the bottom surface of the pad
holder upon actuation of a release mechanism.

                          1/21
                                                              102a
                        W~l                                      10a
                   A2             Layer 2: Airlaid Layer102
                                                               0
             WA3     ~      ~~~~LA3 ae1:AradL
       TA3
100              10610                                      104
                                  Layer   : Airlaid  Layer
             WL                                                105
           100                                                  105a
                                                            1    05b
    1FIG                         1A4
                       LL

                       2.docx-22/05/2018
                        A MOBILE FLOOR CLEANING ROBOT
[0001]      The entire contents of the complete specifications of Australian Patent
Application Nos. 2014348883 and <removed-apn> as originally filed are incorporated herein
by reference.
[0001A]     The present application is a Continuation-In-Part of U.S. Application Ser. No.
14/077,296 (Attorney Docket No. 225899-341316) entitled "Autonomous Surface
Cleaning Robot" filed November 12, 2013 and claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional
Patent Application Ser. No. 61/902,838 (Attorney Docket No. 225899-345297) entitled
"Cleaning Pad" filed November 12, 2013, and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser.
No. 62/059,637 (Attorney Docket No. V46645) entitled, "Surface Cleaning Pad" filed
October 3, 2014. Each of the aforementioned applications is assigned to an entity common
hereto. Further, the entirety of each one of the aforementioned patent applications is
incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.
                                         TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002]      This disclosure relates to floor cleaning using a cleaning pad.
                                          BACKGROUND
[0003]      Tiled floors and countertops routinely need cleaning, some of which entails
scrubbing to remove dried in soils. Various cleaning implements can be used for cleaning
hard surfaces. Most implements include a cleaning pad that may be removably attached to
the implement. The cleaning pads may be disposable or reusable. In some examples, the
cleaning pads are designed to fit a specific implement or may be designed for more than
one implement.
Traditionally, wet mops are used to remove dirt and other dirty smears (e.g., dirt, oil, food,
sauces, coffee, coffee grounds) from the surface of a floor. A person usually dips the mop
in a bucket of water and soap or a specialized floor cleaning solution and rubs the floor
with the mop.      In some examples, the person may have to perform back and forth
scrubbing movements to clean a specific dirt area. The person then dips the mop in the
same bucket of water to clean the mop and continues to scrub the floor. Additionally, the

   TIitci
    I     emocNRPonb*DCCOGWl
                           ll%7I _Ido1- Ii tl 111
                                                    -2
                                                                             be cumbersome and
person may need to kneel on the floor to clean the floor, which could
exhausting, especially when the floor covers a large area.
[00051             Floor mops are used to scrub floors without the need for a person go on their
knees. A pad attached to the mop or an autonomous robot can scrub and remove solids
from surfaces and prevents a user from bending over to clean the surface. which prevents a
injuries to the user.
                                                  SUMMARY
 [00061             A surface cleaning pad is described including an absorbent core containing
fiber material which absorbs and retains liquid material, a liner layer (also herein
throughout called a "wrap layer") in contact with and covering at least one side of the
absorbent core, containing fiber material which retains and wicks liquid material through
the liner layer. In embodiments, the cleaning pad is disposable or washable and reusable.
 [0007]             Additional embodiments include the following elements or characteristics taken
in combination or sub-combination to provide the advantages of absorbing and retaining
fluid and suspended debris for a compact mobile robot weighing less than 2.25 kg. The
following elements or characteristics taken in combination or sub-combination create a pad
that wicks moisture and debris into the absorbent core without expanding and raising the
front edge of the lightweight robot, which would impede the movement pattern and
cleaning efficacy of the robot because maximum downward force, such as I pound of
force, would no longer be applied to the pad: the pad described above where the pad
absorbs about 20 milliliters of liquid material in about 10 seconds with about 0.9 pounds of
pressure on the pad; the pad described above where the absorbent core retains up to about
90% by volume of the liquid material absorbed; the pad described above where the liquid
material is substantially evenly distributed throughout the absorbent core; the pad
described above where the core material absorbs up to about 7 to about 10 times its weight:
the pad described above where the liner layer retains up to about 10% of the liquid material
absorbed; the pad described above where the absorbent core comprises cellulose fibers: the
pad described above where the absorbent core comprises a mixture of cellulosic and
polymer fibers; the pad described above where the absorbent core comprises non-woven

H plle oe RorIblDC(>GO I'XM I deA-i'l l
                                              -3
cellulose pulp; the pad described above where the cellulose pulp is polymer bonded: the
pad described above where the polymer comprises polyethylene and/or polypropylene: the
pad described above where the absorbent core additionally contains a surface layer
comprising acrylic latex, for example, to eliminate linting; the pad described above where
the pad does not substantially compress or expand when absorbing or retaining liquid, for
example, when wet; the pad described above where the pad includes a backing layer
attached to the pad and particularly adapted to attach the pad to a cleaning apparatus: the
pad described above where the backing layer comprises cardboard; the pad described
above where the cardboard backing layer is between 0.1 and 0.05 inch thick (0.254 cm to
0.127 cm thick); the pad described above where the cardboard backing layer is 0.028 inch
thick (0.07 cm thick); the pad described above where the pad is coated with a polymer: the
pad described above where the polymer coating is about 0.010 to about 0.040 inch thick
(.0254 cm to 0.1016 cm thick); the pad described above where the polymer is any polymer
or wax material that can seal against liquid penetration. such as water, for example (such as
polyvinyl alcohol or polyamine, for example); the pad described above where the
cardboard is attached to the pad with an adhesive; the pad described above where the
absorbent core comprises first, second, and third airlaid layers, each airlaid layer having a
top surface and a bottom surface, the bottom surface of the first airlaid layer disposed on
the top surface of the second airlaid layer, the bottom surface of the second airlaid layer
disposed on the top surface of the third airlaid layer; the pad described above where the
liner layer is wrapped around and covers at least two sides of the absorbent core; the pad
described above where the liner layer comprises a spunlace layer; the pad described above
where the liner layer comprises a hydroentangled spunbond or spunlace layer having
reduced thickness indentations therein on a floor facing surface and having a basis weight
of 35-40 gsm (grams per square meter). When a pad 100 is damp, not enough fluid is
present to lubricate the interface between the bottom surface of the pad and the floor
surface. A fully wetted pad will ride on a layer of fluid while the pad is moving over a
floor surface, but as the damp pad slowly absorbs fluid, the not fully wet, not fully
lubricated, wrap layer will drag on the floor surface. In implementations, the spunbond or
spunlace wrap layer is manufactured with hydrophilic fibers that minimize the surface area
of the pad exposed to air between the pad and the floor surface. A wet pad would stick to

                                              -4
the hydrophilic floor surface if the indentations or needle punches were not part of the
wrap layer. Applying a surface texture to the spunbond or spunlace of the wrap layer, such
as a herringbone indentation patter or a square grid indentation pattern, breaks the surface
tension that would otherwise case a wet pad to stick to a wet floor surface.
 [00081      In implementations of the pad, the liner layer includes meltblown abrasive
fibers adhered to the side of the liner layer not in contact with the absorbent core; the pad
described above where the meltblown fibers have a diameter of between about 0.1 pm and
about 20 pm; the pad described above where the meltblown abrasive fibers cover between
about 44 percent and about 75 percent of the surface of the liner layer; In implementations
of the pad, the meltblown abrasive fibers cover between about 50% and about 60% of the
surface of the liner layer. The meltblown layer provides the pad with the advantages of
breaking surface tension that might otherwise cause the wet wrap layer to stick to a wet
floor. By adding texture and topography to a floor facing surface of the pad, the meltblown
 layer prevents the pad from sticking or encountering high drag forces. The meltblown
 layer also provides the pad with surface texture for roughing up dirt and debris stuck or
dried to a floor surface and loosening dirt and debris for absorption by the airlaid inner
core of the pad. In implementations of the pad the meltblown abrasive fibers and the liner
layer have a collective thickness of between about 0.5 mm (millimeter) and about 0.7 mm.
In other words, the maximum overlapped thickness from the outer layer of the applied
meltblown to the surface of the wrap layer is 0.7mm. In implementations of the pad, the
wrap layer has a thickness of between about 0.5 mm and about 0.7mm. In
implementations, the wrap layer has a Worldwide Strategic Partners (WSP) 10.1(05)
nonwoven materials water absorption test specification value of about 600%; the pad
described above where the pad increases in thickness by less than 30% after liquid material
absorption. In implementations, the pad additionally contains one or more of a scent agent,
cleaning agent, surfactant, foaming agent, glossing agent, chemical preservative, debris
retention agent (such as DRAKESOL) and/or anti-bacterial agent. In implementations,
the pad has a thickness of between about 6.5 mm and about 8.5 mm. In implementations,
the pad has a width of between about 68 millimeters and about 80 millimeters and a length
of between about 165 millimeters and about 212 millimeters. In implementations, the liner
layer has a width of between about 163 millimeters and about 169 millimeters and a length

    H ouc11e\NRrrthhD CC G I11%1siI d-cu I 1136 I
                                                     -5
between about 205 millimeters and about 301 millimeters. In implementations. the
absorbent core comprises a first airlaid layer adhered to a second airlaid layer and the
second airlaid layer is adhered to a third airlaid layer.
[0009]              Fluid wicks between the three layers and is retained uniformly vertically
throughout the stack of airlaid layers without leaking back onto a floor surface beneath the
cleaning pad while downward force is applied to the pad. In implementations, the pad
retains 90 percent of fluid applied to a floor surface and under I pound of force. the pad
does not leak absorbed fluid back onto the floor surface. The surface tension the top and
bottom surfaces of each airlaid layer helps retain wicked fluid within each layer such that
as the top layer fully saturates, no fluid will leak down to the middle airlaid layer through
the bottom surface I1b of the top airlaid layer, and as the middle airlaid layer fully
saturates, no fluid will leak down to the bottom layer through the bottom surface of the
middle (or second) layer.
 [0010]             In implementations, the pad soaks tip 8-10 times its weight in fluid into a
relatively rigid matrix of airlaid layers that does not deform in any dimension when fully
wet, and fluid absorption is achieved through capillary wicking, not by compress-release
drawing because robot to which the pad is attached exerts very light, low variability cycle
weight, not a cycle of heavy human push down and draw back. Each of airlaid layer slows
down penetration of wicked fluid to the next adjacent airlaid layer such that early cycles of
fluid application do not lead to the pay quickly sopping up all the fluid that is applied to
the floor surface. The vertical stack of airlaid layers provides a resistance to puddling at the
bottom of the airlaid core comprising the three airlaid layers. Each of the of airlaid layers
has its own puddle resisting bottom surface for preventing puddling of absorbed fluid all
the way down at the bottom of the bottom surface of the bottom (or third) layer.
 [0011]             In implementations, the airlaid layers are of non-uniform hardness or density in
the vertically direction such the outer top and bottom surfaces are harder than the interior
of each layer. In embodiments, as a characteristic of the manufacturing process, the airlaid
layers are of non-uniform surface density such that the outer top and bottom surfaces are
smoother and less absorptive than the interior of each layer. By varying the surface density

11WIlen 0,c4i\NRP~nblDCOGW %I I  1
                                _de clill16
                                                   -6
at the outer surfaces of each of the airlaid layer, the airlaid layers remain absorptive.
wicking fluid into each airlaid layer without leaking back through the bottom surfaces. By
 incorporating three such airlaid layers into the absorptive core of the pad, the pad therefore
 has superior fluid retention properties over a pad having a single core of thickness
 equivalent to the three layer stacked core. The three airlaid layers provide at least triple the
 amount of surface tension for
 [00121             In implementations of the pad, the three airlaid layers are adhered to each other
 by means of an adhesive material. In some implementations, the adhesive material is
 applied in at least two evenly spaced strips along the length of at least one side of an airlaid
 layer and covers not more than 10% of the surface area of the at least one side. In
 implementations, of the pad the adhesive material is sprayed on the length of at least one
 side of an airlaid layer and covers not more than 10% of the surface area of the at least one
 side. In implementations of the pad, at least one airlaid layer comprises a cellulose based
 textile material. In some implementations, at least one airlaid layer, and preferably all three
 airlaid layers, comprises wood pulp. In some implementations. one or more of the airlaid
 layers comprises biocomponent polymers, cellulose, and latex and the polymer is present
 in an amount up to about 15% by weight.
 [00131            A method for constructing a cleaning pad is also described, including disposing
 a first airlaid layer on a second airlaid layer; disposing the second airlaid layer on a third
 airlaid layer; and wrapping a wrap layer around the first, second, and third airlaid layers,
 the wrap layer comprising: a fiber composition; and a meltblown abrasive adhered to the
 fiber composition on an outer surface positioned to interface with a floor surface beneath
 the cleaning pad, the fiber composition being a spunlace or spunbond material.
 [0014]            Additional embodiments of the method for constructing a cleaning pad include
 the following elements or characteristics taken in combination or sub-combination to
 provide the advantages of scrubbing debris from a floor surface and absorbing and
 retaining fluid and suspended debris when the pad is attached to a compact mobile robot
 weighing less than 2.25 kg without impeding the back and forth birdsfoot or vining
 scrubbing pattern and cleaning efficacy of the robot. The following elements or

  gtI c. o'I-- ' oI ht DC<W
                          M 967 I b' h1.141 61
                                                     -7
characteristics taken in combination or sub-combination create a pad that wicks moisture
and debris into the absorbent core without expanding and raising the front edge of the
lightweight robot, which would prevent the robot from applying maximum downward
force to the pad: the method further comprising adhering and randomly arranging
meltblown abrasive fibers on the wrap layer; the method described above where the
meltblown abrasive fibers having a diameter of between about 8 pm and about 20 pm: the
method described above further comprising arranging the meltblown abrasive and the wrap
layer to have a collective thickness of between about 0.5 mm and about 0.7 mm: the
method described above further comprising arranging the meltblown abrasive on the wrap
layer to provide a covered surface ratio between the meltblown abrasive and the wrap layer
of between about 44% and 57%; the pad described above where the meltblown abrasive
fibers cover between about 50% and about 60% of the surface of the liner layer; the
method described above further comprising adhering the first airlaid layer to the second
airlaid layer and adhering the second airlaid layer to the third airlaid layer: the method
described above where the airlaid layer is a cellulose based textile material; the method
described above where the first, second, and third airlaid layers, the spunlace layer, and the
meltblown abrasive are configured to increase in thickness by less than 30% after fluid
absorption; the method described above further comprising configuring the airlaid layers
and wrap layer to have a combined width of between about 80 millimeters and about 68
millimeters and a combined length of between about 200 millimeters and about 212
millimeters; the method described above further comprising configuring the airlaid layers
and the wrap layer to have a combined thickness of between about 6.5 millimeters and
about 8.5 millimeters; the method described above further comprising configuring the
airlaid layers have a combined airlaid width of between about 69 millimeters and about 75
millimeters and a combined airlaid length between about 165 millimeters and about 171
millimeters.
100151               A surface cleaning apparatus is also described having attached thereto the
cleaning pad described above. Additional embodiments include where the surface cleaning
apparatus is a mop or autonomous mobile robot: the surface cleaning apparatus described
above where the pad is releaseably attached to the surface cleaning apparatus through a
backing layer attached to the pad; the surface cleaning apparatus described above where

1ge  cmo             O\
         enNRPo-tbIDCCn I 16l87 _1 1 l/I K1,11,
the backing layer comprises cardboard; and the surface cleaning apparatus described above
where the surface cleaning apparatus additionally contains a release mechanism to eject the
releaseably attached pad.
 [0016]          A method of cleaning a surface with the pad described above is also described.
 including applying a surface cleaning liquid to the surface to be cleaned and passing the
 surface cleaning pad over the surface. The pad absorbs about 20 milliliters of liquid
 material in about 10 seconds with about 400gram-force of pressure on the pad. In some
 implementations, the absorbent core retains up to about 90% by volume of the liquid
 material absorbed. In some implementations, liquid material absorbed is substantially
 evenly distributed throughout the core. In some implementations, the core material absorbs
 up to about 7 to about 10 times its weight. In some implementations, the liner layer retains
 up to about 10% of the liquid material absorbed.
 [00171           A mobile robot is also described. In implementations, the robot includes a robot
 body defining a forward drive direction, a drive supporting the robot body to maneuver the
 robot across a floor surface, and a cleaning assembly disposed on the robot body. The
 cleaning assembly includes a pad holder configured to receive a cleaning pad having a
 center and lateral edges, and the pad holder comprises a release mechanism configured to
 eject the pad upon actuation of a release mechanism. The robot further includes a fluid
 applicator configured to apply fluid to the floor surface, wherein, and a controller circuit in
 communication with the drive and the cleaning assembly, the controller circuit controlling
 the drive and fluid applicator while executing a cleaning routine. The cleaning routine
 includes applying fluid to a floor surface area substantially equal to a footprint area of the
 robot, and returning the robot to the floor surface area in a movement pattern that moves
 the center and lateral edges of the cleaning pad separately through the floor surface area to
 moisten the entire surface area of the cleaning pad with the applied fluid.
 10018]           Additional implementations include the robot described above where the
 cleaning routine further comprises applying fluid to the floor surface at an initial
 volumetric flow rate to moisten the cleaning pad, the initial volumetric flow rate being
 relatively higher than a subsequent volumetric flow rate when the cleaning pad is

                                              -9
moistened. In one implementation, the first volumetric flow rate is set by spraying about
1mL of fluid every 1.5 feet initially for a period of time such as 1-3minutes, and the second
volumetric flow rate is set by spraying every 3 feet. wherein each spray of fluid is less than
lmL of volume. The fluid applicator applies fluid to a floor surface area in front of the
cleaning pad and in the forward drive direction of the mobile robot, and the fluid is applied
to a floor surface area previously occupied by the cleaning pad. In implementations, the
previously occupied floor surface area is stored on a map accessible to the controller
circuit. In implementations, fluid is applied to a floor surface area the robot has backed
away from by a distance of at least one robot footprint length immediately prior to
applying fluid so that the fluid is only applied to traversable floor and not to a wall, piece
of furniture. carpet or other non-floor area that triggers a bump sensor (collision) switch or
proximity sensor on the robot. In implementations, executing the cleaning routine further
comprises moving the cleaning pad in a birdsfoot motion forward and backward along a
center trajectory, forward and backward along a trajectory to a left side of and heading
away from a starting point along the center trajectory, and forward and backward along a
trajectory to a right side of and heading away from a starting point along the center
trajectory. The robot drive comprises right and left drive wheels disposed on corresponding
right and left portions of the robot body, and a center of gravity of the robot is positioned
forward of the drive wheels, causing a majority of an overall weight of the robot to be
positioned over the pad holder. Because the pad does not expand during fluid absorption,
the weight of the robot remains positioned over the pad holder throughout the cleaning
routine. The overall weight of the robot is distributed between the pad holder and the drive
wheels at a ratio of 3 to 1, and the overall weight of the robot without retaining any fluid is
between about I kg and about 1.5kg pounds and with retaining fluid is between about 1.5
kg to 4.5 kg. In implementations, the robot body and the pad holder both define
substantially rectangular foot prints. Additionally, in implementations, the robot further
includes a vibration motor disposed on a top portion of the pad holder. In some
implementations, the robot further includes a toggle button for actuating the pad holder
release mechanism and ejecting the pad. A backing layer on the pad engages with the pad
holder, and the pad holder comprises raised protrusions positioned for aligning to and
engaging with one or more shaped slots cut out of the backing layer along a peripheral

H  g lc mnNR1ctIl\ DC  I .G 15l d.-l
                                d    *21
                                       I6
                                                - 10
edge of the backing layer. In some implementations, the pad holder comprises raised
                                                                                            cut out
protrusions positioned for aligning to and engaging with one or more shaped slots
 of the backing layer at a location other than along a peripheral edge.
 [0019]          A mobile floor cleaning robot is also described including a robot body defining
 a forward drive direction, a drive supporting the robot body to maneuver the robot across a
 surface, the drive comprising right and left drive wheels disposed on corresponding right
 and left portions of the robot body. The robot includes a cleaning assembly disposed on
 the robot body, the cleaning assembly having a pad holder disposed forward of the drive
 wheels and having a top portion and a bottom portion, the bottom portion having a bottom
 surface arranged within between about 0.5 cm and about 1.5 cm of the surface and
 configured to receive a cleaning pad. The bottom surface of the pad holder includes at least
 40 percent of a surface area of a footprint of the robot, and the bottom surface having one
 or more raised protrusions extending therefrom for engaging with mating slots on a pad
 assembly. In implementations, the robot includes an orbital oscillator having less than I cm
 of orbital range disposed on the top portion of the pad holder. The pad holder is configured
 to permit more than 80 percent of the orbital range of the orbital oscillator to be
 transmitted from the top of the received cleaning pad to the bottom surface of the received
 cleaning pad. The one or more protrusions assist with aligning the pad to the pad holder
 and retaining the pad securely in place during oscillation of the orbital oscillation while the
 robot moves in a back and forth scrubbing cleaning pattern. In implementations, the pad
 holder includes a release mechanism configured to eject the pad from the bottom surface of
 the pad holder upon actuation of the release mechanism such that a user need not touch a
 used, dirty pad to dispose of it. Actuating the release mechanism while holding the robot
 above a trash container ejects the pad from the pad holder into the trash container
 therebeneath.
  [0020]          In some implementations, the orbital range of the orbital oscillator is less than
 0.5 cm during at least part of a cleaning run. Additionally, the robot drives forward and
 backward while oscillating the cleaning pad. In implementations, the robot drives in a
 birdsfoot motion to move the cleaning pad forward and backward along a center trajectory.
 forward and backward along a trajectory to a left side of and heading away from a starting

SgW  morn NiRPOIbID
               COWul w I do l11II:2.1
                                             - 11
point along the center trajectory, and forward and backward along a trajectory to a right
side of and heading away from a starting point along the center trajectory. The cleaning
pad has a top surface attached to the bottom surface of the pad holder and the top of the
pad is substantially immobile relative to the oscillating pad holder. In implementations, the
robot cleaning assembly further includes a reservoir to hold a volume of fluid and a fluid
applicator in fluid communication with the reservoir. The fluid applicator is configured to
apply the fluid along the forward drive direction forward of the pad holder. The cleaning
pad is configured to absorb about 90percent of the fluid volume held in the reservoir
without leaking onto the floor surface beneath the pad while receiving 1 pound of
downward force. The pad further includes a backing layer on the cleaning pad for engaging
with the pad holder and one or more raised protrusions on the bottom of the pad holder are
positioned for aligning to and engaging with shaped slots cut out of the backing layer. The
one or more protrusions assist with aligning the pad to the pad holder and retaining the pad
securely in place during oscillation of the orbital oscillation while the robot moves in a
back and forth scrubbing cleaning pattern. In implementations, the pad holder includes a
release mechanism configured to eject the pad from the bottom surface of the pad holder
upon actuation of the release mechanism such that a user need not touch a used. dirty pad
to dispose of it. Actuating the release mechanism while holding the robot above a trash
container ejects the pad from the pad holder into the trash container therebeneath.
100211       A method of operating a mobile floor cleaning robot is also described including
driving in a forward drive direction defined by the robot a first distance to a first location
while moving a cleaning pad carried by the robot along a floor surface supporting the
robot, the cleaning pad having a center and lateral edges; driving in a reverse drive
direction, opposite the forward drive direction. a second distance to a second location
while moving the cleaning pad along the floor surface; from the second location, applying
fluid to an area substantially equal to a footprint area of the robot on the floor surface in
the forward drive direction forward of the cleaning pad but rearward of the first location:
and returning the robot to the area in a movement pattern that moves the center and lateral
edges of the cleaning pad separately through the area to moisten the cleaning pad with the
applied fluid.

  p\Imeo em                       l 2l16
                             doM .11
                         6m5_I
                   IilINRPnbIDCC
                                              - 12
[00221       Additional embodiments include: the method described above further
comprising driving in a left drive direction or a right drive direction while driving through
the applied fluid in the alternating forward and reverse directions after spraying fluid on
the floor surface; the method described above where fluid on the floor surface comprises
 spraying fluid in multiple positions with respect to the forward drive direction: the method
 described above where the second distance is at least equal to a length of one footprint area
 of the robot ; the method described above where the mobile floor cleaning robot
 comprises: a robot body defining the forward drive direction and having a bottom portion.
 and a drive system supporting the robot body and configured to maneuver the robot over
 the floor surface.
 [00231       One aspect of the disclosure provides a mobile robot having a robot body, a
 drive system, and a cleaning assembly. The cleaning assembly includes a pad holder. a
 fluid applicator and a controller. The drive system supports the robot body to maneuver the
 robot across a floor surface. The cleaning assembly is disposed on the robot body and
 includes a pad holder, a fluid applicator and a controller in communication with the drive
 system and the cleaning system. The pad holder is configured to receive a cleaning pad
 having a center and lateral edges. The pad holder includes a release mechanism configured
 to eject the pad upon actuation of a release mechanism. The fluid applicator is configured
 to apply fluid to the floor surface. The controller controls the drive system and fluid
 applicator while executing a cleaning routine. The cleaning routine includes applying fluid
 to an area substantially equal to a footprint area of the robot, and returning the robot to the
 area in a movement pattern that moves the center and lateral edges of the cleaning pad
 separately through the area to moisten the cleaning pad with the applied fluid.
 [0024]       Implementations of the disclosure may include one or more of the following
 features. In some implementations, the cleaning routine further includes applying fluid to
 the surface at an initial volumetric flow rate to moisten the cleaning pad, the initial
 volumetric flow rate being relatively higher than a subsequent volumetric flow rate when
the cleaning pad is moistened. In one implementation. the first volumetric flow rate is set
 by spraying about ImL of fluid every 1.5 feet initially for a period of time such as 1-

I.  lg~ em eNRo   IbiDClG6X765 1doc'llIllI'
                                               - 13
                                                                                               each
 3minutes. and the second volumetric tlow rate is set by spraying every 3 feet. wherein
 spray of fluid is less than lmL of volume.
                                                                                in front of the
   100251       In some examples, the fluid applicator applies fluid to an area
   cleaning pad and in the direction of travel of the mobile robot. In some examples. the fluid
                                                                                              area
   is applied to an area the cleaning pad has occupied previously. In some examples, the
   the cleaning pad has occupied is recorded on a stored map that is accessible to the
   controller.
   [0026]       In some examples, the fluid applicator applies fluid to an area the robot has
   backed away from by a distance of at least one robot footprint length immediately prior to
   applying fluid. Executing the cleaning routine further comprises moving the cleaning pad
   in a birdsfoot motion forward and backward along a center trajectory, forward and
   backward along a trajectory to the left of and heading away from a starting point along the
   center trajectory, and forward and backward along a trajectory to the right of and heading
   away from a starting point along the center trajectory.
    [0027]      In some implementations, the drive system includes right and left drive wheels
   disposed on corresponding right and left portions of the robot body. A center of gravity of
   the robot is positioned forward of the drive wheels, causing a majority of an overall weight
   of the robot to be positioned over the pad holder. The overall weight of the robot 20 may
   be distributed between the pad holder and the drive wheels at a ratio of 3 to 1. In some
   examples, the overall weight of the robot is between about 2 lbs. and about 5 lbs.
    [00281      In some examples, the robot body and the pad holder both define substantially
   rectangular foot prints. Additionally or alternatively, the bottom surface of the pad holder
   may have a width of between about 60 millimeters and about 80 millimeters and a length
   of between about 180 millimeters and about 215 millimeters.
    [0029]      In some implementations, the robot includes a toggle button for actuating the
   pad holder release mechanism and ejecting the pad. In some implementations, the pad
   includes a backing layer for engaging with the pad holder and the pad holder comprises

lIIg~tntcmo enNRPortbD(CC1w                  I1
                            647 I I doc I 1 211
                                                     - 14
                                                                                          out of the
 raised protrusions positioned for aligning to and engaging with shaped slots cut
 backing layer.
  [00301            One aspect of the disclosure provides a mobile floor cleaning robot having a
 robot body, a drive, a cleaning assembly, a pad holder, and a controller circuit. The robot
                                                                                                  the
  body defines a forward drive direction. The drive supports the robot body to maneuver
  robot across a floor surface. The cleaning assembly is disposed on the robot body and
  includes a pad holder, a reservoir, and a sprayer. The pad holder has a bottom surface
  configured to receive a cleaning pad and arranged to engage the floor surface, and the
  bottom surface has one or more raised protrusions extending therefrom.
   [00311            The one or more protrusions assist with aligning the pad to the pad holder and
  retaining the pad securely in place during oscillation of the orbital oscillation while the
  robot moves in a back and forth scrubbing cleaning pattern. In implementations, the pad
  holder includes a release mechanism configured to eject the pad from the bottom surface of
  the pad holder upon actuation of the release mechanism such that a user need not touch a
  used, dirty pad to dispose of it. Actuating the release mechanism while holding the robot
  above a trash container ejects the pad from the pad holder into the trash container
  therebeneath.
   10032]            The reservoir is configured to hold a volume of fluid, and the sprayer, which is
  in fluid communication with the reservoir, is configured to spray the fluid along the
  forward drive direction forward of the pad holder. The controller circuit communicates
  with both the drive system and the cleaning system and executes a cleaning routine. The
  controller circuit executes a cleaning routine that allows the robot to drive in the forward
  drive direction a first distance to a first location and then drive in a reverse drive direction.
  opposite the forward drive direction, a second distance to a second location. The cleaning
  routine allows the robot to spray fluid on the floor surface from the second location, in the
  forward drive direction forward of the pad holder but rearward of the first location. In this
  manner, the robot only applies fluid to traversable floor and not to a wall, piece of
  furniture, carpet or other non-floor area that triggers a bump sensor (collision) switch or
  proximity sensor on the robot. After spraying fluid on the floor surface, the cleaning

Hgign~elemmc;NitI1oribiDCOGW   .1 I -doc\
                                     d.7 lll
                                                       - 15
                                                                                                while
routine allows the robot to drive in alternating forward and reverse drive directions
 smearing the cleaning pad along the floor surface.
 [0033]                Implementations of the disclosure may include one or more of the following
 features. In some implementations, the drive includes right and left drive wheels disposed
 on corresponding right and left portions of the robot body. A center of gravity of the robot
                                                                                               of the
 is positioned forward of the drive wheels, causing a majority of an overall weight
 robot to be positioned over the pad holder. The overall weight of the robot may be
 distributed between the pad holder and the drive wheels at a ratio of 3 to 1. In some
  examples, the overall weight of the robot is between about 2 lbs. and about 5 lbs (about I
  to 2.25 kg). The drive may include a drive body, which has forward and rearward portions,
  and right and left motors disposed on the drive body. The right and left drive wheels may
  be coupled to the corresponding right and left motors. The drive system may also include
  an arm that extends from the forward portion of the drive body. The arm is pivotally
  attachable to the robot body forward of the drive wheels to allow the drive wheels to move
  vertically with respect to the floor surface. The rearward portion of the drive body may
  define a slot sized to slidably receive a guide protrusion extending from the robot body.
  [0034]                In some examples, the robot body and the pad holder both define substantially
  rectangular foot prints. Additionally or alternatively, the bottom surface of the pad holder
  may have a width of between about 60 millimeters and about 80 millimeters and a length
  of between about 180 millimeters and about 215 millimeters.
  [0035]                The reservoir may hold a fluid volume of about 200 milliliters. Additionally or
  alternatively, the robot may include a vibration motor, or orbital oscillator, disposed on the
  top portion of the pad holder.
  [0036]                In some implementations, the robot includes a toggle button for actuating the
  pad holder release mechanism and ejecting the pad. In some implementations. the pad
  includes a backing layer for engaging with the pad holder and the pad holder comprises
  raised protrusions positioned for aligning to and engaging with shaped slots cut out of the
  backing layer.

                                             - 16
[00371      Another aspect of the disclosure provides a mobile floor cleaning robot that
includes a robot body, a drive, and a cleaning assembly. The robot body defines a forward
drive direction. The drive system supports the robot body to maneuver the robot across a
floor surface. The cleaning assembly is disposed on the robot body and includes a pad
holder and an orbital oscillator. The pad holder is disposed forward of the drive wheels and
has a top portion and a bottom portion. The bottom portion has a bottom surface arranged
within between about 0.5 cm and about 1.5 cm of the floor surface and receives a cleaning
pad. The bottom surface of the pad holder includes at least 40 percent of a surface area of a
footprint of the robot and has one or more raised protrusions extending therefrom. The
orbital oscillator is disposed on the top portion of the pad holder and has an orbital range
less than 1cm. The pad holder is configured to permit more than 80 percent of the orbital
range of the orbital oscillator to be transmitted from the top of the held cleaning pad to the
bottom surface of the held cleaning pad.
 [00381     In some examples, the orbital range of the orbital oscillator is less than '/2 cm
during at least part of a cleaning run. Additionally or alternatively, the robot may move the
cleaning pad forward or backward while the cleaning pad is oscillating.
 [0039]     The one or more protrusions assist with aligning the pad to the pad holder and
retaining the pad securely in place during oscillation of the orbital oscillation while the
robot moves in a back and forth scrubbing cleaning pattern. In implementations, the pad
holder includes a release mechanism configured to eject the pad from the bottom surface of
the pad holder upon actuation of the release mechanism such that a user need not touch a
used, dirty pad to dispose of it. Actuating the release mechanism while holding the robot
above a trash container ejects the pad from the pad holder into the trash container
therebeneath.
 [0040]     In some examples, the robot moves in a birdsfoot motion forward and backward
along a center trajectory, forward and backward along a trajectory to the left of and
heading away from a starting point along the center trajectory, and forward and backward
along a trajectory to the right of and heading away from a starting point along the center
trajectory.

                                             - 17
[0041]      In some examples, the cleaning pad has a top surface attached to the bottom
surface of the pad holder and the top of the pad is substantially immobile relative to the
oscillating pad holder.
100421      In some examples, the pad holder has a release mechanism configured to eject
the pad from the bottom surface of the pad holder upon actuation of a release mechanism.
In some examples, robot includes a toggle button for actuating the pad holder release
mechanism and ejecting the pad. In some examples, the pad includes a backing layer for
engaging with the pad holder and the pad holder comprises raised protrusions positioned
for aligning to and engaging with shaped slots cut out of the backing layer.
 [0043]      In some examples, the overall weight of the robot is distributed between the pad
holder and the drive wheels at a ratio of 3 to 1. The overall weight of the robot may be
between about 2 lbs. and about 5 lbs (about I to 2.25 kg).
 [00441      In some examples, the robot body and the pad holder both define substantially
rectangular foot prints. Additionally or alternatively, the bottom surface of the pad holder
may have a width of between about 60 millimeters and about 80 millimeters and a length
of between about 180 millimeters and about 215 millimeters.
 [0045]      The cleaning assembly may further include at least one post disposed on the top
portion of the pad holder sized for receipt by a corresponding aperture defined by the robot
body. The at least one post may have a cross sectional diameter varying in size along its
length. Additionally or alternatively, the at least one post may include a vibration
dampening material.
 [0046]      In some implementations, the cleaning assembly further includes a reservoir to
hold a volume of fluid, and a sprayer in fluid communication with the reservoir. The
sprayer is configured to spray the fluid along the forward drive direction forward of the
pad holder. The reservoir may hold a fluid volume of about 200 milliliters.
 [00471      The drive may include a drive body, which has forward and rearward portions,
and right and left motors disposed on the drive body. The right and left drive wheels are
coupled to the corresponding right and left motors. The drive may also include an arm that

   1
4r ueleoCNRPotbl\DCC~IIJ%37SLd5.oc'till1
                                                    - 18
                                                                                              to the
extends from the forward portion of the drive body. The arm is pivotally attachable
robot body forward of the drive wheels to allow the drive wheels to move vertically with
                                                                                         a slot sized
respect to the floor surface. The rearward portion of the drive body may define
to slidably receive a guide protrusion that extends from the robot body. In one
 implementation, the cleaning pad disposed on the bottom surface of the pad holder body
 absorbs about 90% of the fluid volume held in the reservoir. The cleaning pad has a
 thickness of between about 6.5 millimeters and about 8.5 millimeters. a width of between
 about 80 millimeters and about 68 millimeters. and a length of between about 200
 millimeters and about 212 millimeters.
  [0048]          In some examples, a method includes driving a first distance in a forward drive
 direction defined by the robot to a first location, while moving a cleaning pad carried by
 the robot along a floor surface supporting the robot. The cleaning pad has a center area and
 lateral areas flanking the center area. The method further includes driving in a reverse
 drive direction opposite the forward drive direction, a second distance to a second location
 while moving the cleaning pad along the floor surface In this manner. the robot only
 applies fluid to traversable floor and not to a wall, piece of furniture, carpet or other non
 floor area that triggers a bump sensor (collision) switch or proximity sensor on the robot.
 The method also includes applying fluid to an area on the floor surface substantially equal
 to a footprint area of the robot and forward of the cleaning pad but rearward of the first
 location. The method further includes returning the robot to the area of applied fluid in a
 movement pattern that moves the center and lateral portions of the cleaning pad separately
 through the area to moisten the cleaning pad with the applied fluid.
  [0049]          In some examples, the method includes driving in a left drive direction or a
 right drive direction while driving in the alternating forward and reverse directions after
  spraying fluid on the floor surface. Applying fluid on the floor surface may include
  spraying fluid in multiple directions with respect to the forward drive direction. In some
 examples, the second distance is at least equal to the length of a footprint area of the robot.
  [0050]          In still yet another aspect of the disclosure. a method of operating a mobile
  floor cleaning robot includes driving a first distance in a forward drive direction defined by

H+WpimemorcmNRPonbi>ODC\OGVW1(iV5_.dcol'-' I l
                                                 - 19
the robot to a first location while smearing a cleaning pad carried by the robot along a floor
 surface supporting the robot. The method includes driving in a reverse drive direction.
 opposite the forward drive direction, a second distance to a second location while smearing
 the cleaning pad along the floor surface. The method also includes spraying fluid on the
 floor surface in the forward drive direction forward of the cleaning pad but rearward of the
 first location. The method also includes driving in an alternating forward and reverse drive
 directions while smearing the cleaning pad along the floor surface after spraying fluid on
 the floor surface.
  [0051]          In some implementations, the method includes spraying fluid on the floor
 surface while driving in the reverse direction or after having driven in the reverse drive
 direction the second distance. In implementations, the he method includes driving in a left
 drive direction or a right drive direction while driving in the alternating forward and
 reverse directions after spraying fluid on the floor surface. Spraying fluid on the floor
  surface may include spraying fluid in multiple directions with respect to the forward drive
 direction. In some implementations, the second distance is greater than or equal to the first
 distance.
  [0052]         The mobile floor cleaning robot may include a robot body. a drive, a pad
 holder, a reservoir, and a sprayer. The robot body defines the forward drive direction and
 has a bottom portion. The drive system supports the robot body and maneuvers the robot
 over the floor surface. The pad holder is disposed on the bottom portion of the robot body
 and holds the cleaning pad. The pad holder has a release mechanism configured to eject the
 pad upon actuation, and the pad further comprising a backing layer for engaging with the
 pad holder. The pad holder has a bottom surface having raised protrusions extending
 therefrom and the raised protrusions are sized, shaped and positioned to align to and
 engage with slots cut out of the backing layer.
  [00531         The reservoir is housed by the robot body and holds a fluid (e.g., 200ml). The
  sprayer, which is also housed by the robot body, is in fluid communication with the
 reservoir and sprays the fluid in the forward drive direction forward of the cleaning pad.
 The cleaning pad disposed on the bottom portion of the pad holder may absorb about 90%

li gV.htcmoveNRPnflhDCCGWIl.  1do m l 16I
                                                    - 20
                                                                                                   of
 of the fluid contained in the reservoir. In some examples, the cleaning pad has a width
                                                                                                   200
 between about 80 millimeters and about 68 millimeters and a length of between about
 millimeters and about 212 millimeters. The cleaning pad may have a thickness of between
 about 6.5 millimeters and about 8.5 millimeters. The details of one or more
                                                                                          and the
  implementations of the disclosure are set forth in the accompanying drawings
  description below.
                                                                                               at least
  100541             In some implementations, the fluid applicator is a sprayer that includes
  two nozzles each distributing the fluid evenly across the floor surface in two strips of
  applied fluid. The two nozzles are each configured to spray the fluid at an angle and
  distance different than another nozzle. In some implementations, the two nozzles are
  vertically stacked in a recess in the fluid applicator and angled from horizontal and spaced
  apart from one another such that one nozzle sprays relatively longer lengths of fluid
  forward and downward to cover an area in front of the robot with a forward supply of
  applied fluid 173a, and the other nozzle sprays relatively shorter lengths fluid forward and
  downward to leave a rearward supply of applied fluid on an area in front of but closer to
  the robot than the area of applied fluid dispensed by the top nozzle.
   [00551            In implementations, the nozzle or nozzles dispense fluid in an area pattern that
  extends one robot width and at least one robot length in dimension. In some
  implementations, the top nozzle and bottom nozzle apply fluid in two distinct spaced apart
  strips of applied fluid that do not extend to the full width of the robot such that the pad
  passes through the outer edges of the strips of applied fluid in forward and backward
  angled scrubbing motions as described herein. In embodiments, the strips of applied fluid
  cover a width of 75-95% of the robot width and a combined length of the robot length. In
  implementations, the strips of applied fluid may be substantially rectangular shaped or
  ellipse shaped. In implementations, the nozzles complete each spray cycle by sucking in a
  small volume of fluid at the opening of the nozzle so that no fluid leaks from the nozzle
  following each instance of spraying.
   [00561            In some implementations, the pad includes a cardboard backing layer adhered
  to the top surface of the pad. The cardboard backing layer protrudes beyond the

HICCroro  R      IDCGG7i Id I lllai
                                               -21
                                                                              cardboard
longitudinal edges of the pad and the protruding longitudinal edges of the
backing layer attach to the pad holder of the robot. In one embodiment, the cardboard
backing layer is between 0.02 inch and 0.03 inch thick (0.05 cm and 0.762 cm thick).
between 68 and 72 mm wide and between 90-94mm long. In one embodiment. the
cardboard backing layer 85 is .026 inch thick, 70mm wide and 92mm long. In one
embodiment, the cardboard backing layer is coated on both sides with a water resistant
coating, such as wax or polymer or a combination of water resistant materials. such as
wax/polyvinyl alcohol/polyamine, and the cardboard backing layer does not disintegrate
when wetted.
 [0057]       In implementations, the pad is a disposable pad. In other examples, the pad is a
 reusable microfiber cloth pad having the same absorptive characteristics as those described
 herein with regard to embodiments. In examples having a washable, reusable microfiber
 cloth, the top surface of the cloth includes a secured stiff backing layer shaped and
 positioned like the cardboard backing layer described with regard to embodiments. The
 stiff backing layer is made of heat resistant, washable material that withstands being
 machine dried without melting or degrading the backing. The stiff backing layer is
 dimensioned and has cutouts as described herein for interchangeable use with the
 embodiment of the pad holder described with regard to embodiments herein.
 [0058]       In other examples, the pad is a disposable dry cloth and comprises a single layer
 of needle punched spunbond or spunlace material having exposed fibers for entrapping
 hair. The dry pad further comprises a chemical treatment that adds a tackiness
 characteristic to the pad for retaining dirt and debris. In one embodiment. the chemical
 treatment is a material such as that marketed under the trade name DRAKESOL.
 [0059]       In some examples, the pad is secured to an autonomous robot through a pad
 holder attached to the robot. A pad release mechanism adjusts to an up or pad-secure
 position. The pad release mechanism includes a retainer, or lip, that holds the pad securely
 in place by grasping protruding longitudinal edges of a cardboard backing layer secured to
 the top of the pad. In examples, the tip or end of the pad release mechanism includes a
 moveable retention clip and an eject protrusion that slides up through a slot or opening in

H1gn..Itc u',NRPortbiDCCGWIllW MI dct il 'I
                                                      - 22
                                                                              release the secured
the pad holder, and is pushed through the slot into a down position to
 pad by pushing down on the attached cardboard backing layer.
 10060]            Other aspects, features, and advantages will be apparent from the description
 and drawings, and from the claims.
                                            DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
 [00611            FIG. IA is an exploded view of an exemplary cleaning pad.
 [0062]             FIG. lB is an exploded view of the wrap layer of the exemplary cleaning pad of
 FIG. 1.
  [0063]            FIG IC is a section view of an exemplary cleaning pad.
  [00641            FIG ID is a section view of an exemplary cleaning pad where the airlaid layers
 include superabsorbent polymers.
  [0065]            FIG. 2A is a schematic view of an exemplary arrangement of operations for a
 spunlace process.
  [0066]            FIG. 2B is a perspective view of the hydroentaglement process for making the
 spunlace layer used in the exemplary cleaning pad.
  100671            FIG. 3 is a perspective view of a device for making the abrasive meltblown
 layer used in the exemplary cleaning pad.
  [00681            FIG. 4 is a perspective view of an autonomous mobile robot for cleaning using
 the exemplary cleaning pad.
  [0069]            FIG. 5 is a perspective view of a mop using the exemplary cleaning pad.
  [0070]            FIG. 6 is a bottom view of an exemplary cleaning pad.
  [0071]            FIG. 7 is a schematic view of an exemplary arrangement of operations for
 constructing a cleaning pad.

                                             - 23
100721      FIG. 8A is a perspective view of an exemplary cleaning pad.
                                                                                 pad of
[0073]       FIG. 8B is an exploded perspective view of the exemplary cleaning
FIG. 8A.
[00741       FIG. 8C is a top view of an exemplary cleaning pad.
 [0075]      FIG. 8D is a bottom view of an exemplary attachment mechanism for the pad as
described herein.
 [0076]      FIG. 8E is a side view of an exemplary attachment mechanism for a pad as
described herein in a secure position.
 [00771      FIG. 8F is a top view of an exemplary attachment holder for the pad as
 described herein.
 [0078]      FIG. 8G is a cut away side view of an exemplary attachment mechanism for the
 pad as described herein in a release position.
 100791      FIGS. 9A-9C are top views of an exemplary autonomous mobile robot as it
 sprays a floor surface with a fluid.
 100801      FIG. 9D is a top view of an exemplary autonomous mobile robot as it scrubs a
 floor surface.
 [00811      FIG. 9E is a bottom view of an exemplary cleaning pad.
 [00821      FIG. 9F is a top view of an exemplary autonomous mobile robot as it scrubs a
 floor surface.
 [0083]      FIG. 9G is a top view of an exemplary autonomous mobile robot as it scrubs a
 floor surface.
 [0084]      FIG. 10 is a schematic view of the robot controller of the exemplary
 autonomous mobile robot of FIG. 4.
 [0085]      Like reference symbols in the various drawings indicate like elements.

HIpu*cmo, ccMNRPortbtDCCt I 7 1 1d-1 I:11'2ol6
                                                       - 24
                                               DETAILED DESCRIPTION
10086]           Referring to FIGS. IA, lB andIC, in some implementations, a disposable
cleaning pad 100 includes a plurality of absorbent airlaid layers 101, 102, 103 stacked.
optionally bonded to one another, and enwrapped by an outer non-woven layer 105 which
can have an abrasive meltblown elements 106 disposed thereon. In some examples, the
cleaning pad 100 includes one or more airlaid layers 101, 102, 103. As shown, the
 cleaning pad 100 includes first, second and third airlaid layers 101, 102, 103, but
 additional airlaid layers are possible as well. The number of airlaid layers 101, 102, 103
 may depend on the amount of cleaning fluid 172 the cleaning pad 100 is required to
 absorb. Each airlaid layer 101, 102, 103 has a top surface 101a. 102a, 103a and a bottom
 surface 101b, 102b. 103b. The bottom surface 101b of the first (or top) airlaid layer 101 is
 disposed on the top surface 102a of the second airlaid layer 102, and the bottom
 surface 102b of the second airlaid layer 102 is disposed on the top surface 103a of the third
 (or bottom) airlaid layer 103. Fluid wicks between the three layers and is retained
 uniformly vertically throughout the stack of airlaid layers without leaking back onto a floor
 surface beneath the cleaning pad 100 while downward force is applied to the pad 100. In
 implementations, the pad 100 retains 90 percent of fluid applied to a floor surface 10 and
 under 1 pound of force, the pad 100 does not leak absorbed fluid back onto the floor
 surface 10. The surface tension the top and bottom surfaces of each airlaid layer helps
 retain wicked fluid within each layer such that as the top layer 101 fully saturates, no fluid
 will leak down to the middle airlaid layer 102 through the bottom surface 101b of the top
 airlaid layer 101, and as the middle airlaid layer 102 fully saturates, no fluid will leak
 down to the bottom layer through the bottom surface 102b of the middle (or second)
 layer 102.
 [00871           In implementations, the pad 100 soaks up 8-10 times its weight into a relatively
 rigid matrix of airlaid layers 101, 102, 103, and fluid absorption is achieved through
 capillary wicking, not by compress-release drawing because robot 400 to which the pad is
 attached exerts very light, low variability cycle weight, not a cycle of heavy human push
 down and draw back. Each of airlaid layer 101, 102, 103 slows down penetration of
 wicked fluid to the next adjacent airlaid layer 101, 102, 103, such that early cycles of fluid

H11P1e    NRon  DCCG I 9W76_ I doc-I 1lll 6
                                               - 25
application do not lead to the pay quickly sopping up all the fluid that is applied to the
floor surface. The vertical stack of airlaid layers 101, 102, 103 provides a resistance to
puddling at the bottom of the airlaid core comprising the three airlaid layers 101, 102, 103.
Each of the of airlaid layers 101, 102, 103 has its own puddle resisting bottom surface
   I01b, 102b, 103b for preventing puddling of absorbed fluid all the way down at the bottom
 of the bottom surface 103b of the bottom (or third) layer 103b.
 [0088]        In embodiments, the airlaid layers 101, 102, 103 are of non-uniform hardness or
 density in the vertically direction such the outer top and bottom surfaces are harder than
 the interior of each layer. In embodiments, the airlaid layers 101, 102, 103 are of non
 uniform surface density such that the outer top and bottom surfaces are smoother and less
 absorptive than the interior of each layer. By varying the surface density at the outer
 surfaces 101b, 102b, 103b of each of the airlaid layer 101, 102, 103, the airlaid layers 101,
  102, 103 remain absorptive, wicking fluid into each airlaid layer without leaking back
 through the bottom surfaces 101b, 102b, 103b. By incorporating three such airlaid
 layers 101, 102, 103 into the absorptive core of the pad 100. the pad 100 therefore has
 superior fluid retention properties over a pad having a single core of thickness equivalent
 to the three layer stacked core. The three airlaid layers 101, 102, 103 provide at least triple
 the amount of surface tension for retaining wicked fluid in the absorptive cores of each of
 the airlaid layers 101, 102, 103.
 [0089]        A wrap layer 104 wraps around the airlaid layers 101, 102, 103 and prevents the
 airlaid layers 101, 102, 103 from being exposed. The wrap layer 104 includes a wrap
 layer 105 (e.g., a spunlace layer) and an abrasive layer 106. The wrap layer 105 is
 wrapped around the first, second, and third airlaid layers 101, 102, 103. The wrap
 layer 105 has a top surface 105a and a bottom surface 105b. The top surface 105b of the
 wrap layer 105 covers the airlaid layers 101, 102, 103. The wrap layer 105 may be a
 flexible material having natural or artificial fibers (e.g., spunlace or spunbond). The
 abrasive layer 106 is disposed on the bottom side 105b of the wrap layer 105. Fluid
 applied to a floor 10 beneath the cleaning pad 100 transfers through the wrap layer 105 and
 into the airlaid layers 101, 102, 103. The wrap layer 105 wrapped around the airlaid layers
 101, 102, 103 is a transfer layer that prevents exposure of raw absorbent material in the

H W        .luten
        oeNRPorlh;DCC GW I1 7 45 I do- Illi 1
                                                  - 26
                                                                                     be suctioned
airlaid layers. If the wrap layer 105 were too absorbent, the pad 100 would
onto a floor 10 and difficult to move. A robot. for example, may be unable to overcome
                                                                                              10.
the suction force while trying to move the cleaning pad 100 across the floor surface
                                                                                             outer
 Additionally, the wrap layer 105 picks up dirt and debris loosened by the abrasion
                                                                                     10 that air dries
 layer 106 and may leave a thin sheen of a cleaning fluid 172 on the surface
 without leaving streak marks on the floor 10. The thin sheen of cleaning solution is
 between 1.5 and 3.5 ml/square meter and dries in a duration no longer than three minutes,
 and preferably dries within between about 2 minutes and 3 minutes.
                                                                                             as
  [00901           The disposable cleaning pad 100 relies on capillary action (also known
 wicking) to absorb fluid on a floor surface 10. Capillary action occurs when a liquid is
 able to flow in narrow spaces without external forces, such as gravity. Capillary action
 allows a fluid to move within spaces of a porous material due to forces of adhesion.
 cohesion. and surface tension. Adhesion of the fluid to the walls of a vessel will cause an
  upward force on the liquid edges and result in meniscus, which turns upwards. The surface
 tension acts to hold the surface intact. Capillary action occurs when the adhesion to the
  walls is stronger than the cohesive forces between the fluid molecules.
  [00911           In some examples, the airlaid layers 101, 102, 103 are a textile-like material
  made from fluff pulp, which is a type of wood pulp/chemical pulp made from long fiber
  softwoods. Chemical pulp is created by applying heat to a combination of wood chips and
  chemical materials in a large container to break down the lignin (organic substance that
  binds the cells in the wood). The textile-like material that is made from fluff pulp may be
  very bulky, porous, soft, and has good water absorption properties. The textile-like
  material does not scratch the floor surface, maintains its strength even when it is wet, and
  may be washed and reused.
  100921           Referring to FIG. ID, in some implementations, the airlaid layers 101, 102, 103
  include an absorbent layer of a mixture of air-laid paper and superabsorbent polymers 108
  (e.g., sodium polyacrylate) for wetness. Polymers include plastic and rubber materials,
  which are mainly organic compounds that are chemically based on carbon, hydrogen. and
  other nonmetallic elements. Polymers generally have larger molecular structures, which

             NRPonbl'DC(GW'I
  OhO~inien'CTe              0676$ doc 0ll/ll16
                                                 - 27
                                                                                               108
typically have low densities and may be extremely flexible. Superabsorbent polymers
                                                                                               to
(also known as slush powder) absorb and retain large amounts of a fluid in comparison
their own mass. The ability of the superabsorbent polymers 108 to absorb water depends
on the ionic concentration of the aqueous solution. A superabsorbent polymer 108 may
absorb up to 500 times its weight in deionized and distilled water (30-60 times its volume)
and may become 99.9% liquid. The absorbency of the superabsorbent polymers 108 drops
 significantly to about 50 times its weight when put into a 0.9% saline solution. The
 valence cations in the saline solution prevent the superabsorbent polymer 108 from
 bonding with the water molecules. The superabsorbent polymers 108 may expand causing
 the cleaning pad 100 to expand as well. Various implements 400, 500 may use the
 cleaning pad 100, and, in some examples, the implements 400, 500 may not support a
 cleaning pad 100 that may expand., For example, expansion of the pad 100 may disturb the
 physics of a compact, lightweight robot 400, causing the compact robot 400 to tilt upward
 and apply less force to the pad 100 for debris removal from the floor 10. Therefore. less
 superabsorbent polymers 108 may be used to meet a cleaning pad absorbency requirement.
 In one embodiment, the pad 100 may contain pockets in a middle section along the pad
 length that allow superabsorbent polymers to expand into those pockets and allow the pad
 to maintain a constant thickness as the superabsorbent polymers expand.
 [0093]            In some implementations, the airlaid layers 101, 102, 103 include a cellulose
 pulp nonwoven material that is through air bonded with a bicomponent fiber. In some
 examples. fibers of wood pulp cellulose are thermally bonded with bicomponent
 polyethylene, and/or polypropylene, which has a low melting point. This mixture forms a
 solid absorbent core that holds its formed shape and that evenly distributes absorbed fluid.
 preventing cleaning fluid from pooling at the lowest point in the layer and preventing
 additional fluid accumulation. The airlaid layers 101, 102, 103 may be manufactured from
 a bleached wood pulp that looks like a thick layer of cardboard. The pulp enters a hammer
 mill having blades on a rotor that strikes the thick layer of pulp and devibrates it into
 individual fibers. The individual fibers enter a distributor having a screen rotor that looks
 like a flour sifter. The fibers are formed into a sheet on another screen having an applied
 vacuum underneath, at which stage the sheet is blended with a sheet of bicomponent fiber.
 Blown hot air melts the bicomponent to bond with the airlaid.

   H          o
      IcmcruorcNR1 D(COW il%805_I docw- 1il
                                                   -28
100941           The airlaid layers are situated so as to distribute the absorbed liquid
                                                                                         in the
substantially uniformly throughout the core, without puddling of liquid anywhere
core layers (expand?). The mobile robot 400 sprays fluid 172 in front of the robot
uniformly and the pad 100 picks up the applied solution 173a, 173b in an even distribution
                                                                                              102.
along its length when traveling forward. In one embodiment. the airlayed layers 101,
103 are bonded with spray adhesive applied evenly over the surface of the airlaid layer
101, 102, 103. In one embodiment, the adhesive is polyolefin and is applied in a thin,
uniform manner to get reliable adhesion without creating ridges and stiff areas. The spray
adhesive also creates a uniformly bonded surface interface, allows fluid to wick into the
airlaid layers 101, 102, 103 without a large mechanical barrier (for example, stitches, or
relatively large impermeable glue patches or ridges) and this uniformly bonded surface
interface between airlaid layers 101, 102, 103 prevents puddling between the layers 101,
 102, 103.
 [0095]            A very small amount of acrylic latex bonding agent may be sprayed sparingly
on both the surfaces to bind the external layers and to minimize sloughing and help reduce
linting. Linting is a condition that occurs when fine ravelings of cotton, linen, or fiber are
apparent on an object or fabric. The airlaid layers 101, 102, 103 may include 15% of
biocomponent polymers, 85 % cellulose, and latex at the top to eliminate linting.
[00961             The wrap layer 105 may be of any material that is thin and absorbs fluid. In
addition, the wrap layer 105 may be smooth to prevent scratching the floor surface 10. In
some implementations, the cleaning pad 100 may include one or more of the following
cleaning agent constituents butoxypropanol, alkyl polyglycoside, dialkyl dimethyl
ammonium chloride, polyoxyethylene castor oil, linear alkylbenzene sulfonate, glycolic
acid - which for example serve as surfactants, and to attack scale and mineral deposits,
among other things; and including scent, antibacterial or antifungal preservatives.
10097]             In some examples, the wrap layer 105 is a spunlace nonwoven material.
Spunlace may also be known as hydroentangling, water entangling, jet entangling or
hydraulic needling. Spunlace is a process of entangling a web of loose fibers typically
formed by a card on a porous belt or moving perforated or patterned screen to form a sheet

                                        lNII
l.og~,hcn emCNRPOrtbIDCCOWmil1)4 __Itio
                                                - 29
                                                                              water jets. The
 structure by subjecting the fibers to multiple passes of fine high-pressure
                                                                        adding fibrous materials.
 hydroentangling process enables formation of specialty fabrics by
 such as tissue paper, airlaid, spunlace and spunbond nonwovens to composite non-woven
 webs. These materials offer performance advantages needed for many wipe applications
 due to their improved performance or cost structure.
   [0098]        Referring to FIGS. 2A and 2B, the spunlace process 200 includes a precursor
  web forming process 202a. The precursor web is usually made of staple textile-like fibers.
  These webs can be single fiber webs or made of many different fiber blends. The typical
  four fibers of choice are polyester, viscose, polypropylene and cotton. Variants of each of
  these fibers may also be used, such as organic cotton, as well as Lyocell material, and
  Tencel rayon. PLA (polylactic acid) fibers which are biodegradable can also be used.
   100991         The precursor web forming process 202a may include forming airlaid cards.
   which may be used to provide a more isotropic web as a result of higher transversal
   orientation of the fibers. Carding is a method of making thin webs of parallelized fibers.
   Higher bulk may also be obtained by using this type of carding system. Once the web of
   staple fibers is formed, a second layer of fibers may be placed on top of this base by air
   forming cellulose fibers, or by "laminating" a pre-formed nonwoven web, such as tissue,
   spunlace or spunbond. In some examples, spunbond isisnonwoven material is combined is
   combined with airlaid layers and thus the resulting fabric eliminates the carding step of
   hydroentangling continuous fibers with cellulose pulp fibers. This fibrous composition
   then goes under a fiber entangling process 204 constituted of rows of high-pressure water
  jets 210 that duplicate the conventional mechanical needling process and intertwine the
   fibers individually, so that they become entangled forming a web 212.
   [00100]        The spunlace process 200 includes applying a fiber entangling process 204 to
   the fibrous composition. The fiber entangling process 204 includes jetting water from
   rows of high-pressure water jets 210 to duplicate the conventional mechanical needling
   process and intertwine the fibers individually so that they become entangled. forming a
   web 212. The web 212 (after going through the web forming and carding process 202) is
   placed on a conveyor belt 214 rotated by two or more pulleys 216. During and/or after

H  %nimcruognNRVe l\DCC
                     G        dovl lm 16
                          (,16835l
                                                - 30
 each water injection process the web 212 goes through drums with suction 218 that suck
 the water out of the fiber and allow the fiber to keep moving to the next high-pressure
 water jets 210.
  [001011         The consolidated nonwoven substrate 215 is subsequently dried through air
 dryers in an air dryer process 206 and then wound in a winding process 208.
  [001021         The wrap layer 105 can be printed on as well as thermally embossed.
 Embossing and debosing are processes for creating raised or recessed designs in fabric or
  other material. A relatively lower melt fiber, such as polypropylene, may be used to
  achieve better thermal embossing. The coefficient of friction of the wrap layer 105 varies
  based on surface type and wetness. In on embodiment, a dry pad 100 moving on glass has
  a coefficient of friction of about 0.4 to about 0.5, and wet on tiles has a coefficient of
  friction of about 0.25 to about 0.4. The wrap layer 105 may include hydroembossing,
  which imparts three dimensional images on the fabric. Hydroembossing is generally less
  expensive than thermal bonding. In one example. the wrap layer 105 is embossed with a
  herringbone pattern. The wrap layer 105 wrapped around a series of airlaid layers 101.
  102, 103 enables the formation of an absorbent core that locks in absorbed fluid. The
  layering of airlaid core layers 101, 102, 103 enables capillary action and retention
  throughout the combined core and within each individual layer 101.102, 103.
  Furthermore, the airlaid layers 101, 102, 103 making up the core of the pad retain their
  shape while distributing fluid evenly throughout each fluid retention layer and preventing
  pooling that would prohibit additional absorption.
  [001031          The abrasion meltblown layer 106 includes meltblown fibers 107. which are
  fibers formed by extruding a molten thermoplastic material through a plurality of fine,
  usually circular, die capillaries as molten threads or filaments into converging high
  velocity gas streams that cut the filaments of molten thermoplastic material to reduce their
  diameters. Thus, the meltblown fibers 107 are carried by the high velocity gas stream and
  placed on a surface that collects the fibers, therefore forming a web of randomly
  distributed meltblown fibers 107.

H gelmemtvosciiNRPerlhI.DC l t I .do-II I NI
                                                   - 31
[001041             In some examples, the abrasion meltblown layer 106 is a layer of meltblown
fibers 107 that provide a rough surface. The meltblown fibers 107 are formed by a
meltblown process 300 (see FIG. 3) at high throughput, which creates spittle, or hair like
fibers, that are formed by a polymer drooled from the die orifices due to temperature and
other conditions in which it is run. The abrasive layer 106 is formed on top of the wrap
layer 105 (e.g., another meltblown layer, a spunbond layer, or a spunlace layer). The wrap
                                                                                               a
 layer 105 may be a herring bone hydroembossed nonwoven material, which is made of
ratio of viscose (rayon) fibers blended with polyester fibers. In some examples, the
 abrasion meltblown layer 106 has a basis weight (also known as grammage) equal to
 55g/m 2 (grams per square meter). The wrap layer 105 may have a basis weight of between
 about 30 gsm (grams per square meter) and about 65 gsm. In other examples, the wrap
 layer may have a basis weight of between about 35-40 gsm. Basis weight is a measurement
 used in both the fabric and paper industries to measure the mass of the product per unit of
 area. In an embodiment, the wrap layer 105 is a hydroentangled spunbond or spunlace
 material formed with indentations (not show) therein that allow fluid and suspended dirt to
 pass more directly through to the airlaid layers 101, 102, 103 and reduce the amount of
 cohesive suction between the wrap layer 105 and the floor surface 10 when the pad 100 is
 wet. In one embodiment, the indentations are in a herringbone pattern. In another
 embodiment, the indentations form a grid of squares sized and spaced to be between 0.50
 and 1.0 mm square and spaced apart in a grid formation by a length of 2.0-2.5 mm. In one
 embodiment, the indentations are sized and spaced to be 0.75mm square and spaced apart
 in a grid formation by a length of 2.25mm. In another embodiment, the wrap layer 105 is a
 spunbond or spunlace material having needle-punched holes therein for improving the
 wicking ability of the wrap layer 105 and decreasing the cohesion between the wet wrap
 layer 105 and the floor surface 10. The herringbone, square and needle punched
 indentations prevent a negative pressure from generating at the outside of the wrap layer as
 fluid evaporates and/or wicks from the back of the liner. Without free movement inside
 the wrap layer 105 or some texture on the wrap layer 105, fluid applied to the floor surface
 10 cannot replace the wicked fluid, and that causes suction between the pad 100 and the
 floor. Combining a low density spunbond or spunlace material of 35-40 gsm with a
 surface texture in the form of hydroembossed indentations, surface textures and patterns

                                I
IH'.,\Ihicrn o'cNR FonIDCCAVIGul% i75_I dnlidi n
                                                     - 32
 (such as herringbone), or needle punched indentations or holes prevents suction between
 the pad and the floor. The meltblown layer 105 further assists with preventing this this
 suction force.
  [00105]              Additionally, when a pad 100 is damp, not enough fluid is present to lubricate
 the interface between the bottom surface of the pad and the floor surface 10. A fully wetted
  pad 100 will ride on a layer of fluid while the robot 400 is moving, but as the damp pad
  100 slowly absorbs fluid, the not fully wet, not fully lubricated, wrap layer 106 will drag
  on the floor surface 10. In implementations, the spunbond or spunlace wrap layer 105 is
  manufactured with hydrophilic fibers that minimize the surface area of the pad 100
  exposed to air between the pad 100 and the floor surface 10. A wet pad 100 would stick to
  the hydrophilic floor surface 10 if the indentations or needle punches were not part of the
  wrap layer 100. Applying a surface texture to the spunbond or spunlace of the wrap layer
  105 breaks the surface tension that would otherwise case a wet pad 100 to stick to a wet
  floor surface 10.
  [00106]              The weight of the abrasion meltblown layer 106 is such that the abrasion
  meltblown layer 106 acts as an absorbing layer and allows for fluid to be absorbed through
  the meltblown layer 106 and be retained by the airlaid layer 101, 102, 103. In some
  examples, the meltblown layer 106 covers about 60 to about 70% of the surface area of the
  spunlace wrap layer 105 and in other examples, the meltblown layer 106 covers about 50
  60% of the surface area of a spunbond or spunlace wrap layer 105.
  [00107]              The meltblown fibers 107 may have different arrangements and configurations
  on the spunlace wrap layer 105. In some examples, the meltblown fibers 107 are randomly
  arranged on the wrap layer 105. The meltblown fibers 107 may be arranged in one or more
  sections 109a-e on a cleaning surface 109. The cleaning surface 109 is a bottom surface of
  the cleaning pad 100 that is in contact with the floor surface 10. The one or more sections
   109a-e on the cleaning surface 109 have a covered ratio between the meltblown abrasive
  fibers 107 and the wrap layer 105 greater than 50%. The meltblown layer provides the pad
  with the advantages of breaking surface tension that might otherwise cause the wet wrap
  layer to stick to a wet floor. By adding texture and topography to a floor facing surface of

I   \lhIlut ~cvedNR'orthIDCCOG
                     W l7695 Idco Ell6
                                                - 33
the pad, the meltblown layer prevents the pad from sticking or encountering high drag
forces. The meltblown layer also provides the pad with surface texture for roughing up dirt
and debris stuck or dried to a floor surface and loosening dirt and debris for absorption by
the airlaid inner core of the pad.
                                                                                          and
  100108]        As shown in FIG. 3, the meltblown process 300 is a process that extrudes
 draws molten polymer resins with a heated, high velocity air 310 to form fibers or
 filaments 107. The fibers/filaments 107 are cooled and are then formed into a web 106 on
 top of a moving screen 320. This process 300 is similar to spunbond, but the fibers 107
  generated here are much finer and range in the 0.1 to 20 pm (e.g., 0.1 - 5 Pm) diameter
  range. Meltblowing is also considered a spunmelt or spunlaid process. The process shown
  in FIG. 3 shows an extrusion die 312 (beam) that extrudes the melt blown polypropylene
  fibers into a continuous porous conveyor to form the nonwoven web 106. It is made up of
  six major components: the extruder, metering pump, extrusion die. web forming, web
  consolidation and winding. Other processes are possible as well.
  [00109]        There are two basic die designs 312 used with the meltblown technology, the
  single row die and the multi-row die. The key difference between these two designs is the
  amount of air that is used as well as the throughput of the die. With the multi-row die,
  much greater throughput may be achieved. Multi-row dies usually have two to eighteen
  rows of holes and approximately three hundred holes per inch, while the conventional
  single row dies have twenty-five to thirty-five holes per inch. Either die design 312 may
  be used to form the meltblown fibers 107. Throughput for this process is much less than
  the 200+ kg/hr/meter (kilograms per hour per meter) obtained for spunbond or spunlace
  with its much larger fiber diameters. Conventional dies basically can extrude 70 to 90
  kg/hr/meter, while the multi-row die can achieve about 160kg/hr/meter.
  [00110]        In some implementations, the meltblown fibers 107 have a diameter of between
  about 0.1 pm and about 5 jim with a mean of about 2.5 pm. Throughput and air flows
  have the greatest impact at reducing the fiber diameter, with melt and air temperatures and
  distance of the die from the forming table have less of an impact. Optimizing the process
  variables and using metallocene polypropylene may yield meltblown webs with mean fiber

                              119r765 1do-I l,2I/ 216
H.\4Alemcn' n\cRNRPorthl\DCC\GW
                                                      - 34
diameters in the range of 0.3 to 0.5 Im with maximum fiber diameters of less than 3pm. A
                                                                                      against fluid
wrap layer 104 with meltblown fibers 107 of this size can provide a barrier
 leakage from the cleaning pad 100 by providing very high hydrohead webs with excellent
 breathability. The meltblown fibers 107 may be created using homopolymer
                                                                                          process as
 polypropylene; however, several other resins can be extruded by the meltblown
 well, such as polyethylene, polyester, polyamides and polyvinyl alcohols. In some
 implementations, the meltblown layer 106 is formed from polylactic acids (PLA), a
 biodegradable nonwoven.
  [00111]            In some examples, the airlaid layers 101, 102, 103, the abrasion layer 104 and
 the wrap layer 104 (i.e., the cleaning pad 100) have a combined width WT of between
 about 68 millimeters and about 80 millimeters and a combined length (not shown) of
 between about 200 millimeters and about 212 millimeters. In some examples, the cleaning
 pad 100 including the airlaid layers 101, 102, 103, the abrasion layer 104 and the wrap
 layer 105 have a combined thickness TT of between 6.5 millimeters and about 8.5
 millimeters. Additionally, or alternatively, the airlaid layers 101, 102, 103 have a
 combined airlaid width (WAI + WA2 + WA) of between 69 millimeters and about 75
 millimeters and a combined airlaid length (LAI + LA2  LA) of between about 165
 millimeters and about 171 millimeters. The cleaning pad 100 withstands pressure being
 applied to it by an implement 400, 500 (e.g., robot or mop), since an implement 400, 500
 will cause back and forth movement of the cleaning pad 100 mimicking a scrubbing action
 as the robot 400 traverses the floor surface 10.
  [00112]            In some implementations, as the cleaning pad 100 is cleaning a floor surface 10.
 it absorbs cleaning fluids 172 applied to the floor surface 10. The cleaning pad 100 may
 absorb enough fluid without changing its shape. Therefore, where the cleaning pad 100 is
 used along with a cleaning robot 400, the cleaning pad 100 has substantially similar
 dimensions before cleaning the floor surface 10 and after cleaning the floor surface 10.
 The cleaning pad 100 may increase in volume when it absorbs fluids. In some examples,
 the thickness of the cleaning pad TT increases by less than 30% after fluid absorption.

Hg   r    NPoribhWDCCGwlP '6S1 docs-II Ml2
                                                       - 35
 [00113]        In some implementations, the wrap layer 104 has the specifications listed in
Table 1 below:
                                                      Table I
                                                   Wrap Layer
     Characteristic                        Unit                  Tolerance        Test Method
                                                       Value
        Weight                             g/m2           55       +/- 10%      ASTM D3776M
                                                                                      09A
       Thickness                           mm            0.6      0.55-0.65       WSP 120.6
                                N/2.54cm (MD)             50         > 40
   Tensile Strength
                                                                                ASTM D5034-09
         (DRY)                   N/2.54cm (CD)            25         > 20
     Elongation at                      %(MD)             45       25-65
                                                                                ASTM D5034-09
     break (DRY)                        % (CD)            90      65 - 115
   Water absorption                         %            600   > 500             WSP 10.0 (05)
        Abrasion                     Visual at 80              No       visible
                                                         OK
       resistance                        cycles                degradation
                                                Meltblown Abrasive
   Covered surface
                                            %             50       44-57
           ratio
    Scrubbing fiber
                                             m           N/A    8pm - 20pm
      average size

ll <gnhierw or iNbI DC OGW
                         I1 7r,1docell>16
                                                  -36
                                                                              tests from the
 [00114]          ASTM D3776M-09A and ASTM D5034-09 are standardized
 American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM). ASTM D3776M-09A covers the
 measurement of fabric mass per unit area (weight) and is applicable to most fabrics.
 ASTM D5034-09, also known as the Grab test, is a standard test method for breaking
   strength and elongation of textile fabrics. WSP 120.6 and WSP 10.0 (05) are standardized
 tests created by World Strategic Partners for testing the properties of nonwoven fabrics.
   [001151         Referring to FIGS. 1A-ID ,3, 4-6 and 9A-9C, the cleaning pad 100 is
   configured to scrub a floor surface 10 and absorb fluids on the floor surface 10. In some
   examples, the cleaning pad 100 is attached to a cleaning implement such as a mobile robot
   400 or a handheld mop 500. The cleaning implement 400, 500 may include a sprayer 462,
   512 that sprays a cleaning fluid 172 on the floor surface 10. The implement 400, 500 is
   used to scrub and remove any smears (e.g., dirt, oil, food, sauces, coffee. coffee grounds)
   that are being absorbed by the pad 100 along with the applied fluid 172 that dissovies
   and/or loosens the smears 22. Some of the smears may have viscoelastic properties, which
   exhibit both viscous and elastic characteristic (e.g., honey). The cleaning pad 100 is
   absorbent and has an outer surface 105a that includes a randomly applied abrasive layer
   106 comprising meltblown fibers 107. As the implement 400, 500 moves about the floor
   surface 10, the cleaning pad 100 wipes the floor surface 10 with the abrasive side 105b
   containing the abrasive layer 106b of meltblown fibers and absorbs cleaning solution
   sprayed onto the floor surface 10 with only a light amount of force than otherwise required
   by scrubbing mops having a non-abrasive cleaning element.
   [001161         Referring to FIG. 4, in some implementations, the implement 400 is a compact,
   lightweight autonomous mobile robot 400 that weighs less than 51bs and navigates and
   cleans a floor surface 10. The mobile robot 400 may include a body 410 supported by a
   drive system (not shown) that can maneuver the robot 400 across the floor surface 10
   based on a drive command having x, y, and 0 components, for example. As shown, the
   robot body 410 has a square shape. However, the body 410 may have other shapes.
   including but not limited to a circular shape, an oval shape. a tear drop shape, a rectangular
   shape, a combination of a square or rectangular front and a circular back, or a
   longitudinally asymmetrical combination of any of these shapes. The robot body 410 has a

l     ialcnn oiNRPanbl'DC            _
                          GW'il %)8763 do-1l H l116
                                                     -37
 forward portion 412 and a rearward portion 414. The body 410 also includes a bottom
  portion (not shown) and a top portion 418. The bottom portion of the robot body 410
  further comprises one or more rear cliff sensors (not shown) in one or both of the two rear
  corners of the robot 400 and one or more forward cliff sensors located in one or both of the
  front corners of the mobile robot 400 for preventing falls from ledged surfaces. In
  embodiments, the cliff sensors may be mechanical drop sensors or light based proximity
  sensors, such as an IR (infrared) pair, a dual emitter, single receiver or dual receiver, single
  emitter IR light based proximity sensor aimed downward at a floor surface 10. In some
  examples, the one or more forward cliff sensors and one or more rear cliff sensors are
  placed at an angle relative to the forward and rear corners, respectively, such that they cut
  the corners, spanning between sidewalls of the robot 400 and covering the corner as
  closely as possible to detect flooring height changes beyond a threshold accommodated by
  reversible robot wheel drop prior. Placing the cliff sensors proximate the corners of the
  robot 400 ensures that they will trigger immediately when the robot 400 overhangs a
   flooring drop and prevent the robot wheels from advancing over the drop edge.
   [00117]             In some implementations, the forward portion 412 of the body 410 carries a
  movable bumper 430 for detecting collisions in longitudinal (AF) or lateral (L.R)
   directions. The bumper 430 has a shape complementing the robot body 410 and extends
   forward the robot body 410 making the overall dimension of the forward portion 412 wider
  than the rearward portion 414 of the robot body 410 (the robot as shown has a square
   shape). The bottom portion of the robot body 410 supports the cleaning pad 100. In
   embodiments, the pad 100 extends beyond the width of the bumper 430 such that the robot
  400 can position an outer edge of the pad 100 up to and along a tough to reach surface or
   into a crevice, such a wall floor interface, and such that the surface or crevice is cleaned by
  the extended edge of the pad 100 the while the robot 400 moves in a wall following
   motion. The embodiment of a pad 100 extending beyond the width of the bumper 430
   enables the robot 400 to clean in cracks and crevices beyond the reach of the robot body
  410. In embodiments, such as those shown in FIGS. IA-ID and FIGS. 8A-8C and 9E, the
  pad 100 has bluntly cut ends I00d such that the airlaid layers 101, 102, 103 are exposed at
  both ends l00d of the pad 100. Instead of the wrap layer 105 being sealed at the ends I00d
  of the pad 100 and compressing the ends I00d of the airlaid layers 101, 102. 103, the full

H   %\$jIno ,cNRjofnb\DCCCWi% Il do 1I 112.116
                                                  - 38
length of the pad 100 is available for fluid absorption and cleaning. No portion of the
 airlaid core is compressed by the wrap layer 105 and therefore unable to absorb fluid 172.
 Additionally, a used disposable pad 100 of this embodiment will not have soaking wet.
 floppy ends of sealed wrap layer 105 at the completion of a cleaning run. All fluid 172 will
 be securely absorbed and held by the airlaid core, preventing any drips and preventing a
 user from undesirably contacting dirty wet ends of the pad 100.
  [001181             As shown in FIGS. 4 and 9A-9G, the robot 400 may drive back and forth to
 cover a specific portion of the floor surface 10. As the robot 400 drives back and forth, it
 cleans the area it is traversing and therefore provides a deep scrub to the floor surface 10.
 A reservoir 475 housed by the robot body 410 holds a cleaning fluid 172 (i.e. cleaning
 solution) and may hold 170-230 mL of fluid. In embodiments, the reservoir 475 holds
 200mL of fluid. The robot 400 may include a fluid applicator 462 connected to the
 reservoir 475 by a tube. The fluid applicator 462 may be a sprayer having at least one
 nozzle 464 that distributes fluid over the floor surface 10. The fluid applicator 462 may
 have multiple nozzles 464 each configured to spray the fluid at an angle and distance
 different than another nozzle 464. In some examples, the robot 400 includes two nozzles
 464, vertically stacked in a recess in the fluid applicator 462 and angled and spaced such
 that one nozzle 464a sprays relatively longer lengths of fluid 172a forward and downward
 to cover an area in front of the robot 400 with a a forward supply of applied fluid 173a and
 the other nozzle 464b sprays relatively shorter lengths fluid 172b forward and downward
 to leave a rearward supply of applied fluid 173b on an area in front of but closer to the
 robot 400 than the area of applied fluid 173a dispensed by the top nozzle 464a. In
 embodiments, the nozzle 464 or nozzles 464a, 464b dispense fluid 172, 172a, 172b in an
 area pattern that extends one robot width WR and at least one robot length LR in dimension.
  In some embodiments, the top nozzle 464a and bottom nozzle 464b apply fluid 172a, 172b
  in two distinct spaced apart strips of applied fluid 173a, 173b that do not extend to the full
 width WR of the robot 400 such that the pad 100 passes through the outer edges of the
  strips of applied fluid 173a, 173b in forward and backward angled scrubbing motions as
 described herein. In embodiments, the strips of applied fluid 173a, 173b cover a width Ws
 of 75-95% of the robot width WR and a combined length Ls of 75-95% of the robot

       1g lteroc c1NRPortb
                      1    Il 9DC
                                7 .9763
                                     1 1 l l1116
                                                  - 39
                                                                          traversed areas of the
length Lg. In some implementations, the robot 400 only sprays on
floor surface 10.
                                                                                    down stains on
100119]            Moreover, the back and forth movement of the robot 400 breaks
the surface floor 10. The broken down stains are then absorbed by the cleaning pad 100.
In some examples, the cleaning pad 100 picks up enough of the sprayed fluid to avoid
uneven streaks if the cleaning pad 100 picks up too much liquid, e.g fluid 172. In case of
too little fluid absorption, the robot 400 might leave fluid and wheel traces. In some
 embodiments, the cleaning pad 100 leaves a residue of the fluid, which could be water or
 some other cleaning agent including solutions containing cleansing agents, to provide a
 visible sheen on the surface floor 10 being scrubbed. In some examples, the fluid contains
 antibacterial solution, e.g., an alcohol containing solution. A thin layer of residue,
 therefore, is purposely not absorbed by the cleaning pad 100 to allow the fluid to kill a
 higher percentage of germs. Therefore, the cleaning pad 100 does not swell or expand and
 provides a minimal increase in total pad thickness T-r This characteristic of the cleaning
 pad 100 prevents the robot 400 from tilting backwards or pitching up if the cleaning
 pad 100 expands. The cleaning pad 100 is sufficiently rigid to support the front of the
 robot. In some examples, the cleaning pad 100 absorbs up to 180 ml or 90% of the total
 fluid contained in the robot reservoir 475. In some examples, the cleaning pad holds
 about 55 to about 60 ml of fluid and a fully saturated wrap layer holds about 6 to about 8
 ml of fluid 172. In some examples the ratio of fluid retention in the airlaid core
 101,102,103 to the outer wrap layer 105 is about 9:1 to about 5:1.
 [00120]            The pad 100 and robot 400 are sized and shaped such that the transfer of fluid
 from the reservoir to the absorptive pad 100 maintains the forward and aft balance of the
 less than 51b robot 400 during dynamic motion. The fluid distribution is designed so that
 the robot 400 continually propels the pad 100 over a floor surface 10 without the
 interference of the increasingly saturated pad 100 and decreasingly occupied fluid reservoir
 475 lifting the back 414 of the robot 400 and pitching the front 412 of the robot 400
 downward and thereby applying movement-prohibitive downward force to the robot 400.
 The robot 400 is able to move the pad 100 across the floor surface 10 even when the pad
 100 is fully saturated with fluid. The robot 400 however includes the feature of tracking the

                       tW
        .ic;.NRP.ofIDC(nbi 11W I1. d-   hi
                                      11,
                                                - 40
amount of floor surface 10 travelled and/or the amount of fluid remaining in the
reservoir 475 and provides an audible and/or visible alert to a user that the pad 100
requires replacement and/or the reservoir 475 requires refilling. In embodiments, the
robot 400 stops moving and remains in place on the floor surface if the pad 100 is fully
saturated, and there remains floor to be cleaned once the pad 100 is replaced.
 [00121]          FIGS. 9A through 9G detail the spraying, pad wetting, and scrubbing motions
 of one embodiment of the mobile robot 400. In some implementations, the robot 400 only
 applies fluid 172 to areas of the floor surface 10 that the robot 100 has already traversed. In
 one example, the fluid applicator 462 has multiple nozzles 464a, 464b each configured to
 spray the fluid 172a, 172b in a direction different than another nozzle 464a. 164b. The
 fluid applicator 462 may apply fluid 172 downward rather than outward, dripping or
 spraying fluid 172 directly in front of the robot 100. In some examples, the fluid
 applicator 462 is a microfiber cloth or strip, a fluid dispersion brush, or a sprayer.
 [00122]          Referring to FIGS. 9A-9D and 9F-9G. in some implementations, the robot 400
 may execute a cleaning behavior by moving in a forward direction F toward an
 obstacle 20, followed by moving in a backward or reverse direction A. As indicated in
 FIGS. 9A and 9B, the robot 400 may drive in a forward drive direction a first distance Fd
 to a first location Li. As the robot 400 moves backwards a second distance Ad to a second
 location L2, the nozzles 464a. 464b simultaneously spray longer lengths fluid 172a and
 shorter lengths of fluid 172b onto the floor surface 10 in a forward and/or downward
 direction in front of the robot 400 after the robot 400 has moved at least a distance D
 across an area of the floor surface 10 that was already traversed in the forward drive
 direction F. In one example, the fluid 172 is applied to an area substantially equal to or less
 than the area footprint AF of the robot 400. Because distance D is the distance spanning at
 least the length LR of the robot 400, the robot 400 determines that the area of floor 10
 traverses is clear floor surface 10 unoccupied by furniture. walls 20, cliffs, carpets or other
 surfaces or obstacles onto which cleaning fluid 172 would be applied if the robot 100 had
 not already verified the presence of a clear floor surface 10 for receiving cleaning
 fluid 172. By moving in a forward direction F and then backing up prior to applying

.Igimern cNPoribDTCCW 1Ie 7(l d-     ll hl
                                 I Id'c
                                               -41
cleaning fluid 172, the robot 400 identifies boundaries, such as a flooring changes and
walls, and prevents fluid damage to those items.
 [00123]         As shown in FIGS. 4, 9B and 9C, in some examples, the fluid applicator 462 is
 a sprayer 462 that includes at least two nozzles 464a, 464b, each distributing the fluid 172
 evenly across the floor surface 10 in two strips of applied fluid 173a, 173b. The two
 nozzles 464a, 464b are each configured to spray the fluid at an angle and distance different
 than another nozzle 464a, 464b. In some examples, the two nozzles 464a, 464b are
 vertically stacked in a recess in the fluid applicator 462 and angled from horizontal and
 spaced apart from one another such that one nozzle 464a sprays relatively longer lengths of
 fluid 172a forward and downward to cover an area in front of the robot 400 with a forward
 supply of applied fluid 173a, and the other nozzle 464b sprays relatively shorter lengths
 fluid 172b forward and downward to leave a rearward supply of applied fluid 173b on an
 area in front of but closer to the robot 400 than the area of applied fluid 173a dispensed by
 the top nozzle 464a. In embodiments, the nozzle 464 or nozzles 464a, 464b dispense
 fluid 172, 172a, 172b in an area pattern that extends one robot width WZ and at least one
 robot length LR in dimension. In some embodiments, the top nozzle 464a and bottom
 nozzle 464b apply fluid 172a, 172b in two distinct spaced apart strips of applied
 fluid 173a, 173b that do not extend to the full width W of the robot 400 such that the
 pad 100 passes through the outer edges of the strips of applied fluid 173a, 173b in forward
 and backward angled scrubbing motions as described herein. In embodiments, the strips of
 applied fluid 173a, 173b cover a width Ws of 75-95% of the robot width WR and a
 combined length Ls of 75-95% of the robot length LR. In embodiments, the strips of
 applied fluid 173a, 173b may be substantially rectangular shaped or ellipse shaped. In
 embodiments, the nozzles 464a, 464b complete each spray cycle by sucking in a small
 volume of fluid at the opening of the nozzle so that no fluid 172 leaks from the nozzle
 following each instance of spraying.
 [00124]         Referring to FIGS. 9D, 9F and 9G, in some examples, the robot 400 may drive
 back and forth to cover a specific portion of the floor surface 10, wetting the cleaning
 pad 100 at the start of a cleaning run and/or scrubbing the floor surface 10. The robot 400
 drives back and forth, cleaning the area traverse and therefore providing a thorough scrub

H gn iteroscNRPonbhlDCCGW\I 1676 l Idc-11 II (l
                                                    - 42
to the floor surface 10. The robot 400 oscillates the attached pad 100 in an orbit
of 12-15mm to scrub the floor 10 and applies 1 pound of downward pushing force or less
to the pad.
 [00125]             In some examples, the fluid applicator 462 applies fluid 172 to an area in front
 of the cleaning pad 100 and in the direction of travel (e.g., forward direction F) of the
 mobile robot 100. In some examples, the fluid 172 is applied to an area the cleaning
 pad 100 has previously occupied. In some examples. the area the cleaning pad 100 has
 occupied is recorded on a stored map that is accessible to a robot controller 150. as shown
 in the diagram of FIG. 10. The robot 400 may include a cleaning system 1060 for cleaning
 or treating a floor surface 10.
 [001261             In some examples, the robot 400 knows where it has been based on storing its
 coverage locations on a map stored on the non-transitory-memory 1054 of the robot 400 or
 on an external storage medium accessible by the robot 400 through wired or wireless
 means during a cleaning run. The robot 400 sensors 5010 may include a camera and/or one
 or more ranging lasers for building a map of a space. In some examples, the robot
 controller 1050 uses the map of walls, furniture, flooring changes and other obstacles 10 to
 position and pose the robot 400 at locations far enough away from obstacles and/or
 flooring changes prior to the application of cleaning fluid 172. This has the advantage of
 applying fluid 172 to areas of floor surface 10 having no known obstacles thereon.
 [00127]             In some examples, the robot 100 moves in a back and forth motion to moisten
 the cleaning pad 100 and/or scrub the floor surface 10 to which fluid 172 has been applied.
 The robot 400 may move in a birdsfoot pattern through the footprint area AF on the floor
 surface 10 to which fluid 172 has been applied. As depicted. in some implementations. the
 birdsfoot cleaning routine involves moving the robot 100 in forward direction F and a
 backward or reverse direction A along a center trajectory 1000 and in forward direction F
 and a backward direction A along left 1010 and right 1005 trajectories. In some examples.
 the left trajectory 1010 and the right trajectory 1005 are arcuate trajectories that extend
 outward in an arc from a starting point along the center trajectory 1000. The left

H        moCNR'nbDCCG. I I I 17t,1 I .d.c-i l 1
   tpil.hte                                     1
                                                  - 43
trajectory 1010 and the right trajectory 1005 may be straight line trajectories that extend
 outward in a straight line from the center trajectory 1000.
 [00128]          FIGS. 9D and 9F depict two birdsfoot trajectories. In the example of FIG. 9D,
 the robot 400 moves in a forward direction F from Position A along the center
 trajectory 1000 until it encounters a wall 20 and triggers a sensor 5010, such as a bump
 sensor, at Position B. The robot 400 then moves in a backward direction A along the center
 trajectory to a distance equal to or greater than the distance to be covered by fluid
 application. For example, the robot 400 moves backward along the center trajectory 1000
 by at least one robot length I to Position G, which may be the same position as Position A.
 The robot 400 applies fluid 172 to an area substantially equal to or less than the footprint
 area AF of the robot 100 and returns to the wall 20, the cleaning pad 400 passing through
 the fluid 172 and cleaning the floor surface 10. From position B, the robot 100 retracts
 either along a left trajectory 1010 or a right trajectory 1005 before returning to Position B
 and covering the remaining trajectory. Each time the robot 400 moves forward and
 backward along the center trajectory 1000, left trajectory 1010 and right trajectory 1005.
 the cleaning pad 100 passes through the applied fluid 172, scrubbing dirt, debris and other
 particulate matter from the floor surface 10 to which the fluid 172 is applied and absorbing
 the dirty fluid into the cleaning pad 100 and away from the floor surface 10. The scrubbing
 motion of the moistened pad combined with the solvent characteristics of the cleaning
  fluid 172 breaks down and loosens dried stains and dirt. The cleaning fluid 172 applied by
 the robot 400 suspends loosened debris such that the cleaning pad 100 absorbs the
  suspended debris and wicks it away from the floor surface 10.
  [00129]         In the example of FIG. 9F, the robot 400 similarly moves from a starting
  position, Position A, through applied fluid 172, along a center trajectory 1000 to a wall
 position, Position B. The robot 400 backs off of the wall 20 along the center
 trajectory 1000 to Position C, which may be the same position as Position A. before
 covering left and right trajectories 1010, 1005, extending to positions D and F, with the
 cleaning fluid 172 distributed along the trajectories 1010, 1005 by the cleaning pad 100. In
 one example, each time the robot 400 extends along a trajectory outward from the center
 trajectory 1000, the robot 400 returns to a position along the center trajectory as indicated

HI g .lniemocwtNRPribIDC(OW,I Il'71 d0- II NW,
                                                    - 44
 by Positions A, C, E and G, as depicted in FIG. 9F. In some implementations, the
 robot 400 may vary the sequence of backward direction A movements and forward
 direction F movements along one or more distinct trajectories to move the cleaning pad
  100 and cleaning fluid 172 in an effective and efficient coverage pattern across the floor
 surface.
  [00130]           In some examples, the robot 100 may move in a birdsfoot coverage pattern to
 moisten all portions of the cleaning pad 100 upon starting a cleaning run. As depicted in
 FIG. 9E, the'bottom surface 100b of the cleaning pad 100 has a center area PC and right
  and left lateral edge areas PR and PL. When the robot 100 starts a cleaning run, or cleaning
  routine, the cleaning pad 100 is dry and needs to be moistened to reduce friction and also
  to spread cleaning fluid 172 along the floor surface 10 to scrub debris therefrom.
  [001311            The robot 400 therefore applies fluid at a higher volumetric flow rate initially at
  the start of a cleaning run such that the cleaning pad 100 is readily moistened. In one
  implementation, the first volumetric flow rate is set by spraying about ImL of fluid
  every 1.5 feet initially for a period of time such as 1-3minutes. and the second volumetric
  flow rate is set by spraying every 3 feet, wherein each spray of fluid is less than 1mL of
  volume. In embodiments. the robot 400 applies fluid 172 every one to two feet at the start
  of a run to saturate the wrap layer 105 of the pad 100 early in the cleaning run. After a
  period of time and/or distance, such as a duration of 2-10 minutes, the robot 400 applies
  fluid at intervals of every three to five feet because the pad 100 is moistened and able to
  scrub the floor 10. As FIG. 9G depicts, in some examples, at the start of a cleaning run, the
  robot 400 drives the cleaning pad 100 through applied fluid 172 such that the center area
  PC of the bottom surface 100b of the cleaning pad 100 and the left and right lateral edge
  areas PR and PL of the cleaning pad 100 each pass through the applied fluid 172
  separately, thereby moistening the entire cleaning pad 100 along the entire bottom
  surface 100b of the cleaning pad 100 in contact with the floor surface 10.
  [00132]            In the example of FIG. 9G, the robot 400 moves in a forward direction F and 10
  then backward direction A along a center trajectory 1000, passing the center of the pad 100
  through the applied fluid 172. The robot 400 then drives in a forward direction F and

H igucnoveNRPotbtDCCGW' I l% 1 _l  I
                                  oc IIIdll 6
                                                 - 45
backward direction A along a right trajectory 1005, passing the left lateral area PL of the
cleaning pad 100 through the applied fluid 172. The robot 100 then drives in a forward
direction F and backward direction A along a left trajectory 1010, passing the right lateral
area PR of the cleaning pad 100 through the applied fluid 172. At the start of the cleaning
 run, the robot applies fluid 172 at a relatively high initial volumetric flow rate Vi and/or
high initial frequency of application, applying a larger quantity of fluid 172 more
 frequently to the surface 10 and/or applying a fixed amount of fluid 172 more frequently to
 the surface 10 to moisten the cleaning pad 100 quickly. Moistening the cleaning pad
 reduces friction and also enables the pad 100 to dissolve more debris 22 without requiring
 more frequent applications of fluid 172. In embodiments, the coefficient of friction of the
 warp layer 105 of the pad 100 varies from 0.3 to 0.5 depending on material of the floor 10
 and wetness of the pad 100. In one embodiment, a dry pad 100 moving on glass has a
 coefficient of friction of around 0.4 to 0.5, and wet on tiles has a coefficient of friction of
 about 0.25 to 0.4.
 [00133]          Once the wrap layer 105 of the cleaning pad 100 is moistened, the robot 400
 continues its cleaning run and subsequently applies fluid 172 at a second volumetric flow
 rate Vf. This second volumetric flow rate Vf is relatively lower than the initial flow rate Vi
 at the start of the cleaning run because the cleaning pad 100 is already moistened and
 effectively moves cleaning fluid across the surface 10 as it scrubs. In one implementation,
the initial volumetric flow rate Vi is set by spraying about ImL of fluid every 1.5 feet
initially for a period of time such as 1-3minutes, and the second volumetric flow rate Vf is
 set by spraying every 3 feet, wherein each spray of fluid is less than ImL of volume. The
robot 400 adjusts the volumetric flow rate V such that a cleaning pad 100 of specified
dimensions is moistened on the bottom surface I00b (FIG. 9E) without being fully wetted
to capacity internally in the airlaid layers 101, 102, 103. The bottom surface 100b of the
cleaning pad 100 is initially moistened without the absorbent interior of the pad 100 being
water logged such that the cleaning pad 100 remains fully absorbent for the remainder of
the cleaning run. The back and forth movement of the robot 400 breaks down stains 22 on
the floor surface 10. The broken down stains 22 are then absorbed by the cleaning pad 100.

  (i c emeiNRorIbl)DCC GWi lX7    i
                               I dIoc 11 N16
                                                  - 46
[00134]            In some examples, the cleaning pad 100 picks tip enough of the sprayed
fluid 172 to avoid uneven streaks. In some examples, the cleaning pad 100 leaves a residue
of the solution to provide a visible sheen to the floor surface 10 being scrubbed. In some
examples, the fluid 172 contains antibacterial solution: therefore, a thin layer of residue is
purposely not absorbed by the cleaning pad 100 to allow the fluid 172 to kill a higher
percentage of germs.
[00135]            In an embodiment, the pad may be scented. The scent agent may be integrated
into or applied onto one or more of the airlaid core layers. the liner or a combination of the
airlaid layers and liner. The scenting agent may be inert in a pre-activation stage and
activated by fluid to release scent so that the pad only produces a scent during use and
otherwise produces no scent while stored. In another embodiment, the pad includes a
cleaning agent or surfactant that may be integrated into or applied onto one or more of the
airlaid core layers, the liner, or a combination of the airlaid layers and liner. In one
embodiment, the cleaning agent is applied to only the back surface (unexposed, non
meltblown side) of the liner in contact with the lower most airlaid core member such that
the cleaning agent is released through the porous liner, onto the cleaning surface when in
contact with fluid. The cleaning agent may be a foaming agent and/or a cleaning agent
with a visibly glossy sheen indicating the application of the cleaning agent the cleaning
surface. In another embodiment, the pad includes one or more chemical preservatives
applied to or manufactured within the cardboard backing element. The preservatives are
selected to prevent the growth of wood spores that may be present in the wood based
backing element. Some embodiments of the pad may include all of these features
conventional scent agent, cleaning agent. antibacterial agent and preservatives - or
combinations of fewer than all of these features, including, for example. an encapsulated
scent..
[00136]            Referring to FIG. 5, in some examples, the implement 500 is a mop 500. The
mop 500 includes a body 502 supporting a reservoir 504 that holds a cleaning fluid 172
(e.g. a cleaning solution). A handle 506 is disposed on one side of the body 502. The
handle includes a controller 508 for controlling the release of the fluid from the
reservoir 504. A movable rotatable base 510 is disposed on the other end of the body 502

I"hylmemovemNRPertbllDCCiG  VX
                           ll1    1
                                docl 1 61I'2W
                                                   - 47
 opposite the handle 506. The base 510 includes a fluid applicator 512 connected to the
 reservoir 504 by a tube (not shown). The fluid applicator 512 may be a sprayer having at
 least one nozzle 514 that distributes fluid over the floor surface 10. The nozzle 514 sprays
 forward and downwards of the base 510 towards the floor surface 10. A user controlling
 the controller 508 sprays the fluid 172 when needed. The fluid applicator 512 may have
 multiple nozzles 514 each configured to spray the fluid in a direction different than another
 nozzle 514.
  [00137]            Referring to FIGS. 6, and 8E-8G, a retainer 600, 600a, 600b may be disposed
 on the implement 400, 500 supporting the cleaning pad 100. The retainer 600, 600a, 600b
  is disposed on a bottom portion of the implement 400, 500 for retaining the cleaning
 pad 100. In one embodiment, the retainer 600 may include hook-and-loop fasteners, and in
  another embodiment, the retainer 600 may include clips, or retention brackets, and
  selectively moveable clips or retention brackets for selectively releasing the pad for
 removal. Other types of retainers may be used to connect the cleaning pad 100 to
  implement 400, 500, such as snaps, clamps, brackets, adhesive, etc., which may be
 configured to allow the release of the cleaning pad 100 upon activation of a pad release
 mechanism located on the implement 400, 500 such that user need not touch the dirty used
 pad to remove the pad from the cleaning implement 400, 500.
  [001381            FIG. 7 provides an exemplary arrangement of operations for a method 700 of
 constructing a cleaning pad 100. The method 700 includes disposing 710 a first airlaid
 layer 101 on a second airlaid layer 102 and disposing 720 the second airlaid layer 102 on a
 third airlaid layer 103. The method 700 further includes wrapping 730 a wrap layer 104
 around the first, second, and third airlaid layers 101, 102, 103. The wrap layer 104
 includes a spunlace wrap layer 105, and a meltblown abrasive 107 adhered to the spunlace
 wrap layer 105.
  [00139]            In some examples, the method 700 further includes adhering and randomly
 arranging meltblown abrasive 107 on the spunlace wrap layer 105. Additionally or
 alternatively, the meltblown abrasive fibers may have a diameter of between about 0.1 pim
 and about 20 ptm. The method 700 may further include arranging the meltblown abrasive

                                             -48
and the spunlace wrap layer 105 to have a collective thickness of between 0.5 mm and
about 0.7 mm on the spunlace wrap layer 105. In some examples, the melblown
abrasive 107 creates a thickness gap of 0.5mm between the wrap layer 105 and the
floor 10. Because of this thickness gap, the pad 100 can pick up a 1.5mm diameter bubble
of fluid sitting on the floor 10 with surface tension without requiring force. The lowest
points of the embossed cover 105 layer are only 0.5 mm from the floor 10 and the
remainder of the surface area of wrap layer 105 is 3mm from the floor 10.
 [001401      The method 700 may further include arranging the meltblown abrasive 107 on
the spunlace wrap layer 105 to provide a covered surface ratio between the meltblown
abrasive 107 and the spunlace wrap layer 105 of between about 60% and about 70%. In
some examples, the method 700 may include adhering the first airlaid layer 101 to the
second airlaid layer 102 and adhering the second airlaid layer 102 to the third airlaid
layer 103. The airlaid layers 101, 102, 103 may be of a cellulose based textile material
(e.g., a material including fluff pulp).
 [00141]      In some implementations, the method 700 may include where the first, second,
and third airlaid layers 101, 102, 103, the spunlace wrap layer 105, and the meltblown
abrasive are configured to increase in thickness by less than 30% after fluid absorption.
The method 700 may further include embossing the spunlace layer 05. The method 700
may also include disposing sodium polyacrylate in one or more of the airlaid layers 101,
 102, 103.
 [001421      In some examples, the method 700 further includes configuring the airlaid
layers 101, 102, 103 and wrap layer 104 to have a combined width of between about
80 millimeters and about 68 millimeters, and a combined length of between about
200 millimeters and about 212 millimeters. The method 700 may further include
configuring the airlaid layers 101, 102, 103 and the wrap layer 104 to have a combined
thickness of between about 6.5 millimeters and about 8.5 millimeters. The method 700
may include configuring the airlaid layers 101, 102, 103 to have a combined airlaid width
of between 69 millimeters and about 75 millimeters, and a combined airlaid length of
between about 165 millimeters and about 171 millimeters.

Hi   WICFOchcNR oribItDCOW M 70I duc-III lV
                                                  - 49
                                                                                   pad 100 as
 [00143]           FIGS.8E-G demonstrate an exemplary release mechanism for the
                                                                                   a core of three
 described herein. FIGS. 8A-8C show an embodiment of the pad 100 having
 airlaid layers 101, 102, 103 bonded and enclosed in a wrap layer 105 adhered to the top
                                                                                          include
 surface of the top airlaid layer 101. Additionally, the embodiment of FIGS. 8A-8C
 a cardboard backing layer 85 adhered to the top surface of the pad 100. The cardboard
 backing layer 85 protrudes beyond the longitudinal edges of the pad 100 and the
                                                                                           holder
 protruding longitudinal edges 86 of the cardboard backing layer 85 attach to the pad
 82 of the robot 100. In one embodiment, the cardboard backing layer 85 is between 0.02"
 and 0.03" thick, between 68 and 72 mm wide and between 90-94mm long. In one
 embodiment, the cardboard backing layer 85 is .026" thick, 70mm wide and 92mm long.
 In one embodiment, the cardboard backing layer 85 is coated on both sides with a water
 resistant coating, such as wax or polymer or a combination of water resistant materials,
  such as wax/polyvinyl alcohol, polyamine, and the cardboard backing layer 85 does not
  disintegrate when wetted.
  [00144]            In embodiments, the bottom surface I00b of the pad 100 may include one or
  more hair catching strips 100c for catch and collect loose hair during cleaning. In the
  embodiment of FIG. 9E, two hair catching strips 100c are depicted in dashed line to
  indicate the option nature of this feature. In an embodiment having one or more hair
  catching strips 100c, the strip or strips 100c may be located on outer longitudinal edges of
  the pad 100 or in a single strip on either longitudinal edge of the pad or down the middle of
  the pad. In embodiments, each hair catching strip 100c is less than 30% of the total surface
  area of the bottom surface I00b of the pad 100 and preferably is less than 20% of the
  surface area of the bottom surface 100b of the pad 100. The hair catching strip 100c may
  be a strip of material added to the wrap layer 105 that includes loose fibers with catching
  features, such as Velcro hooks, rough edged fibers or fibers with a fused tip.
   1001451           As shown in FIGS.8E and 8G, the pad 100 as described herein can be secured
  to an autonomous robot through a pad holder 82 which can be attached to the robot 400.
  An exemplary pad release mechanism 83 is also shown in an up or pad-secure position.
  The pad release mechanism 83 includes a retainer 600a. or lip, that holds the pad 100
  securely in place by grasping the protruding longitudinal edges 86 of the cardboard

S    Imrn    ONRPOnbhIDCC
          scn \         G.'Il96871,5I dod. 'il<016
                                                   - 50
                                                                                            83
backing layer 85. In the version shown, the tip or end 84 of the pad release mechanism
 includes a moveable retention clip 600a and an eject protrusion 84 that slides up through a
 slot or opening in the pad holder 82 when the pad is inserted into the holder 82, and is
                                                                                         shown
 pushed into a down position to release the secured pad 100 as shown in FIG 8G, as
  here pushing down on the attached backing layer 85, e.g. cardboard backing. The
  relationship between the pad and the pad holder 82 is also shown in a top view in FIG 8F.
  In one embodiment, the pad release mechanism 83 is activated by a toggle button 477
  located under the handle 419 of the robot 400, as shown in FIG. 4. The toggle motion is
  indicated by the dotted double arrow 478. Toggling the toggle button 477 moves a spring
  actuator that rotates the pad release mechanism 83, moving the retention clip 600a away
  from the cardboard backing layer 85 and moving the eject protrusion 84 through the slot in
  the the pad holder 882 so that the eject protrusion pushes the pad 100 out of the holder.
   [00146]          Returning to FIGS. 8A and 8B, in embodiments, the cardboard backing layer 85
  may include cutouts 88 centered along the protruding longitudinal edges 86 of the
  cardboard backing layer 85 and corresponding in position with raised protrusion 94 on the
  bottom of the pad holder 82, as shown in FIG. 8D. In another embodiment, the cardboard
  backing layer 85 contains a first set of cutouts 88 centered on the protruding longitudinal
  edges 86 of the cardboard backing layer 85 and a second set of cutouts 90 on the lateral
  edges of the cardboard backing layer 85. The cutouts 88, 90 are symmetrically centered
  along the longitudinal center axis PCA 01 of the pad 100 and lateral center axis PCAim of
  the pad 100 and engage with corresponding protrusions 92, 94 centered on the longitudinal
  center axis HCAion of the underside of the pad holder 82 and lateral center axis PCAi on
  the underside of the pad holder 82. The pad holder 82 of the embodiment of FIG. 8D
  includes three raised protrusions 92. 94. This is so that a user may install the pad 100 in
  either of two identical directions (180 degrees opposite to one another) while allowing the
  pad holder 82 to more easily release the pad 100 when the release mechanism 83 is
  triggered. Other embodiments of the pad holder include four protrusions 92, 94
  corresponding in position to the four cutouts 88, 90 on the cardboard backing layer in
  FIG. 8C. In still other embodiments, the pad holder 82 and pad 100 respectively include
  raised protrusions and corresponding cut outs in any other number or configuration for
  holding the pad in place and enabling selective release.

111g, lm~conO~1NRVOrIbIDCCGWPllw doc   I1
                                     ldI
                                                     -51
 100147]             In FIG. 8D, the raised protrusion 94 on the longitudinal edge of the pad
                                                                                             view so
 holder 82 is obscured by the retaining bracket 600a. which is shown in phantom
                                                                                        The
 that the raised protrusion 94 therebeneath is visible in the exemplary view.
                                                                                    to the bottom of
 protrusions 92, 94 both poke yoke attachment of the disposable pad 100
                                                                                precise and retain the
 the pad holder 82 so that alignment if the pad 100 to the holder 82 is
                                                                                          transverse
 pad 100 relatively stationary to the pad holder 82 by preventing lateral and/or
 slippage.
  [00148]             Because the cutouts 88, 90 extend into the surface area of the cardboard
  backing layer 85, they respectively interface with more lateral and longitudinal surface
  area of the raised protrusions 92, 94 and the pad is held in place against rotational forces as
  well by the cutout-protrusion retention system. The robot 100 moves in a scrubbing
  motion, as described above, and, in embodiments, the pad holder 82 oscillates the pad for
  additional scrubbing. In embodiments, the robot 400 oscillates the attached pad 100 in an
  orbit of 12-15mm to scrub the floor 10 and applies 1 pound of downward pushing force or
  less to the pad. By aligning cutouts 88, 90 in the cardboard backing layer 85 with
  protrusions 92, 94, the pad 100 remains stationary relative to the holder during use. and the
  application of scrubbing motion, including oscillation motion, directly transfers from the
  pad holder 82 through the layers of the pad without loss of transferred movement.
  [00149]              In embodiments. the pad of FIGS. IA- ID and 8A-8C are disposable pads. In
  other embodiments, the pad 100 is a reusable microfiber cloth pad having the same
  absorptive characteristics as those described herein with regard to embodiments. In
  embodiments having a washable, reusable microfiber cloth, the top surface of the cloth
  includes a secured stiff backing layer shaped and positioned like the cardboard backing
  layer of the embodiments of FIGS. 8A-8C. The stiff backing layer is made of heat
  resistant, washable material that can be machine dried without melting or degrading the
  backing. The stiff backing layer is dimensioned and has cutouts as described herein for
  interchangeable use with the embodiment of the pad holder 82 described with regard to the
  embodiments of FIGS. 8A-8G.

IVgpII inicmoteI NRPonbt7DCCi  75 _Idoe98lI 1121h,
                                                        - 52
 [00150]              In other examples, the pad 100 is intended for use as a disposable dry cloth and
comprises a single layer of needle punched spunbond or spunlace material having exposed
fibers for entrapping hair. The dry pad 100 embodiment further comprises a chemical
treatment that adds a tackiness characteristic to the pad 100 for retaining dirt and debris. In
one embodiment, the chemical treatment is a material such as that marketed under the trade
name DRAKESOL.
[00151]               A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless, it will be
understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and
scope of the disclosure. Accordingly, other implementations are within the scope of the
following claims. For example, the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a
different order and still achieve desirable results.
[00152]               Throughout this specification and the claims which follow. unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group
of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or
steps.
[00153]               The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information
derived from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an
acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or
information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general
knowledge in the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.

Il:\plw\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\PLW\17002818_1.docx-22 05/2018
                                                               - 53
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
                  1.            A floor cleaning robot comprising:
                 a robot body;
                 one or more drive wheels supporting the robot body above a floor surface and
configured to maneuver the robot body across the floor surface;
                 a pad holder disposed forward of the one or more drive wheels and configured to
receive a cleaning pad; and
                 a fluid applicator to apply a fluid to the floor surface such that the received cleaning
pad absorbs the fluid during forward movement of the robot body; and
                 a controller to initiate operations of the fluid applicator to:
                                apply sprays of the fluid at a first volumetric flow rate during a first
                 spraying period to wet the floor surface, and then
                                apply sprays of the fluid at a second volumetric flow rate during a second
                 spraying period to wet the floor surface, the second volumetric flow rate of the
                 second spraying period being less than the first volumetric flow rate of the first
                 spraying period.
                 2.              The robot of claim 1, wherein the first volumetric flow rate is defined by:
                 a predefined distance travelled by the robot body between consecutive sprays of the
fluid during the first spraying period, and
                 a predefined volume of the fluid in each of the consecutive sprays of the fluid
during the first spraying period,
                 wherein the predefined distance is greater than a corresponding distance for the
second volumetric flow rate or the predefined volume is greater than a corresponding
volume for the second volumetric flow rate.
                 3.              The robot of claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to:
                 during the first spraying period, initiate application of the sprays of the fluid at the
first volumetric flow rate when the cleaning pad is dry to moisten the cleaning pad, and

Il:\plw\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\PLW\17002818_1.docx-22 05/2018
                                                               - 54
                 during the second spraying period, initiate application of the sprays of the fluid at
the second volumetric flow rate when the moistened cleaning pad is absorptive.
                 4.              The robot of claim 1, wherein the first spraying period has a predefined
length of time or being associated with a total travel distance, and the controller is
configured to initiate application of the sprays of the fluid during the second spraying
period after applying the sprays of the fluid for the first spraying period for the predefined
length of time or after causing the robot body to travel the total travel distance during the
first spraying period.
                 5.              The robot of claim 4, wherein the controller is configured to cause the
robot body to move in birdsfoot movement patterns while applying the sprays of the fluid
during the first spraying period.
                 6.              The robot of claim 4, wherein the controller is configured to
                 initiate application of a spray of the fluid each instance the robot body travels a first
predefined distance during the first spraying period, and
                 initiate application of a spray of the fluid each instance the robot body travels a
second predefined distance during the second spraying period,
                 wherein the first predefined distance is less than the second predefined distance.
                 7.              The robot of claim 1, wherein the sprays of the fluid applied during the first
spraying period each has a first volume, and the sprays of the fluid applied during the
second spraying period each has a second volume, the first volume being larger than the
second volume.
                 8.              The robot of claim 1, wherein a first spray frequency is used to apply the
fluid at the first volumetric flow rate and a second spray frequency is used to apply the
fluid at the second volumetric flow rate, the first spray frequency being larger than the
second spray frequency.

Il:\plw\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\PLW\17002818_1.docx-22
                                                    05/2018
                                                            - 55
                 9.             The robot of claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to initiate
application of the sprays during the first spraying period at a start of a cleaning run.
                 10.            The robot of claim 1, wherein the controller is configured, after the first
spraying period, to apply the sprays during the second spraying period until an end of a
cleaning run.
                 11.            A method of cleaning a floor surface with a floor cleaning robot, the
method comprising:
                 during a first spraying period, applying sprays of a fluid at a first volumetric flow
rate to wet the floor surface while causing forward movement of the robot across the floor
surface such that a cleaning pad of the robot absorbs the fluid, and then
                 during a second spraying period, applying sprays of the fluid at a second
volumetric flow rate to wet the floor surface while causing forward movement of the robot
across the floor surface such that the cleaning pad of the robot absorbs the fluid,
                 wherein the first volumetric flow rate of the first spraying period is larger than the
second volumetric flow rate of the second spraying period.
                 12.            The method of claim 11, wherein the first volumetric flow rate is defined
by:
                 a predefined distance travelled by the robot between consecutive sprays of the fluid
during the first spraying period, and
                 a predefined volume of the fluid in each of the consecutive sprays of the fluid
during the first spraying period,
                 wherein the predefined distance is greater than a corresponding distance for the
second volumetric flow rate or the predefined volume is greater than a corresponding
volume for the second volumetric flow rate.
                 13.            The method of claim 11, wherein:

Il:\plw\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\PLW\17002818_1.docx-22
                                                    05/2018
                                                            - 56
                 applying the sprays at the first volumetric flow rate comprises initiating application
of the sprays of the fluid at the first volumetric flow rate when the cleaning pad of the
robot is dry to moisten the cleaning pad of the robot, and
                 applying the sprays at the second volumetric flow rate comprises initiating
application of the sprays of the fluid at the second volumetric flow rate when the
moistened cleaning pad of the robot is absorptive.
                 14.            The method of claim 11, wherein the first spraying period has a predefined
length of time or being associated with a total travel distance, and the method further
comprises:
                 initiating application of the sprays of the fluid during the second spraying period
after applying the sprays of the fluid for the first spraying period for the predefined length
of time or after causing the robot to travel the total travel distance during the first spraying
period.
                 15.            The method of claim 14, further comprising causing the robot to move in
birdsfoot movement patterns while applying the sprays of the fluid during the first spraying
period.
                 16.            The method of claim 14, wherein:
                 applying the sprays of the fluid during the first spraying period comprises initiating
application of a spray of the fluid each instance the robot travels a first predefined distance
during the first spraying period, and
                 applying the sprays of the fluid during the second spraying period comprises
initiating application of a spray of the fluid each instance the robot travels a second
predefined distance during the second spraying period,
                 wherein the first predefined distance is less than the second predefined distance.
                 17.            The method of claim 11, wherein the sprays of the fluid applied during the
first spraying period each has a first volume, and the sprays of the fluid applied during the

Il:\plw\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\PLW\17002818_1.docx-22 05/2018
                                                               - 57
second spraying period each has a second volume, the first volume being larger than the
second volume.
                  18.            The method of claim 11, wherein a first spray frequency is used to apply
the fluid at the first volumetric flow rate and a second spray frequency is used to apply the
fluid at the second volumetric flow rate, the first spray frequency being larger than the
second spray frequency.
                  19.            The method of claim 11, wherein applying the sprays of the fluid during
the first spraying period comprises initiating application of the sprays during the first
spraying period at a start of a cleaning run.
                 20.             The method of claim 11, wherein applying the sprays of the fluid during
the second spraying period comprises, after applying the sprays during the first spraying
period, applying the sprays during the second spraying period until an end of a cleaning
run.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                         <removed-apn>     <removed-date>
    
                                                       
                               ,>d                  ,>KE
                                                  
                                                  ,>KE
                                                                  12/21
                                                                          
1   <U+0382>s<U+03F0><U+03F2><U+03F2><U+03F0><U+03F1><U+03EC><U+03EE><U+03EE><U+03EE><U+03F3><U+03EC><U+03F4><U+03EF><U+0358>K<U+0383>    FIG. 8D
                             &/'<U+0358><U+03F4>

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                            13/21
FIG. 8E
                                     1

                    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
     8
                                        14/21
                                         
1

               8
     FIG. 8F
     
     F   .  

<removed-date>
                             15/21
                            1
                                    6
<removed-apn>
                                                    FIG. 8G
                                                              .
                                                              
                                                              .
                                                              
                                                              F
              8
                       8                      
                                               1
                  88
                                          8
                               
                               6

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
