Abstract - <removed-apn>
The "Fisherman's Pick" is a functional railway insulation pad and biscuit removal tool.
Taking insulation pads off a sleeper has been a challenge for a long time, incorrect
tools for the job have led to equipment damage, injuries and down time. It is made
light weight to eliminate fatigue. The lock in system allows the user to replace a
worn pick end or in fact replace the attachment with the biscuit removal head. The
pad removal head is shaped to lift it up from under the pad
sliding off the sleeper. The biscuit head attachment allows the user to slide the edge
of the attachment along the foot of the rail lifting the insulated biscuit up and out of
the pandrol lug.

4~ui
     22

    Editorial Note
      <removed-apn>
There is one page of description only

The handle is made out of light weight material, fibre glass and plastic but the handle can also
be constructed out of timber or any other stong based material.
Fig.1 : the handle is constructed with inbuilt grips at the lower end so the hand can hold on
tight. the bolds will be counter sunk into the upper end. The handle is slightly curved.
Fig.2 : The removable pick end is made out of hard or medium steel the handle is 1000 mm
long and attachments vary from sizes.
The attachments include : pad remover, biscuit remover,
Fig.2 : Two bolts are required for holding in attachments at end of handle. There can be
multiple attachements for this tool.
Fig.3 and fig.4 : The handle is straight with the key lock in the upper end. The under side has
the grip and the attachment removable slot.
Fig 1.1 and fig 2.2The attachments are sprayed with a paint material to stop rust. The
attachments are 600 to 800 mm long

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

 The "Fisherman's Pick" is a functional railway insulation pad and biscuit removal tool. Taking
insulation pads off a sleeper has been a challenge for a long time, incorrect tools for the job
have led to equipment damage, injuries and down time... The "fishermans pick" has been
designed as the "right tool for the job" and also adding the ability to add many more benefits.
 It is made light weight to eliminate fatigue. Manual handling becomes more comfortable
because of the ergonmic length of the handle, not having to bend over to remove the insulation
pad or removing insulated biscuits controls the likelihood of back strain, flying debris and dust
particles projecting towards the face.
This tool allows the user to not only focus on the task but also enhance the sighting in the
operators periphials : eg, spotting machines, personnel, stored energy and rail movements. By
putting more hazard controls in place removes potential of injurys.
Traditional methods for the task include tools that bend, break or even give first aid injurys to
labourers, the fisherman has been designed to take on heavy duty tasks and prevent the
pertential of a first aid injury.
Stainless steel bolts with lock nuts will create a tight bond to hold the attachment in place
without the attachment moving, lug holes with key lock on the attachment with control the
attachment from moving inside the handle. The lock in system allows the user to replace a
worn pick end or in fact replace the attachment with the biscuit removel head.
The heavy duty insulation pad removal head lifts the edge of the pad up, allowing it to become
free from the pandrol lugs, the area can be built up with dirt, ion ore, steel or other materials
making it difficult to remove. The pad removal head is shaped to lift it up from under the pad
sliding off the sleeper.
The biscuit head attachment allows the user to slide the edge of the attachment along the foot
of the rail lifting the insulated biscuit up and out of the pandrol lug
The "Fisherman's Pick" will pack away neat and tidy and will take up little room on trucks, tool
racks or ute trays, the tool is insulated and will diliniate the potential of electric shock or if laid
over track will not show an occupation.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
