                                               ABSTRACT
The invention disclosed is a plant maintenance apparatus to move along a plant or line of plants.
The apparatus has a support frame to connect to a prime mover to move the apparatus. A sensing
member is mounted from the frame, to contact and be deflected by the plant as the apparatus is
moved. A sensor to senses the deflection and if the deflection is above a threshold it issues a signal
to an actuator. There is a near ground member, mounted from and moving with the frame. The near
ground member acted on by the actuator, so that when the threshold is met the near ground member
moves to a first position away from the plant when immediately adjacent thereto, and then moves to
a second position once past said plant. The result is the near ground member can treat a ground or
soil or otherwise at or near a plant at least when in the second position, including disturbing any
non-desired plants on the ground, whilst moving away from and not disturbing the plant which is
sensed and above the threshold when in the first position.

  WO 2015/009170                                                               PCT/NZ2014/000148
                                                      1
      IMPROVEMENTS IN, OR RELATING TO, PLANT MAINTENANCE
     TECHNICAL FIELD OF THE INVENTION
     The present invention relates to maintain plants and their surrounding environment.
 5
      In particular, though not solely, the present invention is directed to systems and apparatus
     to maintain the soil and supporting structure around a plant, or plants, and aid in weed
     control.
10   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
     There is a need to control non-productive plant growth around productive plants. This is
     especially so when the productive plants are in an early stage and the non-productive
     plants may otherwise crowd or compete with the productive plant for space, sunlight,
     moisture and nutrients. Also reducing non-productive plant presence and growth
15   increases the purity of harvested product as unwanted plant species and content is
     reduced or removed.
     In addition it is desirable to keep soil about the plant in a particular state, for example
     around the base of the plant to protect and support it.
20
     Traditionally the solution to these problems was to hand weed around the furrows and
     rows of the plants. This was accurate and being done by a human would allow for correct
     identification between producing and non-producing species. The human, even using a
     tool, was then skilled enough to extract or cover the non-producing species and leave the
25   producing species undamaged. This would also move surrounding soil where it was
     needed.
     However, human based solutions while accurate are time and labour intensive.
30   Weeding using tools is preferable and mandatory for some crops during or toward their
     final growth stage. Therefore weed-killer spraying, even spot or targeted spraying can be
     undesirable. Further such spraying does not condition and move the soil in the beneficial
     ways that weeding using tools can.
35   Automated solutions have also been developed - mainly these use spray or mechanical
     systems, which have the disadvantages already discussed.

 WO 2015/009170                                                                PCT/NZ2014/000148
                                                     2
    Automated systems that use mechanical weeding are known. However these tend to use
    optical sensing and pattern recognition to activate the weeding system. Optical based
    systems, quite apart from the significant programming required and sensitive equipment
    present, also need a continuous quality power supply and are sensitive to fluctuations in
 5  that supply. Other systems utilise GPS technology. However, this requires not only a
    very accurate and sophisticated GPS system, but also the exact GPS location of each
    plant to then activate the weeding for each individual plant.
     It would therefore be desirable to achieve a solution to these problems using a
10  mechanised approach, which reduces the time and labour component but keeps the
    accuracy and does not damage the producing species nor the environment.
     In this specification where reference has been made to patent specifications, other
    external documents, or other sources of information, this is generally for the purpose of
15  providing a context for discussing the features of the invention. Unless specifically stated
    otherwise, reference to such external documents is not to be construed as an admission
    that such documents, or such sources of information, in any jurisdiction, are prior art, or
    form part of the common general knowledge in the art.
20  It is an object of the present invention to provide an improved plant maintenance system,
    method and apparatus, or to overcome the above shortcomings or address the above
    desiderata, or to at least provide the public with a useful choice.
    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
25  In a first aspect the present invention consists in a plant maintenance apparatus
    adapted to be moved in a direction of movement adjacent to or along a plant, said
    apparatus comprising or including,
              A support frame for connection to a prime mover to enable at least said
    movement,
30            At least one sensing member, mounted from said frame, to contact and be
    deflected by said plant as said apparatus is moved,
              A first sensor to sense said deflection and if said deflection is above a threshold
    issue a signal to an actuator,
              At least one near ground member, mounted from said frame and moving therewith,
35  said at least one near ground member acted on by said actuator, such that when said
    threshold is met said at least one near ground member moves to a first position away from
    said plant when immediately adjacent thereto, and then moves to a second position once

  WO 2015/009170                                                               PCT/NZ2014/000148
                                                      3
      past said plant,
              Such that said at least one near ground member can treat a ground or soil or
     otherwise at or near a plant at least when in said second position, including disturbing any
      non-desired plants on said ground, whilst moving away from and not disturbing said plant
 5   which is sensed and above said threshold when in said first position.
      Preferably there is a pair of said at least one sensing members, adapted to locate either
     side of said plants, and drive said first sensor.
10    Preferably each said sensing member drives its own said first sensor.
     Preferably said plant is part of a line or row of plants.
     Preferably said line of plants is substantially aligned in a straight line.
15
     Preferably said apparatus when being moved adjacent or along said plant has a line of
     said movement along a centre line of said plant.
     Preferably there is a guide throat mounted from said support frame to guide said plant to
20   said at least one sensing member.
     Preferably said guide throat lifts any foliage of said plant clear of said ground.
     Preferably said at least one sensing member is pivotally mounted from said support
25   frame.
     Preferably said deflection of one or both said pair of sensing members is detected and
     used to measure said threshold.
30   Preferably there is a pair of said near ground members.
     Preferably said near ground members can be actuated independent of, or together with,
     each other.
35   Preferably each of said pair of near ground members is located one either side of said
     plants.
     Preferably said near ground member is a ground engaging member to till said ground, and

  WO 2015/009170                                                              PCT/NZ2014/000148
                                                      4
     disturb any said non-desired plants.
      Preferably said disturbing is by burying, removing from said ground, severing, or
     otherwise destroying said non-desired plant.
 5
     Preferably said near ground member moves at least some of said ground to around a
     base of said plant.
     Preferably said near ground member(s) may otherwise apply a chemical, or perform an
10   operation on said desired plant, for example trimming, debudding, pruning or similar.
     Preferably a timing between sensing said threshold and actuation of said near ground
     member is adjustable.
15   Preferably said first sensor is electrical, for example proximity, Hall-effect, micro-switch, or
     other sensor.
     Preferably said first sensor is mechanical.
20   Preferably said actuator is an air ram to move said near ground member to said first
     position, or to said second position, to work against a biasing return means to said second
     position or said first position.
     Preferably there is a second sensor forward with respect to said direction of movement
25   which senses a presence of a said plant and arms said first sensor and/or actuator, for
     example said second sensor could be infrared, laser or similar to detect presence of a
     plant.
     Preferably said near ground member(s) is/are mounted on said support frame such that at
30   least an acting or effective part thereof moves substantially perpendicular to said direction
     of movement.
     Preferably said near ground member(s) are mounted pivotally or slidably on or from said
     support frame.
35
     Preferably said acting or effective part moves in a substantially horizontal direction.
     Preferably said ground engaging member(s) at least in part locate beneath a surface of

  WO 2015/009170                                                            PCT/NZ2014/000148
                                                     5
     said ground to till or hoe said soil.
     Preferably there is a plurality of said apparatus connected to said prime mover to be
     moved along one or more lines of said plants at a time.
 5
     Preferably said apparatus includes adjustment of said support frame relative to said prime
     mover perpendicular to said direction of movement, to adjust for a desired height and or
     width relative said prime mover or ground.
10   Preferably said adjustment is a sliding tool bar for mounting and adjusting said apparatus
     or said plurality thereof.
     Preferably said adjustment can be controlled manually or automatically.
15   Preferably said automatic adjustment is achieved through GPS or infrared cameras.
     Preferably data from at least said first sensor(s) is recorded, with GPS co-ordinates and
     time to load into a database about said plant or plants.
20   Preferably there are additional static members to affect said plant(s) or ground as said
     apparatus is moved.
     In another aspect the present invention consists in a method of maintaining plants
     comprising or including the steps of,
25           Moving a support frame connected to a prime mover along a line of plants,
             Sensing at least one of said plants by at least one sensing member contacting and
     being deflected by at least one of said plants, said at least one sensing member being
     mounted from said frame,
             Signalling an actuator to actuate at least one near ground member if said
30   deflection is above a threshold,
             Wherein said at least one near ground member, mounted from said frame and
     moving therewith, is moved when said threshold is met to a first position away from said
     plant when immediately adjacent thereto, and then moves to a second position back again
     once past said plant,
35           Such that said at least one near ground member can treat a ground or soil at or
     near a plant, including disturbing any non-desired plants on said ground, whilst moving
     away from and not disturbing said plant which is sensed and above said threshold.
     Preferably there is a a pair of said at least one sensing member, adapted to locate either

  WO 2015/009170                                                              PCT/NZ2014/000148
                                                      6
     side of said plants.
     Preferably said plant is part of a line or row of plants.
 5   Preferably said line of plants are substantially aligned in a straight line.
     Preferably said movement adjacent or along said line of plants has a line of said
     movement along a centre line of said plants.
10
     Preferably including providing a guide throat mounted from said support frame to guide
     said plant to said at least one sensing member.
     Preferably said guide throat lifts any foliage of said plant clear of said ground.
15
     Preferably said at least one sensing member is pivotally mounted from said support
     frame.
     Preferably when dependent on claim 35, wherein said deflection of both said pair of
20   sensing members is detected and used to measure said threshold.
     Preferably said near ground members are ground engaging members to till said ground,
     and disturb any said non-desired plants.
25   Preferably said disturbing is by burying, removing from said ground, severing, or
     otherwise destroying said non-desired plant.
     Preferably said near ground members move at least some of said ground to around a
     base of said plant.
30
     Preferably there is a timing between sensing said threshold and actuation of said near
     ground member is adjustable.
     Preferably said first sensor is electrical, for example proximity, Hall-effect, micro-switch, or
35   other sensor.
     Preferably said first sensor is mechanical.

   WO 2015/009170                                                            PCT/NZ2014/000148
                                                      7
       Preferably said actuator is an air ram to move said near ground members to said first
      position, or to said second position, to work against a biasing return means to said second
      position or said first position.
  5
      Preferably there is a second sensor forward with respect to said direction of movement
      which senses a presence of a said plant and arms said first sensor and/or actuator.
      Preferably said near ground members are mounted on said support frame such that at
 10   least an acting or effective part thereof moves substantially perpendicular to said direction
      of movement.
      Preferably said near ground members are mounted pivotally or slidably on or from said
      support frame.
 15
      Preferably said acting or effective part moves in a substantially horizontal direction.
      Preferably said ground engaging members at least in part locate beneath a surface of said
     ground to till or hoe said soil.
20
      Preferably there is a plurality of said steps are performed behind said prime mover to be
     moved along two or more lines of said plants at a time.
     Preferably said method includes adjustment of said support frame relative to said prime
25   mover perpendicular to said direction of movement, to adjust for a desired height and or
     width relative said prime mover or ground.
     Preferably said adjustment is a sliding tool bar for mounting and adjusting said apparatus
     or said plurality thereof.
30
     Preferably said adjustment can be controlled manually or automatically.
     Preferably said automatic adjustment is achieved through GPS or infrared cameras.
35   In a further aspect the present invention consists in a plant maintenance apparatus as
     described herein with reference to any one or more of the accompanying drawings.
     In still a further aspect the present invention consists in a method of maintaining plants
     as described herein with reference to any one or more of the accompanying drawings.

  WO 2015/009170                                                              PCT/NZ2014/000148
                                                      8
     As used herein the term "and/or" means "and" or "or", or both.
     As used herein "(s)" following a noun means the plural and/or singular forms of the noun.
 5
     The term "comprising" as used in this specification means "consisting at least in part of".
     When interpreting statements in this specification which include that term, the features,
     prefaced by that term in each statement, all need to be present, but other features can
     also be present. Related terms such as "comprise" and "comprised" are to be interpreted
10   in the same manner.
     It is intended that reference to a range of numbers disclosed herein (for example, 1 to 10)
     also incorporates reference to all rational numbers within that range (for example, 1, 1.1,
     2, 3, 3.9, 4, 5, 6, 6.5, 7, 8, 9 and 10) and also any range of rational numbers within that
15   range (for example, 2 to 8, 1.5 to 5.5 and 3.1 to 4.7).
     The entire disclosures of all applications, patents and publications, cited above and below,
     if any, are hereby incorporated by reference.
20   To those skilled in the art to which the invention relates, many changes in construction
     and widely differing embodiments and application of the invention will suggest themselves
     without departing from the scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims. The
     disclosures and the descriptions herein are purely illustrative and are not intended to be in
     any sense limiting.
25
     Other aspects of the invention may become apparent from the following description which
     is given by way of example only and with reference to the accompanying drawings.
     BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
30   Preferred forms of the present invention will now be described with reference to the
     accompanying drawings in which;
     Figure 1         Shows a linear line of plants and the direction of movement of the
                      apparatus of the present invention along them from above, using a prime
35                    mover (not shown),
     Figure 2         Shows the same view as that in Figure 1 but from the side,

  WO 2015/009170                                                              PCT/NZ2014/000148
                                                     9
     Figure 3        Shows one embodiment of the actuated and nonO-actuated near ground
                     members, in that case as ground engaging members to till the soil and
                     weed,
  5
     Figure 4        Is a flow diagram of a method of control of the present invention, and
     Figure 5        Shows a number of units from behind when drawn by a prime mover along
                     several lines of plants.
 10
     DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
     Preferred embodiments will now be described with reference to Figures 1 through 4.
     In Figures 1 and 2 a line 17 of desired plants 2B is shown. The line 17 shown here is a
15   straight one as is common in agriculture, for example in a ploughed and planted field.
     However, equally the line 17 could be curved in any way as long as this line 17 can be
     followed. Among the desired plants 2B are non-desired plants 2A. These are typically
     weeds, or any plant (even a productive one) that is not needed or desired.
20  The apparatus 1 for plant maintenance is also shown in Figures 1 and 2. The apparatus 1
     is drawn in a direction of movement 3 by a prime mover 4 (not shown) to substantially
    follow the line 17 of plants 2B. In the preferred form the apparatus 1 is drawn behind a
     prime mover, for example a tractor or similar, and is mounted to the draw bar thereof.
     However the apparatus could also be forward or mid-mounted on the prime mover, of any
25  combination thereof.
    The apparatus 1 has a support frame 5 from which the majority of following components
    are mounted. Forward most are initial guides 18 which direct plants toward the centre line
     19 of the apparatus 1, or alternatively direct the centre line 19 of the apparatus to or
30  towards the line 17 of the plants.
    Also mounted from the support frame 5 is a guide throat 12. The guide throat 12 and
    initial guides 18 are preferably slung underneath the support frame 5 at a height starting
    just below the foliage 13 of the plants 2B. This height can be adjusted as desired for
35  different age or different plants. The throat 12 closes over its length such that foliage
    moving along it as the apparatus is drawn along the line of movement 3, is carried
    upwards and away from the ground 11. This keeps the base of the plant 2 clear for
    actions which are described below.

  WO 2015/009170                                                            PCT/NZ2014/000148
                                                    10
     In addition the support frame itself may be adjusted relative to the ground level, for the
     desired depth or effect, and may also be adjust horizontally as needed to adjust to the line
     of plants. The horizontal adjustment may be achieved via a sliding bar 21 between the
 5   prime mover and the support frame allowing movement horizontally of the apparatus
     relative the prime mover 4 and/or the ground 11. Adjustment relative the ground level
     may be achieved by raising or lowering the slide bar for example, this may be achieved by
     raising or lowering the draw bar or similar of the prime mover. The adjustments may be
     driven hydraulically. The adjustment both horizontally and vertically relative the ground
10   may be achieved manually or automatically, for example, but not limited to, GPS or
     infrared camera input.
     In addition the apparatus may have a floating articulated link 22 shown in Figure 2
     between the support frame and the prime mover, whether or not a sliding bar 21 exists
15   between them. The floating link in one preferred form consists of a linkage with pivots at
     either end, one end connected to the support frame, the other end connected to the prime
     mover (directly or indirectly). The pivots articulate about an axis substantially parallel to
     the ground and perpendicular to the line of movement. In this way the apparatus is free to
     the extent the link 22 allows to move up and down and follow the terrain of the ground and
20   any bumps therein.
     For example when the near ground members 10 engage the ground as ground engaging
     members, then the apparatus is in part pulled downward into the ground, the floating link
     22 allows the apparatus to move as needed up and down to follow the terrain of the
25   ground 11 and any variations therein or thereon.
     At a desired point along the length of the guide throat 12 and too one side is at least one
     sensing member 6 - in the preferred form there are two such sensors 6 on one each side
     of the guide throat 12 - in one form of the invention they are pivotally mounted from the
30   support frame 5 such that they can pivot outwardly of the centre line 19. As the plant 2
     moves past them the sensor members 6 deflect outwardly - normally by the base area of
     the plant 2. The base area being exposed because the foliage has been lifted as earlier
     described. The sensing member(s) 6 may at any path along the apparatus, for example
     at the front or midway apparatus, or as shown toward the exit of the guide throat.
35
     The deflection is sensed by a first sensor 8. A user adjustable threshold is set into the
     system, prior to, or during use. The threshold for example may be the size of the base

  WO 2015/009170                                                            PCT/NZ2014/000148
                                                   11
     area of plants 2 that are considered desirable, anything under that threshold size is
     considered undesirable (e.g. a weed) and is to be removed. There may also be an
     additional oversize threshold so that plants over a certain size are also removed. In this
     way undesirable plants that grow faster or slower than that target plant are removed or
 5   disturbed. In other options this may in addition or in place be a height sensor, and may be
     achieved in known sensing ways, such as by ultra-sound, sonar, or density detection.
     If this deflection exceeds a set user adjustable threshold, and optionally is under the
     oversize threshold, then a signal is sent to an actuator 9. The actuator engages and can
10   move a near ground member 10 as desired. In one embodiment there are two such
     members 10, and they engage just below the ground, as ground engaging members, for
     example as hoes or cultivators. The actuator moves this preferably pair of members 10
     as shown in Figures 1 through 3. Namely when un-actuated they lie a certain distance off
     the line 17 - held in place by a biasing means (not shown). When actuated they move
15   outwardly via the actuator 9 (for example an air ram, motor or similar). A timer
     (mechanical or otherwise) sets the time between sensing by the sensor 8 and actuation
     and also de-actuation and closing. A biasing means, for example a spring may help, or
     may be solely responsible for closing, for example a spring. Alternatively the spring may
     hold the members open and the actuator may close them. In other embodiments the
20   actuator may both open and close the members. In other embodiments the near ground
     member 10, for example the ground engaging member may be actuated by its own
     actuator 9, for example where there is a pair of members 10 as shown in Figure 3, each
     with its own independent actuator 9A, B. In this configuration the members 10 may be
     actuated together at the same time, or where there are multiple sensors, for example one
25   for each sensing member 6, then a decision can be made with straightforward logic to
     operate both, or one member 10 independently. For example if one sensing member 6A is
     deflected, but not the other 6b, then the member 10 corresponding to that side only may
     be operated.
30   In the preferred form as described the members 10 then till the ground about the plants 2
     as the apparatus is moved. This severs or disrupts any non-desired plants 2A, and when
     a desired plant 2B is sensed, they move outwardly to avoid the plant 2B. This also moves
     soil about aerating it and forms mounds 15 about the base of the plant 2B.
35   In addition to this there may be further members, static or otherwise that help move the
     soil and direct it as needed. For example a pair of guide paddles 20 or hilling units at the
     rear as shown in Figures 1 and 2 downstream of the near ground members may help

  WO 2015/009170                                                             PCT/NZ2014/000148
                                                     12
     further direct the soil, for example to further mound it up by the plants. In other
     embodiments there are other fixed components or static members also, such as leading
     hoes 23 as shown. These can be interchanged with other plant, ground or soil engaging
     equipment such, as needed, for example spring torsion rods, which under their own
 5   tension move around the desired plant, whilst helping to bring cut off weeds to the
     surface, these tension rods would be in a horizontal position in place of the hillers 20, and
     would be ground engaging below the surface. Hoes such as this have the advantage of
     maintaining an even or consistent depth of the machine and its ground engaging parts.
     The hoes also have the advantage of keeping the area before the active ground engaging
10   members level and so aid the effectiveness of these.
     In other forms the members 10 may have other additional or other functionality, for
     example they may contain a spray for applying fertiliser or similar to or near the plant, for
     vine, tree, or stem growth vigour control, or debudding or pruning grape vines or similar.
15   For those plants that are allowed some herbicide then there may be spot application of a
     small accurate amount. In still other forms the functionality may perform further actions on
     the plant such as trimming or other plant treatment necessary. In other forms of the
     invention data may be stored of the exact location of each desired plant 2A and its size at
     a point in time. For example the sensed deflection may in addition be stored with the
20   GPS co-ordinates and time of that sensed deflection. This can be used to build a data
     base of the plants and the establishment of the crop. This database can then be used for
     many purposes, including, but not limited to, precision application of fertiliser (eg for
     underperforming plants), or trimming of oversized plants, or help direct future cultivation
     and harvesting. Such database could be stored locally or to the cloud.
25
     It is possible the sensing system alone (sensing member(s) 6, and sensors and controlling
     system) could be used to simply count nursery stock with no engagement of the ground or
     similar.
30   Optionally also there may be a second sensing means, which senses generally the
     presence of a plant (desired or otherwise) and arms the system. The first sensor may be
     electrical, for example a proximity, Hall-effect or sensor or micro-switch, or may be
     mechanical and uses a lever system to open and close the members 10.
35   The prime mover 4 could be a tractor or similar propulsion, but also may be hand or
     animal drawn, and uses a power take off to power on-board systems, or may use solar
     power to power on-board systems. In other embodiments the apparatus may generate

 WO 2015/009170                                                          PCT/NZ2014/000148
                                                 13
    power for sensing and actuation through its movement, for example by use of a ground
    engaging follower wheel to generate mechanical or electrical energy.
    The apparatus may also have a cover to protect the inner workings as well as protect
 5  users from injuring themselves, or tangling or otherwise.
    There may also be a plurality of units drawn behind the prime mover to effect two or more
    rows of plants.
10  The foregoing description of the invention includes preferred forms thereof. Modifications
    may be made thereto without departing from the scope of the invention.

  WO 2015/009170                                                             PCT/NZ2014/000148
                                                    14
     CLAIMS
     1. A plant maintenance apparatus adapted to be moved in a direction of movement
         adjacent to or along a plant, said apparatus comprising or including,
 5           A support frame for connection to a prime mover to enable at least said
     movement,
             At least one sensing member, mounted from said frame, to contact and be
     deflected by said plant as said apparatus is moved,
             A first sensor to sense said deflection and if said deflection is above a threshold
10   issue a signal to an actuator,
             At least one near ground member, mounted from said frame and moving therewith,
     said at least one near ground member acted on by said actuator, such that when said
     threshold is met said at least one near ground member moves to a first position away from
     said plant when immediately adjacent thereto, and then moves to a second position once
15   past said plant,
             Such that said at least one near ground member can treat a ground or soil or
     otherwise at or near a plant at least when in said second position, including disturbing any
     non-desired plants on said ground, whilst moving away from and not disturbing said plant
     which is sensed and above said threshold when in said first position.
20
     2. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein there is a pair of said at least one sensing
         members, adapted to locate either side of said plants, and drive said first sensor.
     3. Apparatus as claimed in claim 2 wherein each said sensing member drives its own
25       said first sensor.
     4. Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 o 3 wherein said plant is part of a line or
         row of plants.
30   5. Apparatus as claimed in claim 4 wherein said line of plants is substantially aligned in a
         straight line.
     6. Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein said apparatus when being
         moved adjacent or along said plant has a line of said movement along a centre line of
35       said plant.
     7. Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6 wherein there is a guide throat

  WO 2015/009170                                                           PCT/NZ2014/000148
                                                    15
          mounted from said support frame to guide said plant to said at least one sensing
          member.
     8. Apparatus as claimed in claim 7 wherein said guide throat lifts any foliage of said plant
 5       clear of said ground.
     9. Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 8 wherein said at least one sensing
          member is pivotally mounted from said support frame.
10   10. Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 2 to 9 when dependent on claim 2, wherein
         said deflection of one or both said pair of sensing members is detected and used to
          measure said threshold.
     11. Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 10 wherein there is a pair of said near
15       ground members.
     12. Apparatus as claimed in claim 11 wherein said near ground members can be actuated
         independent of, or together with, each other.
20   13. Apparatus as claimed in either of claims 11 or 12 wherein each of said pair of near
         ground members is located one either side of said plants.
     14. Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 13 wherein said near ground member
         is a ground engaging member to till said ground, and disturb any said non-desired
25       plants.
     15. Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 14 wherein said disturbing is by
         burying, removing from said ground, severing, or otherwise destroying said non
         desired plant.
30
     16. Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 15 wherein said near ground member
         moves at least some of said ground to around a base of said plant.
     17. Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 16 wherein said near ground
35       member(s) may otherwise apply a chemical, or perform an operation on said desired
         plant.
     18. Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 17 wherein a timing between sensing

  WO 2015/009170                                                             PCT/NZ2014/000148
                                                    16
         said threshold and actuation of said near ground member is adjustable.
     19. Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 18 wherein said first sensor is
         electrical, for example proximity, Hall-effect, micro-switch, or other sensor.
 5
     20. Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 18 wherein said first sensor is
         mechanical.
     21. Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 20 wherein said actuator is an air ram
10       to move said near ground member to said first position, or to said second position, to
         work against a biasing return means to said second position or said first position.
     22. Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 21 wherein there is a second sensor
         forward with respect to said direction of movement which senses a presence of a said
15       plant and arms said first sensor and/or actuator.
     23. Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 18 wherein said near ground
         member(s) is/are mounted on said support frame such that at least an acting or
         effective part thereof moves substantially perpendicular to said direction of movement.
20
     24. Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 23 wherein said near ground
         member(s) are mounted pivotally or slidably on or from said support frame.
     25. Apparatus as claimed in claim 23 wherein said acting or effective part moves in a
25       substantially horizontal direction.
     26. Apparatus as claimed in claim 14 wherein said ground engaging member(s) at least in
         part locate beneath a surface of said ground to till or hoe said soil.
30   27. Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 26 wherein there is a plurality of said
         apparatus connected to said prime mover to be moved along one or more lines of said
         plants at a time.
     28. Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 23 wherein said apparatus includes
35       adjustment of said support frame relative to said prime mover perpendicular to said
         direction of movement, to adjust for a desired height and or width relative said prime
         mover or ground.

  WO 2015/009170                                                           PCT/NZ2014/000148
                                                   17
     29. Apparatus as claimed in claim 28 wherein said adjustment is a sliding tool bar for
         mounting and adjusting said apparatus or said plurality thereof.
     30. Apparatus as claimed in 28 or 29 wherein said adjustment can be controlled manually
 5       or automatically.
     31. Apparatus as claimed in claim 30 wherein said automatic adjustment is achieved
         through GPS or infrared cameras.
10   32. Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 31 where data from at least said first
         sensor(s) is recorded, with GPS co-ordinates and time to load into a database about
         said plant or plants.
     33. Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 32 wherein there are additional static
15       members to affect said plant(s) or ground as said apparatus is moved.
     34. A method of maintaining plants comprising or including the steps of,
             Moving a support frame connected to a prime mover along a line of plants,
             Sensing at least one of said plants by at least one sensing member contacting and
20   being deflected by at least one of said plants, said at least one sensing member being
     mounted from said frame,
             Signalling an actuator to actuate at least one near ground member if said
     deflection is above a threshold,
             Wherein said at least one near ground member, mounted from said frame and
25   moving therewith, is moved when said threshold is met to a first position away from said
     plant when immediately adjacent thereto, and then moves to a second position back again
     once past said plant,
             Such that said at least one near ground member can treat a ground or soil at or
     near a plant, including disturbing any non-desired plants on said ground, whilst moving
30   away from and not disturbing said plant which is sensed and above said threshold.
     35. A method as claimed in claim 34 wherein there is a a pair of said at least one sensing
         member, adapted to locate either side of said plants.
35   36. A method as claimed in either of claims 34 or 35 wherein said plant is part of a line or
         row of plants.
     37. A method as claimed in claim 46 wherein said line of plants are substantially aligned in

  WO 2015/009170                                                             PCT/NZ2014/000148
                                                     18
         a straight line.
     38. A method as claimed in any one of claims 34 to 37 wherein said movement adjacent
 5       or along said line of plants has a line of said movement along a centre line of said
         plants.
     39. A method as claimed in any one of claims 34 to 38 including providing a guide throat
         mounted from said support frame to guide said plant to said at least one sensing
10       member.
     40. A method as claimed in claim 39 wherein said guide throat lifts any foliage of said
         plant clear of said ground.
15   41. A method as claimed in any one of claims 34 to 40 wherein said at least one sensing
         member is pivotally mounted from said support frame.
     42. A method as claimed in any one of claims 35 to 41 when dependent on claim 35,
         wherein said deflection of both said pair of sensing members is detected and used to
20       measure said threshold.
     43. A method as claimed in any one of claims 34 to 42 wherein said near ground
         members are ground engaging members to till said ground, and disturb any said non
         desired plants.
25
     44. A method as claimed in any one of claims 34 to 43 wherein said disturbing is by
         burying, removing from said ground, severing, or otherwise destroying said non
         desired plant.
30   45. A method as claimed in any one of claims 34 to 44 wherein said near ground
         members move at least some of said ground to around a base of said plant.
     46. A method as claimed in any one of claims 34 to 45 wherein a timing between sensing
         said threshold and actuation of said near ground member is adjustable.
35
     47. A method as claimed in any one of claims 34 to 46 wherein said first sensor is
         electrical, for example proximity, Hall-effect, micro-switch, or other sensor.

  WO 2015/009170                                                            PCT/NZ2014/000148
                                                   19
     48. A method as claimed in any one of claims 34 to 46 wherein said first sensor is
         mechanical.
 5   49. A method as claimed in any one of claims 34 to 48 wherein said actuator is an air ram
         to move said near ground members to said first position, or to said second position, to
         work against a biasing return means to said second position or said first position.
     50. A method as claimed in any one of claims 34 to 49 wherein there is a second sensor
10       forward with respect to said direction of movement which senses a presence of a said
         plant and arms said first sensor and/or actuator.
     51. A method as claimed in any one of claims 34 to 50 wherein said near ground
         members are mounted on said support frame such that at least an acting or effective
15       part thereof moves substantially perpendicular to said direction of movement.
     52. A method as claimed in any one of claims 34 to 51 wherein said near ground
         members are mounted pivotally or slidably on or from said support frame.
20   53. A method as claimed in claim 51 wherein said acting or effective part moves in a
         substantially horizontal direction.
     54. A method as claimed in claim 43 wherein said ground engaging members at least in
         part locate beneath a surface of said ground to till or hoe said soil.
25
     55. A method as claimed in any one of claims 34 to 54 wherein there is a plurality of said
         steps are performed behind said prime mover to be moved along two or more lines of
         said plants at a time.
30   56. A method as claimed in any one of claims 34 to 55 wherein said method includes
         adjustment of said support frame relative to said prime mover perpendicular to said
         direction of movement, to adjust for a desired height and or width relative said prime
         mover or ground.
35   57. A method as claimed in claim 56 wherein said adjustment is a sliding tool bar for
         mounting and adjusting said apparatus or said plurality thereof.
     58. A method as claimed in 56 or 57 wherein said adjustment can be controlled manually
         or automatically.

 WO 2015/009170                                                       PCT/NZ2014/000148
                                               20
    59. A method as claimed in claim 28 wherein said automatic adjustment is achieved
        through GPS or infrared cameras.
 5  60. A plant maintenance apparatus as described herein with reference to any one or
        more of the accompanying drawings.
    61. A method of maintaining plants as described herein with reference to any one or
        more of the accompanying drawings.
10

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2014290850, is current as of 2018-04-05 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2014290850, is current as of 2018-04-05 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2014290850, is current as of 2018-04-05 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2014290850, is current as of 2018-04-05 21:00 AEST

