ABSTRACT
Lyophilized composition, characterized in that it comprises:
           (a) metal powder, where said metal is selected from among Au, Ag, Pt and Rh;
           (b) graphene;
           (c) silica;
           (d) resin; and
           (e) a biological sample of a subject, where said biological sample is dry.

                               LYOPHILIZED COMPOSITION
   [0001] The present invention relates to a composition comprising resin, metal selected
          from among Au, Ag, Pt and Rh, graphene and a sample of biological material
 5        from a person, animal or plant, alive or dead. Furthermore, the invention relates
          to the use of said composition for the manufacturing of an emotional object, of
          keepsake or reliquary.
   [0002] The composition of the invention has the purpose of the creation of an
          emotional link between an object comprising said composition and the user who
10        wants to acquire it, and where said composition has conductive properties for
          its digital use.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
15 [0003] At present there are different products relating to the homage and memory of
          living beings, whether people or pets, especially when they have died. Said
          products are traditionally created by hair, teeth and other parts or tissues,
          belonging to the loved one to be remembered.
20 [0004] However, so far no composition has been developed based on the "essence" of
          the loved one in various forms or presentations.
   DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
25 [0005] The present invention provides a composition characterized in that it comprises
          resin, metal selected from among Au, Ag, Pt and Rh, graphene and a biological
          sample of a subject, whether alive or dead, where said biological sample is dry.
          Said composition has the purpose of the manufacturing of an emotional object
          or reliquary.
30
   [0006] The advantage obtained by the use of the emotional composition of the present
          invention compared with the others described in the state of the art is the
          capacity for personalization and the homogeneous appearance both of the
          composition and the object formed with the composition. Another advantage
35        consists of the preservation of biological material of the subject, alive or dead,
          which forms part of the emotional link between said subject and the person who
                                               1

          wears or possesses said lyophilized emotional composition. Furthermore, said
          composition has conductivity which allows its use as a digital element.
   [0007] Therefore, a first aspect of the invention relates to a lyophilized emotional
 5        composition characterized in that it comprises:
          metal powder, where said metal is selected from among Au, Ag, Pt and Rh;
          graphene;
          silica;
          resin; and
10        a biological sample of a subject, where said biological sample is dry.
   [0008] In a preferred embodiment, the subject is a live subject.
   [0009] In a preferred embodiment, the subject is a dead subject.
15
   [0010] In   a   preferred  embodiment,     the   lyophilized  emotional   composition    is
          characterized in that the resin has a particle size less than 0.002 millimetres
          and where the biological sample has a particle size less than 0.02 mm, this
          preferred embodiment is suitable for obtaining a suitable composition with
20        optimum particle sizes for its use as 3D printer ink, since with this particle size
          of the lyophilized emotional composition it is thus optimized for its extrusion at
          pressures of 4 bars from the pressurized chamber of a 3D printer.
   [0011] In another preferred embodiment, the lyophilized emotional composition is
25        characterized in that the resin is selected from the list comprising: epoxy resins,
          photosensitive resins and any combination of the above.
   [0012] In a more preferred embodiment, the lyophilized emotional composition is
          characterized in that the resin is epoxy resin.
30
   [0013] In another preferred embodiment, the lyophilized emotional composition is
          characterized in that the biological sample is selected from the list comprising:
          micronized hair, micronized tissue, micronized cornea, tissue from micronized
          cornea, micronized nails, micronized teeth, DNA lyophilized with silica, non
35        lyophilized DNA and any combination of the above.
   [0014] In a more preferred embodiment, the lyophilized emotional composition is
          characterized in that the biological sample is micronized hair.
                                                2

   [0015] In another more preferred embodiment, the lyophilized emotional composition is
          characterized in that the biological sample is DNA lyophilized with silica.
 5 [0016] In another more preferred embodiment, the lyophilized emotional composition is
          characterized in that the biological sample is non-lyophilized DNA.
   [0017] In another preferred embodiment, the lyophilized emotional composition is
          characterized in that the sum of the volume of the resin, the silicon, and the
10        biological sample is a fraction of 1/3 of the volume with respect to the volume of
          the final composition.
   [0018] In another preferred embodiment, the lyophilized emotional composition is
          characterized in that the metal powder is a fraction of 1/3 of the volume with
15        respect to the volume of the final composition.
   [0019] In another preferred embodiment, the lyophilized emotional composition is
          characterized in that the metal powder is of Au and more preferably the volume
          of the Au powder is a fraction of 1/3 in the composition with respect to the total
20        volume of the final composition.
   [0020] In another preferred embodiment, the lyophilized emotional composition is
          characterized in that the volume of the graphene is a fraction of 1/3 with respect
          to the total volume of the final composition.
25
   [0021] In another preferred embodiment, the lyophilized emotional composition is
          characterized in that the subject is human or animal.
   [0022] In another more preferred embodiment, the emotional composition is in solid
30        form and also comprises an outer layer (c) of enamel, where said outer layer of
          enamel is suitable for the case that the composition is used as a ceramic figure
          or element or three-dimensional figure or element obtained from 3D printing.
          This enamel is added so that the pores generated during said firing process are
          occluded with said enamel giving uniformity and rigidity to the final ceramic
35        element or figure or three-dimensional figure or element obtained from 3D
          printing. This enamel is added after firing in a conventional furnace of the
          emotional composition at a temperature of between 800         0C and 900    0C and
                                                3

          prior to a second firing in a conventional furnace at a temperature of between
          1000 C and 1060 0C.
   [0023] An even more preferred embodiment of the composition, where the layer of
 5        enamel is a resin selected from the following list: epoxy resin, photosensitive
          resin or any combination of the above.
   [0024] Another aspect of the present invention relates to an element or figure
          comprising a composition as described in the present invention.
10
   [0025] Another aspect of the present invention relates to an element or figure
          comprising a composition comprising an outer layer of enamel, which is
          preferably a resin selected from the following list: epoxy resin, photosensitive
          resin or any combination of the above, and which is mounted on a support.
15
   [0026] A preferred embodiment of the present invention is the element or figure where
          said element or figure is three-dimensional.
   [0027] Another aspect of the present invention relates to the use of the composition
20        described above as ink of a 3D printer to obtain a three-dimensional element or
          figure. Preferably, the three-dimensional element or figure is a reliquary.
   [0028] Another aspect of the present invention relates to the use of the aforementioned
          composition for the manufacturing of a reliquary.
25
   [0029] A more preferred embodiment is the use of the three-dimensional element or
          figure, or ceramic figure, already enamelled, mounted on the corresponding
          supports.
30 [0030] In the present invention "lyophilized emotional composition" is understood as all
          compositions comprising a biological sample isolated from a live or dead
          (deceased) subject, and which is preferably lyophilized at a temperature of
          between -90 0C and -40 C.
35 [0031] In the present invention "biological sample" is understood as all those samples
          of wet and dry biological material obtained from members or part of members,
          tissues, hair, nails, teeth, DNA or lyophilized DNA, from any human or animal,
          or material from a plant, which can be human, animal or plant, whether alive or
                                               4

          dead. This biological sample is dry and ground until a micrometric size. This
          micronizing can be performed          by a cryogenic grinder, this process is
          advantageous since given the organic characteristics of the sample, it is an
          affordable and profitable way to achieve the base of the composition of the
 5        invention and of the final object with the suitable calibre and appearance
          characteristics.
   [0032] In the present invention "DNA lyophilized with silica" is understood as all
          biological samples where the DNA is extracted by techniques known by a
10        person skilled in the art and which later undergo a lyophilization process in
          silica. The lyophilization process consists of subjecting a sample to a quick
          cooling process and to a vacuum achieving that the water directly evaporates
          and dehydrates the sample. With this process we manage to maintain the
          sample with its organoleptic conditions for long periods of time at the same time
15        as we generate the bonding of the different particles that form the substance;
          this bond is electrostatic, the so-called Van Der Waals forces and which include
          attractions between atoms, molecules and surfaces. They differ from the
          covalent bond and the ionic bond in that they are caused by correlations in the
          fluctuating polarizations of nearby particles (due to quantum dynamics).
20
   [0033] The final composition is frozen at a temperature between -90'C and -70     0C,  and
          it is introduced in the "Cryodos" apparatus (a laboratory lyophilizer) where it is
          subjected to a vacuum process at temperatures less than -90          0C  to -40  0C
          during a period of 5-6 hours. With this process, we perform an electrostatic
25        bond of all the particles that form the composition.
   [0034] Throughout the description and the claims, the word "comprises" and its
          variants are not intended to exclude other technical characteristics, additives,
          components or steps. For persons skilled in the art, other objects, advantages
30        and characteristics of the invention will be inferred in part from the description
          and in part from the practice of the invention. The following examples are
          provided by way of illustration and it is not intended that they are limitative of
          the present invention.
35 PREFERRED EMBODIMENT OF THE INVENTION
   [0035] A detailed explanation is provided         below of an example of preferred
          embodiment of the object of the present invention.
                                                 5

   [0036] Preparation of a figure with a base of resin, silica, gold powder, graphene, and
          a biological sample.
 5 [0037] The biological sample is DNA lyophilized in silica, which will follow a previous
          process described with the object of obtaining a material from which functional
          DNA can be recovered if necessary, without prejudice of using non-functional
          DNA substances for purposes other than healthcare or the conservation of
          genetic material through the lyophilized emotional composition object of the
10        present utility model.
   [0038] For the variant of genetic material, what we want to achieve is a DNA
          conservation and display material; since it is not possible to see the DNA with
          the naked eye, it is necessary to subject it to a series of molecular processes to
15        manage to detect it. What we do is treat the DNA in two stages with
          microparticles of silica, graphene and gold powder with an amino acid buffer,
          such as arginine or glycine, among others, during hours and with stirring in the
          first of the stages. These amino acids help in bonding the silica to the DNA. We
          remove the excess silica particles or centrifuged DNA and wash with the same
20        amino acid buffer. The resulting product is a liquid sample of the DNA bound to
          the silica, to the naked eye we see a whitish liquid. In this point the second
          stage starts,     consisting of mixing the       liquid with graphene and      gold
          microparticles, generating a greyish substance with gold hues; the graphene
          and the gold have the function of giving structural consistency and conductivity
25        to the definitive material.
   [0039] With the bonding process of the DNA to the silica, what we want to achieve is a
          DNA conservation and display material; since it is not possible to see the DNA
          with the naked eye, it is necessary to subject it to a series of molecular
30        processes to manage to detect it.
   [0040] The first thing to do is treat at least 100 ng of DNA with 2 mg of silica
          microparticles in   1 5 0pl of amino acid buffer, such as arginine or glycine. This
          amino acid buffer must be at a concentration of 100mM in a Tris-EDTA solution
35        and adjusted to pH 5. We stir the mixture at 10 Hz during 2 hours at ambient
          temperature in the "Thermo-shaker TS-100". In this process, the buffer's amino
          acids help the bonding of the silica to the DNA. After 2 hours we centrifuge the
                                                6

          DNA samples with silica immersed in the amino acid buffer, leaving the DNA
          bound to the silica particles.
   [0041] The graphene is added to said liquid in a proportion of 1/3 of the final volume,
 5        the gold powder in a proportion of 1/3 of the final volume and the resin until
          completing 1/3 of final volume together with the DNA and the silicon, and it is
          mixed by stirring; the end substance is the liquid we subject to the lyophilization
          process.
10 [0042] The DNA deposited in silica is previously frozen at around -80'C and we
          introduce it in the "Cryodos" apparatus (a laboratory lyophilizer, where we
          subject it to a vacuum process at a temperature of -80'C during a period of 5.5
          hours. With this process we perform an electrostatic bond of all the particles
          that form the base material generating the lyophilized emotional composition.
15
   [0043] The final piece is mounted on the corresponding supports.
                                              7

                                             CLAIMS
   1. Lyophilized composition, characterized in that it comprises:
               (a) metal powder, where said metal is selected from among Au, Ag, Pt and
 5                 Rh;
               (b) graphene;
               (c) silica;
               (d) resin; and
               (e) a biological sample of a subject, where said biological sample is dry.
10
   2. Composition according to claim 1, where the subject is a live subject.
   3. Composition according to claim 1, where the subject is a dead subject.
15 4. Composition according to any of claims 1 to 3, where the resin is selected from the
   list comprising: epoxy resins, photosensitive resins and any combination of the above.
   5. Composition according to any of claims 1 to 4, where the metal powder is Au.
20 6. Composition according to any of claims 1 to 5, where the resin is epoxy resin.
   7. Composition according to any of claims 1 to 6, where the biological sample is
   selected from the list comprising: micronized hair, micronized tissue, micronized
   cornea, tissue from micronized cornea, micronized nails, micronized teeth, DNA
25 lyophilized with silica, non-lyophilized DNA, plant tissue and combinations thereof.
   8. Composition according to any of claims 1 to 7, where the biological sample is
   micronized hair.
30 9. Composition according to any of claims 1 to 7, where the biological sample is DNA
   lyophilized with silica.
   10. Composition according to any of claims 1 to 7, where the biological sample is non
   lyophilized DNA.
35
   11. Composition according to any of claims 1 to 10, where the sum of the volume of the
   resin, the silicon, and the biological sample is a fraction of 1/3 of the volume with
   respect to the volume of the final composition.
                                                8

   12. Composition according to any of claims 1 to 11, where the metal powder is a
   fraction of 1/3 of the volume with respect to the volume of the final composition.
 5 13. Composition according to any of claims 1 to 12, where the graphene is a fraction of
   1/3 of the volume with respect to the volume of the final composition.
   14. Composition according to any of claims 1, 3 to 13, where the dead subject is
   human or animal.
10
   15. Composition according to any of claims 1 to 14, where said composition comprises
   an outer layer of enamel.
   16. Composition according to claim 15, where the layer of enamel is a resin selected
15 from the following list: epoxy resin, photosensitive resin or any combination of the
   above.
   17. Element or figure comprising a composition according to any of claims 1 to 16.
20 18. Element or figure comprising a composition according to any of claims 15 or 16 and
   which is mounted on a support.
   19. Element or figure according to any of claims 17 or 18, where the element or figure
   is three-dimensional.
25
   20. Use of the composition described according to any of claims 1 to 16, for the
   manufacturing of a reliquary.
   21. Use of the composition described according to any of claims 1 to 14, as ink of a 3D
30 printer to obtain a three-dimensional element or figure.
   22. Use according to claim 21, where the three-dimensional element or figure is a
   reliquary.
35 23. Use according to any of claims 19 or 21, where the three-dimensional element or
   figure or ceramic figure, already enamelled, is mounted on the corresponding supports.
                                                9

