ABSTRACT
A crossing member (32) disposed along a vehicle width direction between inflected portions of
side members (28) is capable of transmitting load from one of the side members to the other of
the side members when the one side member deforms toward a vehicle width direction inward.
Accordingly, when collision load is input due to an offset collision or the like, the collision load
is transmitted from the one side member input with the collision load to the other side member
through the crossing member, and the collision load is supported by the other side member.
Fig. 3

             3/9
        C~'N
    CCD
_                00
  CYCD
                  (Y)

                                                  -1
                           VEHICLE LOWER SECTION STRUCTURE
Field of the Invention
[0001]     The present disclosure relates to a vehicle lower section structure.
Background of the Invention
[0002]     Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be
considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of common
general knowledge in the field.
[0003]     Japanese Patent Application Laid-Open (JP-A) No. 2010-179898 describes an
invention relating to a vehicle body front section structure of a vehicle. This vehicle body front
section structure of a vehicle includes a pair of front side frames extending in a vehicle front
rear direction, and a pair of floor frames extending in the vehicle front-rear direction. The floor
frames are provided so as to continue from vehicle rear end portions of the respective front
side frames, and are disposed at a vehicle lower side of a floor panel. Namely, part of a
vehicle body frame extending in the vehicle front-rear direction is configured by the front side
frames and the floor frames. Moreover, a floor sub frame extends from a length direction
central portion of each floor frame toward a tunnel section provided to the floor panel. Vehicle
rear end portions of the floor sub frames are coupled together by reinforcement disposed
straddling the tunnel section. Accordingly, the technology described in JP-A No. 2010-179898
enables the rigidity of the vehicle body with respect to collision load in a frontal collision or the
like to be improved.
[0004]     However, in JP-A No. 2010-179898, each of the front side frames extends along the
vehicle front-rear direction in a straight line, whereas the floor frames extend so as to spread
out from the vehicle rear end portions of the respective front side frames toward the vehicle
width direction outward. Accordingly, when collision load due to an offset collision or the like is
input to the vehicle, it is conceivable that stress might concentrate at a connection portion
between the front side frame and the floor frame, consequently causing the vehicle body frame
extending in the vehicle front-rear direction to undergo folding deformation so as to protrude
toward the vehicle width direction inward. Namely, the technology in JP-A No. 2010-179898
leaves room for improvement regarding the point of suppressing deformation of a vehicle body
frame extending in the vehicle front-rear direction such that the vehicle body frame protrudes

                                                  -2
toward the vehicle width direction inward as a result of collision load in an offset collision or the
like.
[0005]     In cases in which the technology in JP-A No. 2010-179898 is applied to a vehicle
body of an electric vehicle, it is preferable to be able to secure a large space at a vehicle lower
side of the floor panel in which to dispose a power supply section such as a battery that
supplies power to a power unit. However, in JP-A No. 2010-179898, the floor sub frames and
reinforcement are disposed at the vehicle lower side of the floor panel, thus leaving room for
improvement regarding the point of securing a large space in which to dispose a power supply
section.
Summary of the Invention
[0006]     It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least one of the
disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.
[0007]     In a first aspect, the invention provides a vehicle lower section structure comprising:
           a floor panel configuring part of a floor section of a vehicle body having a
monocoque structure;
           a pair of left and right side members configuring part of a frame extending in a
vehicle front-rear direction of the vehicle body, each side member including:
           a side member front extending straight along the vehicle front-rear direction as
viewed along a vehicle vertical direction, and
           a side member rear joined to the floor panel at a vehicle lower side of the floor panel,
and provided with an inflected portion extending from the side member front so as to spread
out toward a vehicle width direction outward as viewed along the vehicle vertical direction;
           a power supply section disposed between the side members at a vehicle lower side
of the floor panel and configured to supply power to a power unit installed at the vehicle; and
           a crossing section running along the vehicle width direction between the inflected
portions and configured to transmit load from one of the side members to the other of the side
members in a case in which the one side member deforms toward the vehicle width direction
inward.
[0008]     Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the
claims, the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an inclusive
sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the sense of
"including, but not limited to".

                                                   -3
[0009]     According to the first aspect described above, preferably part of the floor section of
the vehicle body having a monocoque structure is configured by the floor panel, and part of the
frame extending in the vehicle front-rear direction of the vehicle body is configured by the pair
of left and right side members, each of which includes the side member front and the side
member rear. Moreover, each side member rear is joined to the floor panel at the vehicle
lower side of the floor panel, and the power supply section is disposed between the side
members at the vehicle lower side of the floor panel. The power supply section is capable of
supplying power to the power unit installed to the vehicle.
[0010]      Note that in the present disclosure, each side member rear is provided with the
inflected portion extending from the side member front so as to spread out toward the vehicle
width direction outward as viewed along the vehicle vertical direction. Accordingly, a space
that is between the side members and at the vehicle lower side of the floor panel, namely a
space in which the power supply section is disposed, can be made larger than in a
configuration in which the side member rear continues to extend straight toward the vehicle
rear from the side member fronts.
[0011]      Note that as viewed along the vehicle vertical direction, each of the side members
extends straight along the vehicle front-rear direction at the side member front portion;
however, the side members are bent toward the vehicle width direction outward as described
above at the locations provided with the inflected portions. Note that here, "straight " also
encompasses states in which the side member fronts extend at a slight angle toward the
vehicle width direction. Accordingly, when collision load is input to the vehicle in an offset
collision or the like, it is conceivable that the side member might deform so as to protrude
toward the vehicle width direction inward at the inflected portion.
[0012]      However, in the present disclosure, when one of the side members deforms toward
the vehicle width direction inward, advantageously load can be transmitted from the one side
member to the other side member through the crossing section disposed along the vehicle
width direction between the inflected portions of the side members. Accordingly, when
collision load is input to the vehicle in an offset collision or the like, the collision load is
transmitted from the one side member into which the collision load was input to the other side
member through the crossing section, and the collision load is supported by the other side
member.

                                                   -4
[0013]      A second aspect of the present disclosure is the vehicle lower section structure of
the first aspect, further including a torque box disposed at the vehicle width direction outer side
of the side member, wherein a vertical wall of the torque box at the vehicle rear of the torque
box as viewed along the vehicle width direction is disposed at a position overlapping with a
vertical wall at the vehicle rear of the crossing section, and is joined to the side member and to
a rocker extending in the vehicle front-rear direction along a peripheral edge on the vehicle
width direction outer side of the floor panel.
[0014]      According to the second aspect, the torque box is disposed at the vehicle width
direction outer side of the side member, and the torque box isjoined to the side member and
to the rocker extending in the vehicle front-rear direction along the peripheral edge on the
vehicle width direction outer side of the floor panel. Accordingly, collision load input to the side
member in an offset collision or the like is dispersed into the rocker through the torque box.
[0015]      Note that in an offset collision of the vehicle, it is conceivable that a front wheel
moving under collision load might impact a vehicle front portion of the rocker. In such an
event, it is conceivable that a moment might arise in the torque box about an axis in the vehicle
vertical direction so as to pivot about a vehicle front portion of the joint portion between the
torque box and the rocker, and that this moment would act on as a bending moment on the
side members.
[0016]      However, in the present disclosure, as viewed along the vehicle width direction, the
vertical wall at the vehicle rear of the torque box is disposed at a position overlapping with the
vertical wall at the vehicle rear of the crossing section. Note that here, "overlapping positions"
encompass not only a position where the vertical wall of the torque box and the vertical wall of
the crossing section overlap fully, but also positions where the vertical wall of the torque box
and the vertical wall of the crossing section are offset in the vehicle front-rear direction such
that they partially overlap, and positions in which they intersect so as to partially overlap.
Accordingly, a moment arising in the torque box due to the front wheel moving under the
collision load is countered by the vertical wall of the torque box being supported by the vertical
wall of the crossing section through the side member.
[0017]      A third aspect of the present disclosure is the vehicle lower section structure of either
the first aspect or the second aspect, wherein as viewed along the vehicle width direction, a
lower side wall configuring the vehicle lower side of the crossing section is disposed so as to
overlap with a lower wall configuring a vehicle lower side portion of the side member, or is

                                                   -5
coupled to the lower wall. The load can be transmitted from the lower wall to the lower side
wall.
[0018]     According to the third aspect described above, as viewed along the vehicle width
direction, the lower side wall configuring the vehicle lower side of the crossing section is
disposed so as to overlap with the lower wall configuring the vehicle lower side portion of the
side member, or is coupled to the lower wall. When one of the side members deforms toward
the vehicle width direction inward, load can be transmitted from the lower wall of that side
member to the lower side wall of the crossing section. Accordingly, when collision load is input
to the vehicle in an offset collision or the like, the lower wall of the side member is supported
by the lower side wall of the crossing section, and as a result, a moment about an axis along
the vehicle front-rear direction can be suppressed from arising in the side member.
[0019]     A fourth aspect of the present disclosure is the vehicle lower section structure of any
one of the first aspect to the third aspect, wherein a reinforcement section serving as the
crossing section is disposed inside a battery case configuring an outer shell of the power
supply section. The reinforcement section is configured so as to deform less readily than the
battery case with respect to the load.
[0020]     According to the fourth aspect, the reinforcement section running along the vehicle
width direction between the inflected portions of the side members is disposed inside the
battery case configuring the outer shell of the power supply section. Moreover, the
reinforcement section is configured so as to deform less readily than the battery case with
respect to the load input when one of the side members deforms toward the vehicle width
direction inward. Note that here, "deform less readily" means that were loads of equivalent
magnitude toward the vehicle width direction inward to be input to the reinforcement section
and the battery case respectively, a displacement amount (deformation stroke) from an initial
position of a vehicle width direction outer side end portion of the reinforcement section would
be smaller than a displacement amount from an initial position of a vehicle width direction outer
side portion of the battery case.
[0021]     Accordingly, a load transmission path from one side member to the other side
member when the one side member deforms toward the vehicle width direction inward is
configured by the reinforcement section, enabling the load to be supported by the other side
member.

                                                   -6
[0022]     A fifth aspect of the present disclosure is the vehicle lower section structure of the
fourth aspect, wherein the battery case is fixed to a lower wall configuring a vehicle lower side
portion of the side member via a fastening member.
[0023]     According to the fifth aspect, the battery case is fixed to the lower wall configuring
the vehicle lower side portion of the side member using the fastening member, such that a
fixing operation is rendered easier than in cases in which, for example, the battery case is fixed
to a side wall of the side member. Note that it is conceivable that stress might concentrate at
the fastening location of the fastening member as a result of compression load or tensile load
acting on the side wall of the side member when the side member deforms as a result of
collision load in an offset collision or the like. Regarding this point, in the present disclosure,
stress can be suppressed from concentrating at the fastening location of the fastening member
by fixing the battery case to the lower wall of the side member as described above.
[0024]     A sixth aspect of the present disclosure is the vehicle lower section structure of any
one of the first aspect to the fifth aspect, wherein as viewed along the vehicle vertical direction,
the crossing section is disposed on a straight line connecting an inflection point between the
side member front and the side member rear of one of the side members to an inflection point
between the side member front and the side member rear of the other of the side members.
[0025]     According to the sixth aspect described above, as viewed along the vehicle vertical
direction, the one side member is bent toward the vehicle width direction outward about a
boundary at the inflection point between the side member front and the side member rear of
the one side member. Moreover, as viewed along the vehicle vertical direction, the other side
member is bent toward the vehicle width direction outward about a boundary at the inflection
point between the side member front and the side member rear of the other side member.
Accordingly, were the crossing section not provided, when collision load is input to either the
side member on one side or the side member on the other side in an offset collision or the like,
the side member into which the collision load was input would undergo folding deformation
originating at the inflection point.
[0026]      However, in the present disclosure, as viewed along the vehicle vertical direction, the
crossing section is disposed on the straight line connecting the inflected portions together.
Accordingly, when one or the other side member is input with collision load in an offset
collision or the like, the side member input with collision load can be supported at a location
where deformation would otherwise originate.

                                                    -7
[0027]      A seventh aspect of the invention provides a vehicle lower section structure
comprising:
            a floor panel configuring part of a floor section of a vehicle body having a
monocoque structure;
            a pair of left and right side members configuring part of a frame extending in a
vehicle front-rear direction of the vehicle body, each side member including:
                  a side member front extending straight along the vehicle front-rear direction as
viewed along a vehicle vertical direction, and
                  a side member rear joined to the floor panel at a vehicle lower side of the floor
panel, and provided with an inflected portion extending from the side member front so as to
spread out toward a vehicle width direction outward as viewed along the vehicle vertical
direction;
            a power supply section disposed between the side members at a vehicle lower side
of the floor panel and configured to supply power to a power unit installed at the vehicle; and
            a crossing section coupling the side members together, the crossing section being,
as viewed along the vehicle vertical direction, disposed between the inflected portions on a
straight line connecting an inflection point between the side member front and the side
member rear of one of the side members to an inflection point between the side member front
and the side member rear of the other of the side members.
[0028]      The seventh aspect described above has the same basic configuration as the first
aspect, and exhibits similar operation thereto. Moreover, in the present disclosure, as viewed
along the vehicle vertical direction, the crossing section is disposed between the inflected
portions, on the straight line connecting the inflection point of the one side member to the
inflection point of the other side member, and the crossing section couples the side members
together. Accordingly, when a collision load is input to the vehicle due to an offset collision or
the like,the collision load is directly transmitted from the location of the one side member input
with the collision load where deformation would otherwise originate to the other side member
through the crossing section, and the collision load is supported by the other side member.
[0029]      As described above, the vehicle lower section structure according to the first aspect
is capable of suppressing the vehicle body frame extending in the vehicle front-rear direction
from deforming so as to protrude toward the vehicle width direction inward as a result of
collision load in an offset collision or the like, and is also capable of securing a large space in
which to dispose the power supply section at the vehicle lower side of the floor panel.

                                                   -8
[0030]     The vehicle lower section structure according to the second aspect is capable of
suppressing a front wheel moving under collision load from affecting the vehicle body frame
extending in the vehicle front-rear direction when collision load is input in an offset collision or
the like.
[0031]     The vehicle lower section structure according to the third aspect is capable of
supporting the vehicle body frame extending along the vehicle front-rear direction in a stable
state when collision load is input in an offset collision or the like.
[0032]     The vehicle lower section structure according to the fourth aspect is capable of
suppressing the vehicle body frame extending along the vehicle front-rear direction from
deforming as a result of collision load in an offset collision or the like so as to protrude toward
the vehicle width direction inward, without any additional members on the vehicle body side.
[0033]     The vehicle lower section structure according to the fifth aspect is capable of raising
the efficiency of a fixing operation of the power supply section, and is also capable of
suppressing the power supply section from separating from the vehicle body when collision
load is input to the vehicle body in an offset collision or the like.
[0034]     The vehicle lower section structure according to the sixth aspect is capable of
supporting collision load in an initial input stage of collision load input resulting from an offset
collision or the like.
[0035]     The vehicle lower section structure according to the seventh aspect is capable of
suppressing the vehicle body frame extending in the vehicle front-rear direction from deforming
as a result of collision load in an offset collision or the like so as to protrude toward the vehicle
width direction inward, and is also capable of securing a large space in which to dispose the
power supply section at the vehicle lower side of the floor panel.
[0036]     Advantageously the present invention provides, a vehicle lower section structure
capable of suppressing a vehicle body frame extending in a vehicle front-rear direction from
deforming so as to protrude toward a vehicle width direction inward as a result of collision load
in an offset collision or the like, and also capable of securing a large space in which to dispose
a power supply section at a vehicle lower side of a floor panel.

                                                   -9
Brief Description of the Drawings
[0037]      Exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure will be described in detail based
on the following figures, wherein:
[0038]      Fig. 1 is an enlarged bottom view (an enlarged view illustrating the portion enclosed
by double-dotted dashed lines in Fig. 6) illustrating configuration of relevant portions of a
vehicle body of a vehicle applied with a vehicle lower section structure according to a first
exemplary embodiment, as viewed from a vehicle lower side;
[0039]      Fig. 2 is a perspective view (as viewed along the direction of arrow 2 in Fig. 1)
schematically illustrating configuration of relevant portions of a vehicle body of a vehicle
applied with a vehicle lower section structure according to the first exemplary embodiment, as
viewed from a vehicle lower outer side;
[0040]      Fig. 3 is a cross-section (cross-section illustrating a state sectioned along line 3-3 in
Fig. 1) illustrating configuration of relevant portions of a vehicle body of a vehicle applied with a
vehicle lower section structure according to the first exemplary embodiment, as viewed from
the vehicle front;
[0041]      Fig. 4 is a bottom view illustrating a state of a side member prior to collision load
input and a state of a side member after collision load input in a vehicle applied with a vehicle
lower section structure according to the first exemplary embodiment, as viewed from a vehicle
lower side;
[0042]      Fig. 5 is a cross-section (cross-section illustrating a state sectioned along line 5-5 in
Fig. 6) illustrating configuration of a floor section of a vehicle applied with a vehicle lower
section structure according to the first exemplary embodiment, as viewed from a vehicle width
direction outer side;
[0043]      Fig. 6 is a bottom view (as viewed along the direction of arrow 6 in Fig. 5) illustrating
configuration of a floor section in a vehicle applied with a vehicle lower section structure
according to the first exemplary embodiment, as viewed from a vehicle lower side;
[0044]      Fig. 7 is a bottom view (bottom view corresponding to Fig. 6) illustrating configuration
of a floor section in a vehicle applied with a vehicle lower section structure according to a
second exemplary embodiment, as viewed from a vehicle lower side;

                                                  - 10
[0045]      Fig. 8 is an enlarged cross-section (cross-section illustrating a state sectioned along
line 8-8 in Fig. 7) illustrating configuration of a battery pack installed to a vehicle applied with a
vehicle lower section structure according to the second exemplary embodiment, as viewed
from the vehicle front;
[0046]      Fig. 9A is a cross-section (cross-section illustrating a state sectioned along line 9A
9A in Fig. 7) illustrating configuration of a battery pack installed to a vehicle applied with a
vehicle lower section structure according to the second exemplary embodiment, as viewed
from the vehicle front; and
[0047]      Fig. 9B is a side view (as viewed along the direction of arrow 9B in Fig. 9A)
illustrating configuration of a battery pack installed to a vehicle applied with a vehicle lower
section structure according to the second exemplary embodiment, as viewed from a vehicle
width direction outer side.
Preferred Embodiments of the Invention
            First Exemplary Embodiment
[0048]      Explanation follows regarding a first exemplary embodiment of a vehicle lower
section structure according to the present disclosure, with reference to Fig. 1 to Fig. 6. Note
that in each of the drawings, the arrow FR indicates a vehicle front, the arrow UP indicates
upward in the vehicle, and the arrow LH indicates left in a vehicle width direction, as
appropriate.
[0049]      First, explanation follows regarding a whole configuration of a vehicle 10 applied with
a vehicle lower section structure according to the present exemplary embodiment, with
reference to Fig. 5 and Fig. 6. Note that in the present exemplary embodiment, the vehicle 10
is basically configured with left-right symmetry, and so the following explanation of the vehicle
10 focuses mainly on configuration of a vehicle width direction left section. Explanation
regarding configuration on a vehicle width direction right section is omitted as appropriate.
[0050]      The vehicle 10 is configured including a vehicle body 12; a power unit such as a
motor, not illustrated in the drawings, installed in the vehicle 10; and a battery pack 54, serving
as a power supply section, described later, that is attached to the vehicle body 12. The power
unit is driven by receiving power supplied from the battery pack 54, and the vehicle 10 travels
using drive force generated by the power unit.

                                                   - 11
[0051]      The vehicle body 12 has a monocoque structure, and includes a floor panel 16 that
configures part of a floor section 14 at a vehicle lower side of the vehicle body 12, and that
extends in a vehicle front-rear direction and the vehicle width direction as viewed along a
vehicle vertical direction. The floor panel 16 is pressed from sheet steel and is configured
including a front panel section 16A (referred to below as the F-panel section 16A) mainly
configuring a vehicle front section of the floor panel 16, a center panel section 16B (referred to
below as the C-panel section 16B) configuring a vehicle front-rear direction central section of
the floor panel 16, and a rear panel section 16C (referred to below as the R-panel section 16C)
configuring a vehicle rear section of the floor panel 16.
[0052]      More specifically, the F-panel section 16A is configured in a plate shape that curves
or bends so as to form a protrusion toward the front and downward in the vehicle when viewed
in cross-section along the vehicle width direction, and that extends in the vehicle width
direction. As illustrated in Fig. 2, a vehicle lower side portion of a dash panel 18 extending in
the vehicle width direction and extending upward in the vehicle from the F-panel section 16A is
joined to a vehicle upper side portion of the F-panel section 16A at a joint portion, not
illustrated in the drawings, by welding or the like. A vehicle width direction outer side portion of
the F-panel section 16A is joined to a portion of the dash panel 18 configuring a wheelhouse
for a front wheel at a joint portion, not illustrated in the drawings, by welding or the like so as to
configure part of the wheelhouse. Namely, the F-panel section 16A is integrally provided to
the dash panel 18 of the vehicle body 12, and may be considered to serve as part of the dash
panel 18.
[0053]      The C-panel section 16B is configured in a plate shape extending uniformly so as to
extend in the vehicle front-rear direction and the vehicle width direction, and is reinforced by
the formation of plural beads 20, as illustrated in Fig. 1. The R-panel section 16C is formed
with a bulge 16C1 that bulges so as to form a protrusion upward in the vehicle. A vehicle width
direction dimension of the bulge 16C1 is set to a length of approximately 60% to 70% that of a
vehicle width direction dimension of the R-panel section 16C. As will be described in detail
later, part of the battery pack 54 is housed inside the bulge 16C1.
[0054]      A pair of left and right steel rockers 22 are disposed running along vehicle width
direction outer peripheral edges of the floor panel 16 at vehicle width direction outer sides of
the floor panel 16. The rockers 22 extend in the vehicle front-rear direction and are each
configured including a rocker outer 24 configuring a vehicle width direction outer side portion of

                                                  - 12
the rocker 22, and a rocker inner 26 configuring a vehicle width direction inner side portion of
the rocker 22.
[0055]      More specifically, as also illustrated in Fig. 3, a cross-section profile of the rocker
outer 24 as viewed along the vehicle front-rear direction is configured in a hat shape opening
toward the vehicle width direction inward. The rocker inner 26 is configured so as to be
basically symmetrical to the rocker outer 24 about an axis extending in the vehicle vertical
direction, and a cross-section profile of the rocker inner 26 as viewed along the vehicle front
rear direction is configured in a hat shape opening toward the vehicle width direction outward.
Flanges 24A of the rocker outer 24 and flanges 26A of the rocker inner 26 are respectively
joined together at joint portions, not illustrated in the drawings, by welding or the like, thereby
configuring a closed cross-section structure with a substantially hexagonal closed cross
section profile as viewed along the vehicle front-rear direction. Note that a vehicle width
direction outer side end portion 16D of the floor panel 16 is joined to a side wall 26B
configuring a vehicle width direction inner side portion of the rocker inner 26 at a joint portion,
not illustrated in the drawings, by welding or the like.
[0056]      Note that a first feature of the present exemplary embodiment is the configuration of
a pair of left and right side members 28 configuring part of a frame extending in the vehicle
front-rear direction of the vehicle body 12. A second feature is the configuration of torque
boxes 30 interposed between the rockers 22 and the side members 28. A third feature relates
to the point that the side members 28 are coupled together by a crossing member 32, serving
as a crossing section. Detailed explanation follows regarding configuration of the side
members 28, the torque boxes 30, and the crossing member 32, these configuring relevant
portions of the present exemplary embodiment.
[0057]      First, explanation follows regarding configuration of the side members 28, with
reference mainly to Fig. 1 to Fig. 3. Each side member 28 includes a side member front
section 34, a kick section 36, a coupling section 38, and a floor side section 40, disposed in
this sequence from the vehicle front. The side members 28 are, for example, configured from
steel members.
[0058]      The side member front section 34 configures a vehicle front section of the side
member 28 and extends straight along the vehicle front-rear direction. A front section outer 42
configuring a vehicle width direction outer side portion of the side member front section 34, and
a front section inner 44 configuring a vehicle width direction inner side portion of the side

                                                - 13
member front section 34, configure the side member front section 34 with a closed cross
section structure having a rectangular shaped closed cross-section profile as viewed along the
vehicle front-rear direction. Note that a crash box and bumper reinforcement, not illustrated in
the drawings, are attached to a vehicle front end portion of the side member front section 34.
[0059]     As illustrated in Fig. 5, as viewed along the vehicle width direction the kick section 36
extends downward and toward the rear of the vehicle from a vehicle rear portion of the side
member front section 34. The kick section 36 is provided running along a vehicle lower side of
the dash panel 18 and the floor panel 16. The cross-section profile of the kick section 36 as
viewed along its extension direction is basically configured in a hat shape opening toward the
F-panel section 16A side. Moreover, a closed cross-section structure is configured by the kick
section 36 and the floor panel 16 by joining flanges 36A of the kick section 36 to a vehicle
lower side face of the floor panel 16 at joint portions, not illustrated in the drawings, by welding
or the like.
[0060]     More specifically, the kick section 36 is configured including a front portion 36B
configuring a vehicle front portion of the kick section 36, a central portion 36C configuring an
extension direction central portion of the kick section 36, and a rear portion 36D configuring a
vehicle rear portion of the kick section 36. The front portion 36B is disposed straddling the
dash panel 18 and the F-panel section 16A, and the central portion 36C extends from the front
portion 36B toward the vehicle rear.
[0061]     The central portion 36C is disposed straddling the F-panel section 16A and the C
panel section 16B, and has a uniform cross-section profile as viewed along the extension
direction of the kick section 36. The central portion 36C extends straight along the vehicle
front-rear direction as viewed along the vehicle vertical direction. The rear portion 36D
extends from the central portion 36C toward the vehicle rear.
[0062]     The rear portion 36D is disposed along the C-panel section 16B, and has a uniform
cross-section profile as viewed along the extension direction of the kick section 36. The rear
portion 36D extends straight from the central portion 36C toward the vehicle rear and outward
as viewed along the vehicle vertical direction. Namely, as viewed along the vehicle vertical
direction, the kick section 36 configured as described above is bent so as to form a protrusion
toward the vehicle width direction inward overall. A point of intersection between a central line
Li extending along the extension direction of the central portion 36C and a central line L2

                                                 - 14
extending along the extension direction of the rear portion 36D configures an "inflection point
PA" of the kick section 36, and therefore also of the side member 28.
[0063]      The floor side section 40 extends straight along the vehicle front-rear direction at a
vehicle lower side of the C-panel section 16B, in a state at a predetermined spacing from the
rocker 22 in the vehicle width direction. As viewed along the vehicle front-rear direction, a
cross-section profile of the floor side section 40 is configured with a hat shape opening at the
floor panel 16 side. Flanges 40A of the floor side section 40 are joined to the vehicle lower
side face of the floor panel 16 at joint portions, not illustrated in the drawings, by welding or the
like. A closed cross-section structure with a rectangular shaped closed cross-section profile as
viewed along the vehicle front-rear direction is thereby configured by the floor side section 40
and the floor panel 16. A vehicle front end portion of the floor side section 40 is coupled to a
vehicle rear end portion of the kick section 36 by the coupling section 38.
[0064]      A cross-section profile of the coupling section 38 is uniform along the extension
direction of the coupling section 38 as viewed along this extension direction, and is configured
with a hat shape opening on the floor panel 16 side. The coupling section 38 is configured
including a front portion 38A configuring a vehicle front portion of the coupling section 38, and
a rear portion 38B configuring a vehicle rear portion of the coupling section 38.
[0065]      The front portion 38A extends along the extension direction of the rear portion 36D of
the kick section 36, and a vehicle front end portion of the front portion 38A is disposed in a
state overlapping a vehicle rear end portion of the rear portion 36D from the vehicle lower side.
The rear portion 38B extends along the extension direction of the floor side section 40, and a
vehicle rear end portion of the rear portion 38B is disposed in a state overlapping a vehicle
front end portion of the floor side section 40 from the vehicle lower side. A closed cross
section structure is configured by the coupling section 38 and the floor panel 16 by joining
flanges 38C of the coupling section 38 to the vehicle lower side face of the floor panel 16 at
joint portions, not illustrated in the drawings, by welding or the like. Note that the coupling
section 38 is joined to the kick section 36 and the floor side section 40 in a similar manner as
with to the floor panel 16.
[0066]      Moreover, as viewed along the vehicle vertical direction, the coupling section 38
configured as described above is bent so as to form a protrusion toward the vehicle width
direction outward overall. An point of intersection between a central line L3 extending along
the extension direction of the front portion 38A and a central line L4 extending along the

                                                 -15
extension direction of the rear portion 38B configures an inflection point PB of the coupling
section 38, and therefore of the side member 28.
[0067]      As viewed along the vehicle vertical direction, of the side member 28 configured as
described above, a section configured including the side member front section 34 and the front
portion 36B and central portion 36C of the kick section 36 extends straight along the vehicle
front-rear direction. Note that in the following explanation, this section is referred to as the side
member front 46. Depending on the configuration of the vehicle 10 and the like, the side
member front 46 may also be configured so as to extend at a slight angle with respect to the
vehicle width direction.
[0068]      As viewed along the vehicle vertical direction, a section configured including the rear
portion 36D of the kick section 36 and the front portion 38A of the coupling section 38 extends
so as to spread out from the side member front 46 toward the vehicle width direction outward.
Note that in the following explanation, a portion including the inflection points PA, PB is
referred to as the inflected portion 48. Moreover, in the following explanation, of the side
member 28, a section that is further to the vehicle rear than the side member front 46 and that
includes the inflected portion 48 and the floor side section 40 is referred to as the side member
rear 50. Moreover, as illustrated in Fig. 5 and Fig. 6, the battery pack 54 is attached to the
side members 28.
[0069]      The battery pack 54 is configured including an aluminium battery case 56 serving as
a battery case configuring an outer shell of the battery pack 54, and battery modules 58
disposed inside the battery case 56. See the battery module 58 illustrated in Fig. 8, referred to
later in the explanation of the second exemplary embodiment.
[0070]      The battery case 56 includes a cover 60 that covers the battery modules 58 from the
vehicle upper side, and a base 62 that supports the battery modules 58 from the vehicle lower
side. The cover 60 is configured so as to fit between the side members 28 and is configured
including an upper wall 60A configuring a vehicle upper portion of the cover 60, and a pair of
side walls 60B configuring vehicle width direction outer side portions of the cover 60 and
disposed with their plate thickness direction in the vehicle width direction.
[0071]      A front portion 60C at the vehicle front of the cover 60 is configured with a basically
uniform dimension in the vehicle vertical direction. A vehicle front-rear direction dimension of
the front portion 60C is set to approximately 60% of a vehicle front-rear direction dimension of

                                                 -16
the overall cover 60. At the vehicle rear of the upper wall 60A, a rear portion 60D at the
vehicle rear of the cover 60 includes a bulge 60D1 having a shape slightly smaller than the
bulge 16C1 of the floor panel 16. A vehicle vertical direction dimension of the rear portion 60D
is set longer than the vehicle vertical direction dimension of the front portion 60C. Namely, as
viewed along the vehicle width direction, the cover 60 is configured in a stepped shape so as
to be taller at the vehicle rear. Moreover, viewing the cover 60 along the vehicle vertical
direction, a vehicle front portion of the front portion 60C, namely a portion disposed between
the inflected portions 48, becomes wider on progression toward the vehicle rear side,
corresponding to the shape of the inflected portions 48.
[0072]     The base 62 is configured in a plate shape that is slightly larger than the cover 60 as
viewed along the vehicle vertical direction, and with a plate thickness that is set thicker than
the plate thickness of the cover 60. Moreover, the cover 60 is attached to the base 62 using
fastening members or the like, not illustrated in the drawings, in a state in which the cover 60
has been placed at the vehicle upper side of the base 62.
[0073]     To explain with reference to Fig. 8, referred to later in the description of the second
exemplary embodiment, a vehicle width direction outer side edge 62A (the edge 88A in Fig. 8)
of the base 62 is provided with plural insertion portions 64 at predetermined spacings along the
edge 62A. A lower wall 28A configuring a vehicle lower side portion of the side member 28, or
more specifically a vehicle upper side face of a portion of the lower wall 28A on the side
member rear 50 side, is provided with plural fastened members 66 such as weld nuts,
corresponding to the insertion portions 64. The battery case 56 is fixed to the vehicle body 12
by inserting fastening members 68 such as bolts into the insertion portions 64 from the vehicle
lower side and fastening the fastening members 68 to the fastened members 66. Note that a
collar 70 is disposed between the base 62 and the lower wall 28A.
[0074]     Inside the battery case 56, plural of the battery modules 58 are arranged in a row
along the vehicle front-rear direction, so as to be disposed in a single tier inside the front
portion 60C, and in three tiers in the vehicle vertical direction inside the rear portion 60D. Note
that in a state in which the battery pack 54 is attached to the vehicle body 12, the bulge 60D1
of the cover 60, and the third tier of battery modules 58 disposed inside the bulge 60D1, are
disposed inside the bulge 16C1 of the R-panel section 16C. Moreover, the battery pack 54 is
disposed in a state at a predetermined spacing from the floor panel 16.

                                                  -17
[0075]      As illustrated in Fig. 1 and Fig. 2, each torque box 30 is configured including a
bottom wall 30A configuring a vehicle rear portion of the torque box 30, a front wall 30B
configuring the vehicle front of the torque box 30, and a rear wall 30C, serving as a vertical
wall configuring a vehicle rear portion of the torque box 30.
[0076]      As viewed along the vehicle vertical direction, the bottom wall 30A is configured in a
substantially rectangular plate shape with its plate thickness direction running in the vehicle
vertical direction, and is disposed so as to overlap with the F-panel section 16A and the C
panel section 16B. From the bottom wall 30A, an inward flange 30A1 extending from a
peripheral edge on the vehicle width direction inner side of the bottom wall 30A extends out
toward the vehicle width direction inward. Moreover, as also illustrated in Fig. 3, at a vehicle
lower side face of a portion on the side member front 46 side of the lower wall 28A, the inward
flange 30A1 is joined to the lower wall 28A at a joint portion, not illustrated in the drawings, by
welding or the like.
[0077]      The bottom wall 30A is also provided with an inclined portion running from a vehicle
lower inner side toward the vehicle upper outward, and an outward flange 30A2 extending out
from a vehicle width direction outer peripheral edge of the inclined portion toward the vehicle
width direction outward. The outward flange 30A2 is joined to a lower wall 26C configuring a
vehicle lower side portion of the rocker inner 26 at a joint portion, not illustrated in the
drawings, by welding or the like.
[0078]      The front wall 30B extends out toward the vehicle upper side from a peripheral edge
at the vehicle front of the bottom wall 30A, and is configured in a plate shape with its plate
thickness direction running in the vehicle front-rear direction. Moreover, a forward flange 30B1
extending toward the vehicle front extends out from a vehicle upper peripheral edge of the
front wall 30B. The forward flange 30B1 is joined to the F-panel section 16A at a joint portion,
not illustrated in the drawings, by welding or the like.
[0079]      The rear wall 30C extends out toward the vehicle upper side from a vehicle rear
peripheral edge of the bottom wall 30A, and is configured in a plate shape with its plate
thickness direction running in the vehicle front-rear direction. Moreover, a rearward flange
30C1 extending toward the vehicle rear extends out from a vehicle upper peripheral edge of
the rear wall 30C. The rearward flange 30C1 is joined to the C-panel section 16B at a joint
portion, not illustrated in the drawings, by welding or the like. Moreover, the torque box 30

                                                 -18
configured as described above forms a closed space together with the floor panel 16, the side
member 28, and the rocker 22.
[0080]     The crossing member 32 is disposed running along the vehicle width direction
between the inflected portions 48, at the vehicle lower side of the floor panel 16. The crossing
member 32 includes a lower side wall 32A, a front side wall 32B, a rear side wall 32C serving
as a vertical wall, and a pair of flanges 32D. A cross-section profile of the crossing member 32
as viewed along the vehicle width direction is configured in a hat shape opening toward the
vehicle upper side.
[0081]     The lower side wall 32A configures a vehicle lower side portion of the crossing
member 32, has a rectangular plate shape extending in the vehicle width direction, and is
configured with its plate thickness direction running in the vehicle vertical direction. The front
side wall 32B configures a vehicle front portion of the crossing member 32, and extends from a
vehicle front peripheral edge of the lower side wall 32A toward the vehicle upper side. The
front side wall 32B is configured in a rectangular plate shape extending in the vehicle width
direction and is configured with its plate thickness direction running in the vehicle front-rear
direction.
[0082]     Moreover, the rear side wall 32C, configuring a vehicle rear portion of the crossing
member 32, extends out from a vehicle rear peripheral edge of the lower side wall 32A toward
the vehicle upper side. The rear side wall 32C has a rectangular plate shape extending in the
vehicle width direction, and is configured with its plate thickness direction running in the vehicle
front-rear direction. Note that the rear wall 30C of the torque box 30 described above is
disposed at a position overlapping with the rear side wall 32C as viewed along the vehicle
width direction. Specifically, as viewed along the vehicle width direction, the rear wall 30C of
the torque box 30 and the rear side wall 32C of the crossing member 32 may be disposed
overlapping each other fully, disposed offset in the vehicle front-rear direction so as to overlap
each other partially, or disposed intersecting one another so as to overlap each other partially.
Moreover, the flanges 32D extend out from a vehicle upper peripheral edge of the front side
wall 32B toward the vehicle front, and from a vehicle upper peripheral edge of the rear side
wall 32C toward the vehicle rear, respectively. The flanges 32D are joined to the floor panel
16 at joint portions, not illustrated in the drawings, by welding or the like.
[0083]     An outward flange 32E extends out from a vehicle width direction outer peripheral
edge of the lower side wall 32A toward the vehicle width direction outward, from a vehicle

                                                 - 19
width direction outer peripheral edge of the front side wall 32B toward the vehicle front, and
from a vehicle width direction outer peripheral edge of the rear side wall 32C toward the
vehicle rear, respectively. The outward flange 32E is joined to the kick section 36 at a joint
portion, not illustrated in the drawings, by welding or the like.
[0084]      As viewed along the vehicle vertical direction, a center line running in the vehicle
width direction at a portion of the crossing member 32, configured as described above, that is
configured by the lower side wall 32A, the front side wall 32B, and the rear side wall 32C
(referred to below as the bulge 32F) is disposed so as to overlap with a straight line L5
connecting between the respective inflection points PA described above. Note that the
crossing member 32 does not necessarily have to be disposed such that the center line of the
bulge 32F and the straight line L5 match up perfectly, and it is sufficient that the crossing
member 32 be disposed such that part of the bulge 32F overlaps with the straight line L5.
[0085]      Moreover, since the inflected portions 48 are coupled together as described above
by the crossing member 32, when one of the side members 28 deforms toward the vehicle
width direction inward, load can be transmitted from the one side member 28 to the other side
member 28.
[0086]      Moreover, together with the floor panel 16, the crossing member 32 configures a
closed cross-section structure with a rectangular shaped closed cross-section profile as
viewed along the vehicle width direction, and the floor panel 16 and the side members 28 form
a closed space.
                 Operation of the Present Exemplary Embodiment
                  Next, explanation follows regarding operation of the present exemplary
            embodiment.
[0087]      In the present exemplary embodiment, in the vehicle body 12 that has a monocoque
structure, part of the floor section 14 is configured by the floor panel 16. Moreover, part of the
frame extending in the vehicle front-rear direction of the vehicle body 12 is configured by the
pair of left and right side members 28, each of which includes the side member front 46 and
the side member rear 50. The side member rear 50 is joined to the floor panel 16 at the
vehicle lower side of the floor panel 16, and the battery pack 54 is disposed between the side

                                                  - 20
members 28 at the vehicle lower side of the floor panel 16. The battery pack 54 is capable of
supplying power to the power unit installed to the vehicle 10.
[0088]      Note that in the present exemplary embodiment, as viewed in the vehicle vertical
direction, the respective side member rears 50 are provided with the inflected portions 48 that
extend so as to spread out from the side member fronts 46 toward the vehicle width direction
outward. Accordingly, the space that is between the side members 28 and at the vehicle lower
side of the floor panel 16, namely the space in which the battery pack 54 is disposed, can be
made larger than in a configuration in which the side member rears 50 continue to extend
straight toward the vehicle rear from the side member fronts 46.
[0089]      Note that as viewed along the vehicle vertical direction, each of the side members 28
extends straight along the vehicle front-rear direction at the side member front 46 portion;
however, the side members 28 are bent toward the vehicle width direction outward as
described above at the locations provided with the inflected portions 48. Accordingly, when
collision load is input to the vehicle 10 in an offset collision or the like, stress readily
concentrates at the inflected portions 48, as a result of collision load in an initial state of the
collision, and as a result of inertial movement of a vehicle rear section of the vehicle 10 in a
later stage of the collision. As a result, it is conceivable that the side members 28 might
deform so as to protrude toward the vehicle width direction inward at the inflected portion 48,
as illustrated by the double-dotted dashed lines in Fig. 4.
[0090]      However, in the present exemplary embodiment, when one of the side members 28
deforms toward the vehicle width direction inward, load can be transmitted from the one side
member 28 to the other of the side members 28 through the crossing member 32 disposed
along the vehicle width direction between the inflected portions 48 of the side members 28.
Accordingly, when collision load is input to the vehicle 10 in an offset collision or the like, the
collision load is transmitted from the one side member 28 into which the collision load was
input to the other side member 28 through the crossing member 32, and the collision load is
supported by the other side member 28. Accordingly, the present exemplary embodiment
enables deformation of the vehicle body frame extending in the vehicle front-rear direction so
as to protrude toward the vehicle width direction inward as a result of collision load in an offset
collision or the like to be suppressed, and enables a large space in which to dispose the
battery pack 54 to be secured at the vehicle lower side of the floor panel 16.

                                                   - 21
[0091]      Moreover, in the present exemplary embodiment, the torque boxes 30 are disposed
at the vehicle width direction outer sides of the respective side members 28. Each torque box
30 is joined to the corresponding rocker 22 and side member 28 that extend along the vehicle
front-rear direction along a peripheral edge on the vehicle width direction outer side of the floor
panel 16. Accordingly, collision load input to the side member 28 in an offset collision or the
like is dispersed into the rocker 22 through the torque box 30.
[0092]      Note that in an offset collision of the vehicle 10, it is conceivable that a front wheel
moving under collision load might impact a vehicle front portion of the rocker 22. In such an
event, it is conceivable that a moment might arise in the torque box 30 about an axis in the
vehicle vertical direction so as to pivot about a vehicle front portion of the joint portion between
the torque box 30 and the rocker 22, and that this moment would act as a bending moment on
the side member 28.
[0093]      However, in the present exemplary embodiment, as viewed along the vehicle width
direction, the rear wall 30C at the vehicle rear of the torque box 30 is disposed at a position
overlapping with the rear side wall 32C at the vehicle rear of the crossing member 32.
Accordingly, a moment arising in the torque box 30 due to the front wheel moving under
collision load is countered due to the rear wall 30C of the torque box 30 being supported by the
rear side wall 32C of the crossing member 32 through the side member 28. Accordingly, in the
present exemplary embodiment, when collision load is input in an offset collision or the like, the
front wheel moving under collision load can be suppressed from affecting the vehicle body
frame extending in the vehicle front-rear direction.
[0094]      Moreover, in the present exemplary embodiment, as viewed along the vehicle width
direction the lower side wall 32A configuring the vehicle lower side of the crossing member 32
is coupled to the lower wall 28A configuring the vehicle lower side portion of the side member
28. Accordingly, when one of the side members 28 deforms toward the vehicle width direction
inward, load can be transmitted from the lower wall 28A of that side member 28 to the lower
side wall 32A of the crossing member 32. Accordingly, when collision load is input to the
vehicle 10 in an offset collision or the like, the lower wall 28A of the side member 28 is
supported by the lower side wall 32A of the crossing member 32, and as a result, a moment
about an axis in the vehicle front-rear direction can be suppressed from arising in the side
member 28. Accordingly, in the present exemplary embodiment, the vehicle body frame
extending in the vehicle front-rear direction can be supported in a stable state during input of
collision load in an offset collision or the like.

                                                   - 22
[0095]      In addition, in the present exemplary embodiment, since the battery case 56 is fixed
to the lower walls 28A configuring the vehicle lower side portions of the side members 28 using
the fastening members 68, a fixing operation is rendered easier than in cases in which, for
example, the battery case 56 is fixed to side walls of the side members 28. Note that it is
conceivable that stress might concentrate at the fastening locations of the fastening members
68 as a result of compression load or tensile load acting on the side wall of the side member
28 when the side member 28 deforms as a result of collision load in an offset collision or the
like. Regarding this point, however, in the present exemplary embodiment stress can be
suppressed from concentrating at the fastening locations of the fastening members 68 by fixing
the battery case 56 to the lower walls 28A of the side members 28 as described above.
Accordingly, in the present exemplary embodiment, the efficiency of a fixing operation of the
battery pack 54 can be raised, and the battery pack 54 can be suppressed from separating
from the vehicle body 12 when collision load is input to the vehicle body 12 in an offset
collision or the like.
[0096]      Note that in the present exemplary embodiment, as viewed along the vehicle vertical
direction, each side member 28 is bent toward the vehicle width direction outward about a
boundary at the inflection point PA between the side member front 46 and the side member
rear 50. Accordingly, were the crossing member 32 not to be provided, input of collision load
to the side members 28 as a result of an offset collision or the like would result in the side
member 28 into which the collision load was input undergoing folding deformation originating
at the inflection point PA.
[0097]      However, in the present exemplary embodiment, as viewed along the vehicle vertical
direction, the crossing member 32 is disposed along the straight line L5 connecting the
inflection points PA together. Accordingly, when the side member 28 is input with collision
load in an offset collision or the like, the side member 28 input with collision load can be
supported at a location where deformation would otherwise originate. Accordingly, in the
present exemplary embodiment, collision load can be supported in an initial input stage of
collision load in an offset collision or the like.
                 Second Exemplary Embodiment
[0098]      Explanation follows regarding a second exemplary embodiment of a vehicle lower
section structure according to the present disclosure, with reference to Fig. 7 to Fig. 9. Note

                                                - 23
that configuration portions matching those of the first exemplary embodiment described above
are allocated the same reference numerals, and explanation thereof is omitted.
[0099]     A feature of the vehicle lower section structure according to the present exemplary
embodiment is that instead of the crossing member 32, a reinforcement section 84 is provided
inside a battery case 82 of a battery pack 80. In the present exemplary embodiment, the
battery case 82 extends further toward the vehicle front than the battery case 56, and is also
disposed between the inflection points PA. Moreover, the reinforcement section 84 is
disposed inside a vehicle front end portion of the battery case 82.
[0100]     The reinforcement section 84 is configured from a steel member and has an angular
tube shape extending in the vehicle width direction. Similarly to the crossing member 32, the
reinforcement section 84 is disposed so as to overlap with the straight line L5 connecting
between the inflection points PA. As viewed along the vehicle width direction, the
reinforcement section 84 is disposed such that a lower side wall 84A configuring a vehicle
lower side portion of the reinforcement section 84 overlaps with the lower walls 28A of the side
members 28. Moreover, as viewed along the vehicle width direction, a rear side wall 84B
configuring a vehicle rear portion of the reinforcement section 84 is disposed at a position
overlapping with the rear wall 30C at the vehicle rear of the torque box 30.
[0101]      Moreover, the reinforcement section 84 is configured so as to deform less readily
than a cover 86 of the battery case 82 with respect to load toward the battery case 82 side.
This means that when load of equivalent magnitude toward the vehicle width direction inward
is input to the reinforcement section 84 and the cover 86 respectively, a displacement amount
(deformation stroke) from an initial position of the vehicle width direction outer side end portion
of the reinforcement section 84 is smaller than a displacement amount of a side wall 86A of the
cover 86 from its initial position.
[0102]      Moreover, in the present exemplary embodiment, side face frames 88B, each having
a rectangular shaped vertical cross-section, are provided along vehicle width direction inner
peripheral edges of respective edges 88A of a base 88 configuring the battery case 82.
Furthermore, bottom face frames 88D with a thicker plate thickness than a general portion 88C
of the base 88 are provided to a vehicle lower side face of the base 88 so as to couple
together the side face frames 88B at predetermined spacings in the vehicle front-rear direction.

                                                  - 24
[0103]      In addition, in the present exemplary embodiment, fastening portions 90 for the
fastening members 68 that fix the battery case 82 are additionally provided on an extension
line of the straight line L5. Note that collars 70 are not disposed at the fastening locations of
the fastening portions 90. Moreover, out of the fastening portions for the fastening members
68 that fix the battery case 82, a pair of the fastening portions 92 closest to each inflection
point PB is disposed so as to sandwich the inflection point PB in the vehicle front-rear
direction.
[0104]      Such a configuration is capable of exhibiting the same basic operation as that of the
first exemplary embodiment described above. Moreover, in the present exemplary
embodiment, a load transmission path from one side member 28 to the other side member 28
when the one side member 28 deforms toward the vehicle width direction inward is configured
by the reinforcement section 84, enabling the load to be supported by the other side member
28. Accordingly, in the present exemplary embodiment, the vehicle body frame extending in
the vehicle front-rear direction can be suppressed from deforming as a result of collision load
in an offset collision or the like so as to protrude toward the vehicle width direction inward,
without any additional members on the vehicle body 12 side.
[0105]      Note that as illustrated in Fig. 4, when collision load is input to the side member 28 in
an offset collision or the like, it is conceivable that the side member 28 to which the collision
load is input might undergo folding deformation so as to protrude toward the vehicle width
direction outward originating at the inflection point PB. However, in the present exemplary
embodiment, the battery case 82 is reinforced by the side face frame 88B and the bottom face
frame 88D, and the fastening portions 92 are disposed so as to sandwich the respective
inflection points PB. Accordingly, the side member 28 to which collision load has been input
can be suppressed from undergoing folding deformation so as to protrude toward the vehicle
width direction outward originating at the inflection point PB.
                 Supplementary Explanation of the Above Exemplary Embodiments
[0106]      (1) In the first exemplary embodiment described above, the crossing member 32 is
joined to the vehicle body 12. However, configuration may be made in which the crossing
member 32 is fixed to the vehicle body 12 using a fastening member. Such a configuration
enables a reduction in the locations where the vehicle body 12 is modified as a result of
providing the crossing member 32. Note that the position of the crossing member 32 is not
limited to the position described above, and the position of the crossing member 32 may be

                                               - 25
modified as appropriate depending on the configuration of the vehicle body 12, as long as it is
between the inflected portions 48.
[0107]     (2) In the first exemplary embodiment described above, configuration is made in
which the side member 28 is bent at the location provided with the inflected portion 48.
However, depending on the configuration of the vehicle body 12, configuration may be made in
which the side member 28 is curved at the location provided with the inflected portion 48.
[0108]     (3) In the second exemplary embodiment described above, the battery case 82 and
the reinforcement section 84 are configured as separate bodies. However, the battery case 82
and the reinforcement section 84 may be configured integrally to one another. Moreover,
depending on the configuration of the vehicle body 12, the material from which the
reinforcement section 84 is manufactured may be aluminum, or may be a carbon fiber
reinforced plastic.
[0109]     (4) In the second exemplary embodiment described above, the fastening portions 90
are provided in order to position the battery case 82, and therefore the reinforcement section
84, between the inflected portions 48 with respect to the side members 28. However,
configuration may be made in which the fastening portions 90 are not provided. Such a
configuration enables the assembly precision demanded between the battery case 82 and the
side members 28 to be relaxed.
[0110]     (5) In the exemplary embodiments described above, the vehicle lower section
structure according to the exemplary embodiments described above are applied to the vehicle
10 installed with a battery pack. However, the vehicle lower section structure according to the
exemplary embodiments described above may be applied to a vehicle installed with a fuel cell
stack.

                                                 - 26
Claims:
1.         A vehicle lower section structure comprising:
           a floor panel configuring part of a floor section of a vehicle body having a
monocoque structure;
           a pair of left and right side members configuring part of a frame extending in a
vehicle front-rear direction of the vehicle body, each side member including:
           a side member front extending straight along the vehicle front-rear direction as
viewed along a vehicle vertical direction, and
           a side member rear joined to the floor panel at a vehicle lower side of the floor panel,
and provided with an inflected portion extending from the side member front so as to spread
out toward a vehicle width direction outward as viewed along the vehicle vertical direction;
           a power supply section disposed between the side members at a vehicle lower side
of the floor panel and configured to supply power to a power unit installed at the vehicle; and
           a crossing section running along the vehicle width direction between the inflected
portions and configured to transmit load from one of the side members to the other of the side
members in a case in which the one side member deforms toward the vehicle width direction
inward.
2.         The vehicle lower section structure of claim 1, further comprising a torque box
disposed at the vehicle width direction outer side of the side member, wherein a vertical wall of
the torque box at the vehicle rear of the torque box as viewed along the vehicle width direction
is disposed at a position overlapping with a vertical wall at the vehicle rear of the crossing
section, and is joined to the side member and to a rocker extending in the vehicle front-rear
direction along a peripheral edge on the vehicle width direction outer side of the floor panel.
3.         The vehicle lower section structure of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein:
           as viewed along the vehicle width direction, a lower side wall configuring the vehicle
lower side of the crossing section is disposed so as to overlap with a lower wall configuring a
vehicle lower side portion of the side member, or is coupled to the lower wall; and
           the load can be transmitted from the lower wall to the lower side wall.
4.         The vehicle lower section structure of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein:
           a reinforcement section serving as the crossing section is disposed inside a battery
case configuring an outer shell of the power supply section; and
           the reinforcement section is configured so as to deform less readily than the battery
case with respect to the load.

                                                  - 27
5.          The vehicle lower section structure of claim 4, wherein the battery case is fixed to a
lower wall configuring a vehicle lower side portion of the side member via a fastening member.
6.          The vehicle lower section structure of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein as viewed
along the vehicle vertical direction, the crossing section is disposed on a straight line
connecting an inflection point between the side member front and the side member rear of one
of the side members to an inflection point between the side member front and the side member
rear of the other of the side members.
7.          A vehicle lower section structure comprising:
            a floor panel configuring part of a floor section of a vehicle body having a
monocoque structure;
            a pair of left and right side members configuring part of a frame extending in a
vehicle front-rear direction of the vehicle body, each side member including:
                  a side member front extending straight along the vehicle front-rear direction as
viewed along a vehicle vertical direction, and
                  a side member rear joined to the floor panel at a vehicle lower side of the floor
panel, and provided with an inflected portion extending from the side member front so as to
spread out toward a vehicle width direction outward as viewed along the vehicle vertical
direction;
            a power supply section disposed between the side members at a vehicle lower side
of the floor panel and configured to supply power to a power unit installed at the vehicle; and
            a crossing section coupling the side members together, the crossing section being,
as viewed along the vehicle vertical direction, disposed between the inflected portions on a
straight line connecting an inflection point between the side member front and the side
member rear of one of the side members to an inflection point between the side member front
and the side member rear of the other of the side members.

<removed-date>
                                                           1/9
                                                         FIG.1
                                                                               12                           LH
                                                                2                                     FR
                                    30                   30A2
<removed-apn>
                                                                                     24 22
                                               30A                   30C
                                                     3                     30C1                              14
                                         30B
                             28         30B1
                                                                                                             40
              46                        36C                                 26 L3                     L4
                                        36                                 36D                               50
                    42
                                                                PA
                                                                                                      38B   40A
                                                                                    38A         PB           20
                                                                          L2
                                                                    32E
                                                                                           38
                   44        36B                                                    48
                        34         L1                                                                       16
                                          36A        3
                                         30A1                                                    20
                                                                      32D
                                                                               32
                                             32A                      32C
                                               32D                                   16B
                                                                     L5
                                         16A     32B 32F

<removed-date>
                                       2/9
                                     FIG.2
                                                   12                     FR
                           32
<removed-apn>
                                16    16A                          UP
                     32A                 30A1
               32C                                      30         28
              32D                                            30A        36B
                                       32E
                                     36C
                16B                                                 30B
                      36                                                       42
                                             30C
                                      30C1
                     36A
                                                                         18
                                             22
                                 24

                                               <removed-apn>            <removed-date>
                    FIG.3
                                                          UP
                      12
                                                                LH
                                        26A          24A
                                                           22
                                   26
               14
 16                        16D                                  24
                                                                             3/9
                                              26B
                                              26C
             28A
                            28
                                                    24A
                                 30A2
      30A1          30A             26A
                           30
32

<removed-date>
                                  4/9
                              FIG.4
                                                                LH
<removed-apn>
                                                      FR
                                       22
                                                           L4
                   30
                             PA
                                                 PB
                                            L3        28
                                  L2
              28
                        L1
                                   32
                             56(54)

                                                              <removed-apn>               <removed-date>
                                       FIG.5
                                                                                UP
                                           12(10)
           28                                                            FR
                                                                              16(14)
                                                      60A          16C
                                                            16C1                               5/9
                 16A
                                         16B                                           54
                       32D
                             32C 60C           60D1
34                                                                                   60
 36
      30
           32B
                   32A                                                    60D
           32          60B         38 40              6
                             56                                62

                                                                       <removed-apn>      <removed-date>
                                         FIG.6
                                                                                           LH
                                                   12(10)
                                                        22       62A             FR
              30   28                  28A                                  16(14)
46                           68        68               68                            54
                                              50                                                6/9
          5                                                  5                    56
                             32                                              62
16A                                                50
                        68                                   62A                    16C
                                  68          68
     46
              30   28        16B         22

                                                         <removed-apn>         <removed-date>
                                  FIG.7
                                           12                              LH
                                                  22    88A
                 30C                                          80 FR
 30 9A                      8
            PA
                                                                      82
                       92   8
      9A   90                                                  88                   7/9
           84B
 84
            L5
      PA
            90
                       92
30
                   30C      88D   88D 22    88D        88A

                                                                    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                 FIG.8
                                                                           UP
                                                      12
                                                                                 LH
                                                                            22
                 80
                      86        88B                    16                                8/9
                                            66
           86A                                                 28
58
                                                              28A
                                                            70
                                                            64
                                                             88
             88C                      88A        68
     88D
                           82

<removed-date>
                                                  9/9
                                             FIG.9A
                                                                            UP
                                                 12                              LH
                                                                                 22
<removed-apn>
                           80
                                                      16
              86            82 86A
                                       66
                                                            9B
                                                  28
                                                                 30
                                                 28A
                                84A
                   88 84               68(90)
                                             FIG.9B
                                                             12
                                            84                        16
                                                            84B                  86
                                      28A                  84A
                                28
                                                68(90)           82    88

