   A METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR FORMING A COMPLEX VISUAL IMAGE
                                    ABSTRACT
Creating a useable footprint complex image product, from an unscaled primary image
by scaling the primary image and locking and tracking the scaled complex image
product and combining and overlaying with matched scale selected secondary images.

                  5/23
110  Providing a visual image in
         an undefined scale
                                 111
    Obtaining a measurement of
           a real dimension
                                  112
    Measuring a corresponding
               dimension
                                   113
    Calculating the actual scale
                                 114
     Locking the visual image in
    an undefined scale to relate
       to a locked scale in the
     corresponding actual scale    115
    Use the locked scale image
                                 116
                FIGURE 5

                                                  1
            A METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR FORMING A COMPLEX VISUAL IMAGE
   Field of the Invention
 5 [001]The present invention relates to a method and system for forming a complex visual
   image and in particular a complex image formed of overlay of multiple images.
   [002]The invention particularly relates to a method and system for scaleably controlling
   a visual image in order to form a complex image formed of overlay of multiple images.
   [003]In one form, it relates to a method and system for providing a useable variable
10 footprint area of a visual image and to a method of determining and using measurable
   components in the variable footprint area and to a method and system for determining
   footprint area.
   [004]The invention has been developed primarily for use in/with two-dimensional real
   estate plans and will be described hereinafter with reference to this application. However,
15 it will be appreciated that the invention is not limited to this particular field of use.
   Background of the Invention
   [005] It is often necessary to form a complex image formed of overlay of multiple images.
   This is not readily achievable as the images are created separately and with no
20 consideration of the other images. Therefore, random combination of such images will
   not form a final complex image with its component parts related to each other.
   [006] Use of computers in themselves will also not allow combination of images. A single
   image can be enlarged or shrunk. In essence the ready manoeuvrability of images by
   computers have caused the problem that the image that is transmitted or displayed or
25 printed has no bearing on the size of the image when first created and therefore no
   determination of scaling.
   [007] Images are often published in a format that could be distinctly different to the format
   in which it was created. The original drawing could have been created by a local planner,
   or architect or designer at a particular scale. Therefore, the various components of the
30 drawing are relatively scaled. The drawing can represent a plan view of a floor plan, or
   suburban street plan etc.

                                                  2
   [008] The problem is that the drawing could then be transmitted electronically and change
   in size in the transmission due to different screen sizes of the sender and receiver or due
   to different sized views of the files by the user compared to the sender. Still further the
   receiver can optionally enlarge the image to see it better or shrink it to fit in a presentation
 5 or further the scale can be changed when printed on various sized paper.
   [009] Therefore, even if the drawing is relatively scaled at inception, the actual scale of
   the image through its various display forms is not consistent and is no longer known. This
   means that other drawings which could have a particular scale or in themselves might
   have an unknown scale cannot be overlayed to form a combined scale.
10 [0010]       Therefore, it can be seen that the usual computer transmission and display of
   images does not allow for combination of drawings without a clash of different scalings
   and often with unknown different scaling.
   [0011]       It can be that the drawing includes a scale in written form on the image.
   However, this is not a scale of the drawing image, but it is a relative comparative scale of
15 the drawing to reality at the time the image was created. Therefore, on the original
   drawing 1 millimetre distance might have been equivalent to 1 metre in reality. The
   importance of this is the idea of the importance of "original architectural drawings" which
   therefore maintains the exact scale. This does not allow transfer of scale with changes
   of image.
20 [0012]       This is diagrammatically shown in Figure 1 of the prior art in which a primary
   image 11 is required to form a basis for a complex image 15 by inclusion of secondary
   images 13 and 14. However the scale of the primary image is 1:? (i.e. it is unknown) and
   therefore the complex image scale is also 1: ?. It therefore becomes impossible to add
   secondary images 13 and 14 which might have a known scale 1: 10 and 1 : 20 but whether
25 this matches the primary image 11 is totally unknown.
   [0013]       The physical result of this is that the furniture that is in one image when
   overlayed on a floorplan etc has no relevance to each other as the scaling merits of each
   image is not known and is in nearly all cases not in the same scale. If design work and
   furniture selection is then undertaken based on this incorrect information it is clear that in
30 reality the design or furniture will not work in that location.
   [0014]       Overhead plan view photographs are a particular image that has an unknown
   scale. In geometry, the scale will be determined by the height above ground of the

                                                     3
   airplane, drone or helicopter from which the overhead plan photograph is taken. However
   detailed calculations would need to be taken on the ground and detailed reverse scaling
   calculations undertaken to determine the scale of the photograph as first taken.
   [0015]       However again that overhead plan view photograph is transformed into various
 5 sized images and the initial photograph has unknown scaling and the reproduction or
   different display forms of the image have even further different scaling.
   [0016]       It can be that a photograph or drawing is displayed with reference to a grid.
   However, this grid is merely a form of the relative comparative scale of the drawing to
   reality. It is not a grid that is relevant to the present scale of the image. Still further if
10 another picture with grid is to be overlayed you cannot merely make the grids the same
   as there might be no relationship at all between grids.
   [0017]       Generally real estate is sold by a combination of pictures of the outside of the
   premises and a selection of pictures of various rooms in the premises.                  It is then
   completed by a two-dimensional floorplan or a site plan.              In all of this there is no
15 consistency of scale or understanding of actual dimensions.
   [0018]       If the building is being "bought off the plan" then the sizing of the building needs
   to be matched to the sizing of the land. Also, the floorplan can show a room size but it is
   conceptually impossible to know exactly what that means in reality. This is even more
   prevalent when there is a limitation of space and rooms are downsized to make them fit
20 but it is not until the fixtures and furniture are included in the final building that the size is
   understood.
   [0019]       If a residence is being sold without furniture or with undersized furniture or
   limited furniture in order to provide a pleasing spacious look then there will be a visual
   effect provided which distracts or even disguises the actual size disadvantages of the
25 design and spacing.
   [0020]       Even further is that products at other locations such as your furniture from a
   previous residence, fixtures on display at kitchen or bathroom or plumbing supplies,
   furniture from shops etc are all either with real size or displayed in catalogues in their own
   individual scale or even in inconsistent scale in the same catalogue.
30 [0021]       Still further is the online display. In this case the visual image is changeable
   all the time. There is no scale system as there is no fixed upload or download. It is

                                                  4
   impossible to keep track of a visual image from the start unless it is permanently locked
   into a display system. This totally prevents any merger of systems or overlap of pictures
   or the like. This permanently locked images stagnates the visual display and therefore is
   not an acceptable tool in commercial reality.
 5 [0022]       It is only an acceptable tool in dry precise fields such as strict map reading,
   precision engineering drawings and precision architectural drawings. Such are not for
   general use and are specially created for a single use.
   [0023]       It is known in the mapping and architectural services to have accurate
   drawings.       However, this requires a single fixed source of image with the scale
10 emblazoned on that single image. This requires every single image to individually have
   a scale. This precision for all visual images is not an acceptable, possible or affordable.
   [0024]      A particular problem is that if you are given this imprecise image with its
   unknown scale there is nothing you can do with it but to accept it on face value.
   [0025]       It can therefore be seen that there is a whole range of problems to be
15 approached with at least one or more of those and other problems to be mitigated or
   ameliorated or at least provide an alternative.
   [0026]      Those problems include:
       a) The problem of visual images not being in a known scale;
       b) The problem of visual images changing scale when displayed online;
20     c) The problem of multiple visual images cannot be merged or used together as their
           individual scale is not known and the scales could be different;
       d) The problem that visual images can provide visual effects that trick the viewer on
           size, scale, interrelation, perspective etc;
       e) The usage of visual images can change from their inception with an intended use
25         to a later use due to circumstances;
       f) The visual image is visually judged;
       g) The visual image cannot readily be measurably assessed

                                                     5
   [0027]        It is to be understood that, if any prior art information is referred to herein, such
   reference does not constitute an admission that the information forms part of the common
   general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
 5 Summary of the Invention
     [0028]     The invention provides a method of controlling the display of an image
         including the steps of:
       a) Allowing area measurement of at least part of a displayed varied scaled display
           by:
10         i) Measuring the distance or area in the varied scaled display
           ii) Locking the relative XY plane of the display scale of the displayed image
           iii) Allowing variable scale of display of the visual image in the locked XY plane
                display scale
           iv) Automatically scaling the varied scaled display from the locked scale
15         v) Monitor the change in the variable scale of display
           vi) Providing a virtual image blanket over an area
           vii) Determining the actual measured area in the varied scaled display by the
                monitored change in the variable scale of display from the locked scale
   [0029]        It can be seen that this system allows the user to both measure and furnish an
20 existing floor plan without the need to initially re-create or re-draw the floor plan in any
   way.
   [0030]        In accordance with the invention there is provided a method for creating a
   complex image product, comprising:
       a) Providing a computer system for receiving a primary image on which is to be
25         formed a complex image product;
       b) storing a library of a plurality of secondary images for use in the creation of the
           complex image product by the computer system;
       c) receiving a command from a user with at least one relative scale dimension of a
           portion of the primary image;

                                                  6
       d) scaling the primary image by the computer system to provide a determined scale;
       e) locking the determined scale of the primary image to a display of the primary
           image;
       f) providing the computer system with a scaling locking control which tracks the
 5         change of the scale of the primary image as the primary image display is changed;
       g) automatically identifying one or more selected secondary images from the stored
           plurality of secondary images based on the input of user defined specification
           parameters for inclusion in the image product by the computer system;
       h) modify the primary image display or the one or more selected secondary images
10         to match the tracked locked scale of the primary image to the scale of the
           secondary images in the library;
       i) and automatically create, by the computer system, a complex image product that
           incorporates at least some of the secondary images identified based on the
           specification parameters in combination with the primary image and with all at the
15         same scale.
   [0031]       The secondary images in the library specify one or more image sources from
   which the images are to be obtained, wherein a scale is matched to each of the secondary
   images in the library wherein the step of automatically identifying comprises identifying
   images and its respective scale.
20 [0032]       The identifying images can include
     * the one or more examples in the images of the one or more types of contents.
     *   identifying images that are associated with the particular type of primary image.
     *   identifying images that are taken from the selected range of the selected provider
         according to the user defined specification parameters.
25 [0033]       The method can have the secondary images in the library specify one or more
   image product types, wherein one or more of the scales are matched to at least one
   specification term in the library that specifies an image product type, wherein the design
   for the image product is automatically created in the image product type.
   [0034]       The secondary images in the library can specify a recipient for an image
30 product, wherein one or more of the scales are matched to a specification term in the

                                                  7
   library that specifies a recipient for an image product, wherein the physical manifestation
   of the image product is sent to the recipient after the step of manufacturing with the locked
   determined scale and is reproducible by the recipient with a tracked locked determined
   scale
 5 [0035]       Preferably the method further comprises selecting a subset of the identified
   secondary images, wherein a number of the identified images in the subset is within a
   predetermined scale compatible with the determined image product scale.
   [0036]       The user defined specification parameters can specify a style or a format for
   producing a final output complex image product, wherein one or more of the scales are
10 matched to at least one specification term in the library that specifies a style or a format
   for the final output complex image product, wherein the design for the final output complex
   image product is automatically created in the style or the format.
   [0037]       The method further comprises manufacturing a physical manifestation of the
   complex image product based on the user defined specification parameters design for
15 the image product for display or printout.
   [0038]       The invention provides one or more of:
     " a method and system for providing a useable variable footprint area of a visual image
     *   a method of determining and using measurable components in the variable footprint
         area
20   *   a method and system for determining footprint area,
     * or to at least improvements which will overcome or substantially ameliorate at least
         one or more of the deficiencies of the above or of the prior art,
     " or to at least provide an alternative.
   [0039]       In accordance with the invention there is provided a method for providing a
25 useable variable footprint area of a visual image including the steps of:
        a) Providing a visual image in an undefined scale;
        b) Obtaining a measurement of a real dimension of at least a part of the visual image;
        c) Measuring a corresponding dimension of at least a part of the visual image in the
           undefined scale;

                                                    8
       d) Calculating the actual scale of the at least a part of the visual image; and
       e) Locking the visual image in an undefined scale to relate to a locked scale in the
           corresponding actual scale; and wherein the image provides a useable variable
           footprint area of a visual image
 5   [0040]      The method can comprise the further steps of:
           i) Providing a variable visual image expansion in consistent X and Y dimension
                scaling;
           ii) Providing a linked expansion tracker for tracking percentage expansion of the
                variable visual image expansion in consistent X and Y dimension scaling from
10              the locked scale;
           iii) Determining the expanded scale from the locked scale
           iv) Providing details of at least part of the visual image in the variable visual image
                expansion in consistent X and Y dimension scaling according to the determined
                expanded scale.
15 [0041]        According to a further aspect of the present invention a method and system for
   determining footprint area is provided by providing an image layer of a visual 2
   dimensional image to be measured and stretching a virtual footprint layer over the visual
   image layer and determining the area of the virtual footprint layer
   [0042]        It can be seen that the invention for determining footprint area provides the
20 benefit of allowing use of using a method and system for providing a useable variable
   footprint area of a visual image in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present
   invention such that the footprint area can be determined from unscaled visual image.
   [0043]        According to a still further aspect of the present invention, a method and
   system for determining footprint area is provided by determining the area of the virtual
25 footprint layer by virtually dissecting into maximum sized polygons and determining area
   of each polygon and summing determined areas.
   [0044]        It can be seen that the invention for determining footprint area provides the
   benefit of not requiring layering over a predefined scaled array of predefined sized pixels
   which limits sizing and limits resolution and accuracy but instead allows free sizing and
30 accurate mathematical sizing of unrestricted accuracy.

                                                  9
   [0045]     According to another aspect of the present invention, a method and system for
   determining footprint area is provided by scaling the determined summed area by scale
   measurement to determine actual footprint area.
   [0046]      In one form the invention provides a method of controlling the display of an
 5 image including the steps of allowing distance measurement of at least part of a displayed
   varied scaled display by:
               i.    Measuring the distance in the varied scaled display
               ii.   Locking the relative XY plane of the display scale of the displayed image
               iii.  Allowing variable scale of display of the visual image in the locked XY
10             plane display scale
               iv.   Automatically scaling the varied scaled display from the locked scale
              v.     Monitor the change in the variable scale of display
              vi.    Determining the actual measured distance in the varied scaled display by
              the monitored change in the variable scale of display from the locked scale
15 [0047]     The method of controlling the display of an image can further include the steps
   of:
        allowing area measurement of at least part of a displayed varied scaled display by:
               i.    Measuring the distance in the varied scaled display
               ii.   Locking the relative XY plane of the display scale of the displayed image
20             iii.  Allowing variable scale of display of the visual image in the locked XY
               plane display scale
               iv.   Automatically scaling the varied scaled display from the locked scale
              v.     Monitor the change in the variable scale of display
              vi.    Providing a virtual image blanket over an area
25            vii.   Determining the actual measured area in the varied scaled display by the
               monitored change in the variable scale of display from the locked scale;
        wherein the method and system can be substantially assembled with improvements
               including any one or more of the following:

                                                   10
                  i. improvements in structure and assembly
                 ii. improvements in visual images being determined into a known scale;
               iii.  improvements in tracking visual images in changing scale when
                     displayed online even if not initially in known scale;
 5             iv.   improvements in versatility of using multiple visual images such as being
                     merged or used together as their individual scale is known even if the
                     scales initially are different;
                v.   improvements       in visual images providing visual effects that are
                     understandable in size, scale, interrelation, perspective etc;
10            vi.    improvements in allowing the usage of visual images which can change
                     use from their inception with an intended use to a later use due to
                     circumstances;
              vii.   improvements in allowing visual image to be visually judged;
             viii.   improvements in the visual image being readily measurably assessed.
15 [0048]    Also the invention can provide a method for creating a complex image product,
      which can provide a scaled visual image product for automatically determining linear
      or area dimensions of selected linear or area portions of the complex image
      comprising:
   *  Providing a floorplan for inclusion into a computer system by scanning and forming
20    a base image but without a known scale;
   *  The system using a ruler to equate a known dimension in reality with an identified
      point to point on the drawing of the base image wherein the scale of the image is
      determined;
   *  locking the now determined scale of the determined image online wherein any
25    variation in the drawing will have a scale that is tracked with the changing of the
      drawing;
   *  providing a plurality of secondary images in a store in the system which could be at
      a known scale;

                                                  ll
     * overlaying the secondary images on the base image to form complex image product
        with both at the same scale by one or more of the steps of:
     *  changing the scale of the tracked base image;
     *  locking the scale of the secondary image and changing the scale of the tracked base
 5      image;
     *  matching base image with selection of selected secondary images with same scale;
     *  whereby there is consistency between the primary base image of the floorplan and
        the scale of the overlaying secondary images;
     *   Providing a virtual line along a dimension or image blanket over an area
10   *  determining a length of a straight line as a ruler but instead of distance the blanket
        determines area by reference to the scale;
     *  wherein the system allows the user to measure with an existing unscaled floor plan
        without the need to initially re-create or re-draw the floor plan in any way.
   [0049]      Other aspects of the invention are also disclosed.
15
   Brief Description of the Drawings
   [0050]      Notwithstanding any other forms which may fall within the scope of the present
   invention, a preferred embodiment of the invention will now be described, by way of
   example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
20       Fig. 1 is a diagrammatic view of an unscaled primary display and secondary displays
         and difficulty of combining in the prior art;
         Figs. 2 and 3 are diagrammatic views of converting of primary display to a locked
         scaled display to determine a scale 1:X and then allow controlled expansion of
         display image to 1:A and follow changed scale rate to allow inclusion of secondary
25       image at the followed scale matching the secondary image scale in accordance with
         an embodiment of the invention of creating a complex visual image;
         Fig. 4 is a diagrammatic view of an unscaled display having an unscaled visual
         image and a locked scaled display of a scaled visual image using a method and
         system for providing a useable variable footprint area of a visual image in
30       accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention;

                                                 12
         Fig. 5 is a flow diagram of a method and system for providing a useable variable
        footprint area of a visual image in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the
         present invention;
         Fig. 6 is a diagrammatic view of a varied tracked display having a varied tracked
 5       scaled visual image from the locked scaled display of a scaled visual image of Fig
        4 using a method and system for providing a useable variable footprint area of a
        visual image in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention;
         Fig. 7 is a method and system for providing a useable variable visual image in
         accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention;
10       Fig 8 is a modified computer having input and output display for providing a varied
         tracked display having a varied tracked scaled visual image from the locked scaled
         display of a scaled visual image using a method and system for providing a useable
        variable footprint area of a visual image in accordance with a preferred embodiment
         of the present invention;
15       Fig. 9 is a diagrammatic view of the modified components of a system for providing
         a useable variable footprint area of a visual image in accordance with a preferred
         embodiment of the present invention; and
         Figs 10 to 14 are connected diagrammatic view of the interconnection of a system
        for providing a useable variable footprint area of a visual image in accordance with
20       a preferred embodiment of the present invention; and
         Figs. 15 to 23 are various pages of an app for implementing a method and system
        for providing a useable variable footprint area of a visual image in accordance with
         a preferred embodiment of the present invention.
25 Description of Preferred Embodiments
   [0051]      It should be noted in the following description that like or the same reference
   numerals in different embodiments denote the same or similar features.
   [0052]      Referring to Figs 2 and 3 there is shown the effects of the method for creating
   a complex image product 15. This comprises providing a computer system for receiving
30 a primary image 11 on which is to be formed a complex image product 15. However the
   primary image has an unknown scale 1: ?.
   [0053]      There can be a plurality of secondary images 13, 14 which are to be included

                                                   13
   or are already storied in a library of a plurality of secondary images for use in the creation
   of the complex image product 15 by the computer system. These secondary images 13,
   14 can be a range of contents or a range of furniture or a particular company's range of
   furniture.
 5 [0054]       Initially, as will be described more fully, the computer system receives a
   command from a user with at least one relative scale dimension of a portion of the primary
   image. This allows the computer system to scale the primary image from the unknown
   scale 1:? To a determined scale of 1:A.
   [0055]       The scale is then locked at the determined scale 1: A of the primary image 11
10 and can be set to a display of the primary image 11 to the locked scale primary image 12.
   [0056]       The computer system is programmed to provide a scaling locking control which
   tracks the change of the scale of the primary image as the primary image display is
   changed. The locked scale primary image 12 can then be sized to allow display on the
   display platform 15 at the required scale. That is the locked scale primary image 12 might
15 fit onto a portion of a presentation page or as a house plan onto a display of a land site
   and therefore only take a portion of the display. However the display 15 and the locked
   scale primary image 12 have been transferred from initial locked scale of 1: A to the
   tracked locked scale of 1: X which then matches the locked primary image 12 with the
   display 15 at consistent 1:X.
20 [0057]       From the user defined specification parameters for inclusion in the image
   product by the computer system, there is automatic identifying of one or more selected
   secondary images 13, 14 from the stored plurality of secondary images for the image.
   This can entail modifying the primary image display from 1:X to the 1:10 of the one or
   more selected secondary images 13 to match the tracked locked scale of the primary
25 image to the scale of the secondary images in the library and then to automatically create,
   by the computer system, a complex image product that incorporates at least some of the
   secondary images identified based on the specification parameters in combination with
   the primary image and with all at the same scale.
   [0058]       The user defined specification parameters specify a style or a format for
30 producing a final output complex image product, wherein one or more of the scales are
   matched to at least one specification term in the library that specifies a style or a format
   for the final output complex image product, wherein the design for the final output complex

                                                  14
   image product is automatically created in the style or the format.
   [0059]      The method further creates a physical manifestation of the complex image
   product based on the user defined specification parameters design for the image product
   for display or printout.
 5 [0060]       Looking at the process in more detail and referring to Fig. 4 there is a method
   and system for providing a useable variable footprint area of a visual image. This can be
   considered the visual plan aspect of the visual images to form the complex visual image
   product.
   [0061]      As shown in Fig. 4 the initial unscaled display 21 has an unscaled visual image
10 25 with unknown X-axis scale X? and an unknown Y-axis scale Y?. However, it is the
   result of the method using the system to arrive at a locked scaled display 31 of a scaled
   visual image 35 with known locked X-axis scale LX and known locked Y-axis scale LY.
   Clearly with the two-dimensional locked visual image 35 it is preferable that the locked X
   axis scale LX and locked Y-axis scale LY are also locked relative to each other.
15 [0062]      The method and system for providing a useable variable footprint area of a
   visual image can be used on a wide range of visual images which can be in a drawn or
   printed state or formed by a photograph and particularly a plan view photograph. The
   system can import the visual image as an image, PDF file (which gets converted
   automatically to an image), also a scanned image using the camera. The visual images
20 in which it is important to have a scale but are often not presented in a usable scale or by
   photocopying reprinting etc. has not maintained its original scale can include:
       a) a floorplan
       b) a geographical plan
       c) a map
25     d) a geographical boundary map
       e) a site map
       f) a site plan
       g) a subdivision
       h) a plan of subdivision
30     i) a single house plan
       j)  a multiple lot plan
       k) a multiple unit plan

                                                 15
       I) a development plan
       m) a real estate marketing floor plan
       n) architectural floor plans
       o) engineering floor plans
 5     p) town planning floor plans
   [0063]     The system can export the edited plan as an image or PDF. This can include
   modified inclusions such as furniture to the same scale.
   [0064]     Looking at the method and system in detail and referring initially to Fig. 5 with
   reference to Fig. 4 there is the step 111 of providing a visual image 25 in an undefined
10 scale on the unscaled display 21 and is therefore not in a usable form for any measuring
   or scaling uses.
   [0065]     By Step 112 a portion such as line 36 on the unscaled image 25 is used to
   obtain a measurement of a real dimension of at least a part of the visual image 25 and in
   Step 113 of measuring a corresponding dimension 26 of at least a part of the visual image
15 in the undefined scale display 21 of the unscaled image 25. This can be used in Step
   114 for calculating the actual scale of the at least a part of the visual image; and in Step
   115 of locking the visual image 25 in an undefined scale X?-Y? to relate to a locked scale
   display 31 of the scaled image 35 in the corresponding actual scale LX-LY. This allows
   Step 116 of using the locked scale image 35
20 [0066]     Referring to Fig. 6 there is provided by the method and system a varied tracked
   display 41 having a varied tracked scaled visual image 45 from the locked scaled display
   31 of a scaled visual image 35 of Fig 1. This can be used in any scale from thereon using
   the method and system for providing a useable variable footprint area of a visual image
   in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention.
25 [0067]     Referring to Fig. 7 with reference to Fig. 6 there is shown a method and system
   120 for providing a useable variable visual image. This is achieved with the further step
   121 of providing a variable visual image 45 expansion of the locked scaled image 35 in
   consistent known varied scaled X and Y dimension scaling EX-EY.
   [0068]     Step 122 provides the use of a linked expansion tracker 120 for tracking
30 percentage expansion by a scaler 115 of the variable visual image 45 expansion in
   consistent X and Y dimension scaling from the locked scale visual image 35 and in Step
   123 determining the expanded scale EX-EY from the locked scale LX-LY.

                                                  16
   [0069]      Step 124 allows providing details of at least part 46 of the variable visual image
   visual image 45 in the variable visual image expansion in consistent X and Y dimension
   scaling according to the determined expanded scale by the linked expansion tracker 120
   for tracking percentage expansion by a scaler 115. This allows in step 125 using the
 5 determined expanded scaled image 41 for a range of uses.
   [0070]      Referring to Fig. 8 there is a modified computer having input and output display
   and linked expansion tracker 120 for tracking percentage expansion by a scaler 115 for
   providing a varied tracked display having a varied tracked scaled visual image from the
   locked scaled display of a scaled visual image using a method and system for providing
10 a useable variable footprint area.
   [0071]      In Fig. 9 there is shown a conceptual block view of the modified components
   of a system for providing a useable variable footprint area of a visual image.
   [0072]      In particular in block 100 there are inputs such as display image input 101 for
   providing the unscaled visual image 25.
15 [0073]      In block 110 there is the scaler 115 using the inputs 101, 102, 103 from the
   input module 100 linked expansion tracker 120 for tracking percentage expansion by a
   scaler 115 for providing a varied tracked display 41.
   [0074]      In block 120 there is the display block in which an original unscaled display 21
   can be transformed to a locked scaled display 31 and used to form any varying scaled
20 display 41 with the scaling block 110 maintaining control and oversight through the linked
   expansion tracker 120 for tracking percentage expansion by the scaler 115 for providing
   a varied tracked display.
   [0075]      In block 130 there are a number of uses of the display block 120 including on
   the display allowing measured scale distance 300 or measured scaled area 330 or by
25 allowing addition or merger of other visual images in scaled format due to the ability to
   scale any unscaled visual image into a locked scaled image 31 and to any further varied
   scaled image 41. It can also be seen that changeability allows variations of accuracy and
   precision and detail to be selectively altered without limitation of display.
30 [0076]      Example A
   [0077]      In an initial example, a customer can come into a store, such as a furniture
   store, a plumbing supplies store, a renovation or design store, and provide a base

                                                   17
   drawing. This drawing can be of a floorplan of their residence and be inherently to scale
   relative to each component. That is one wall is correctly scaled relatively to the other wall
   etc. However, the drawing itself has no scale. That is, it is impossible to know by looking
   at it - what scale is it? Further it could have been a reprint of a scaled drawing but by the
 5 printing the scale is again unknown.
   [0078]       This drawing of the floorplan of their residence can be included into the
   computer system by scanning. However still the scale is not known.
   [0079]       A ruler can be used to equate a known dimension in reality with an identified
   point to point on the drawing of the base image. In this way, the scale of the image is
10 determined.
   [0080]       The ruler can be a physical or virtual ruler. However, it also could be a point
   to point linear calculation method or a drag along calculator virtual tape measurer or a
   virtual blanket that is stretched over a shaped area or other type of dimensioning tool.
   [0081]       An important element is that the now determined scale of the determined
15 image online is locked. Therefore, any variation in the drawing will have a scale that is
   tracked with the changing of the drawing. In this way, the scale of the drawing remains
   known.
   [0082]       If the scale of the floorplan of their residence happens to be determined as
   1:10 then there can be a plurality of secondary images in a store in the system which
20 could be at a known scale of 1:20. Clearly it is not of any use to combine secondary
   images at scale of 1:20 over primary image of scale 1:10.
   [0083]       Therefore, the system can allow, with the locked scale system, the ready
   changing of the scale of the floorplan of their residence from 1:10 to 1:20 scale. Now
   there is consistency between the primary image of the floorplan and the scale of the
25 secondary images of the furniture in the stored database.
   [0084]       In this form articles of furniture in diagram form as secondary images in the
   store in the system which could be at a known scale of 1:20 can be selected and dragged
   as an overlay over the primary image of the floorplan of their residence at the same known
   scale of 1:20 to form a complex image. The user then can see exactly in visual form how
30 the furniture fits in and matches the floorplan. Further if the floorplan image has colouring
   and image details then the furniture can also be assessed aesthetically in the combined
   complex image.
   [0085]       It can be seen that this system allows the user to both measure and furnish an

                                                 18
   existing floor plan without the need to initially re-create or re-draw the floor plan in any
   way.
   [0086]      Example B
 5 [0087]      In another example, the customer comes into a store without a floorplan.
   [0088]      The system can create a floorplan by any system including one or more of the
   following:
       a) A database of standard shaped rooms;
       b) A standard rectangular room that can be stretched to form the rectangular shape
10         according to the customer;
       c) A plurality of room components that can be selected and joined;
       d) A drawing system that allows drawing of a floorplan.
   [0089]      Following this initial step or pre-step, the customer now has a floorplan.
   However, it is not to any known scale.
15 [0090]      The further steps can then be followed of using a ruler to equate a known
   dimension in reality with an identified point to point on the drawing of the base image. In
   this way, the scale of the image is determined.
   [0091]      Then the now determined scale of the determined image online is locked.
   Therefore, any variation in the drawing will have a scale that is tracked with the changing
20 of the drawing. In this way, the scale of the drawing remains known.
   [0092]      The system can allow, with the locked scale system, the ready changing of the
   scale of the floorplan of their residence from 1:10 to 1:20 scale. In this form articles of
   furniture in diagram form as secondary images in the store in the system which could be
   at a known scale of 1:20 can be selected and dragged as an overlay over the primary
25 image of the floorplan of their residence at the same known scale of 1:20 to form a
   complex image.
   [0093]      The user then can see exactly in visual form how the furniture fits in and
   matches the floorplan. Further if the floorplan image has colouring and image details then
   the furniture can also be assessed aesthetically in the combined complex image.
30
   [0094]      Example C
   [0095]      In a further example, the steps of pre-step of creating a floorplan or initial step
   of providing a floorplan without a known scale occurs. The image is uploaded and by use

                                                 19
   of a real or virtual ruler and with some information of a real dimension the scale is
   determined. This scale is then locked to this image such that changing of the image
   allows tracking of changing of the scale to a known scale such as 1:10.
   [0096]      However even though the scale of the primary image of the floorplan is known
 5 at 1:10 it can be that it does not match the secondary images of furniture which might be
   known to be at 1:20. However it could be that the scale of the secondary images are not
   known or are not presently in stored database at known scale. .
   [0097]      Therefore, the secondary images can proceed through a process of the
   secondary images being uploaded and by use of a real or virtual ruler and with some
10 information of a real dimension the scale is determined. This scale is then locked to these
   secondary images such that changing of the image allows tracking of changing of the
   scale to a known scale such as 1:20.
   [0098]      The step of matching the locked scale of the primary image to the locked scale
   of the secondary image can be by manipulating the primary image such that the locked
15 scale tracks the changing of the primary image to maintain a known but changed scale of
   the primary image until it reaches the scale of 1:20 and thereby matches the secondary
   image.
   [0099]      Similarly, the step of matching the locked scale of the primary image to the
   locked scale of the secondary image can be by manipulating the secondary image such
20 that the locked scale tracks the changing of the secondary image to maintain a known
   but changed scale of the secondary image until it reaches the scale of 1:10 and thereby
   matches the primary image.
   [00100]     With the primary and secondary images having the same locked scale
   (whether 1:10 in one form or 1:20 in the other form) by having them matched they can be
25 overlayed at the same scale to provide a useful complex image.
   [00101]     Example D
   [00102]     In another example, there can be the creation of a locked scale primary and/or
   secondary image or final complex image and then a computer process such as sending
30 to a printer or transferring to another file or transmitting over a communication system.
   By the locking of the scale to the drawing the system can determine the transformation
   by the process and thereby maintain the drawing with a determined scale.
   [00103]     In a simple mode, the computer screen can be displaying an A4 page at 85%

                                                 20
   but then send to the printer for printing at actual A4 100% size. Therefore, the known
   scale of locked image on screen is in effect changed from 85% to 100% and the locked
   scale can follow that scale and determine the new scale of the image in the new format.
   [00104]     Similarly, a locked scale image can be determined at one location on one
 5 computer and then be transmitted and the locked function follows the transformation and
   that the transmitted image maintains a locked known scale.
   [00105]     It is at this second location that other parts of the system of overlaying of
   secondary images over the transmitted primary image with matching of known locked
   scales controlled by the locking and tracking mechanism of the system.
10
   [00106]     Example E
   [00107]     In another example, a person can present a floorplan that is not scaled. The
   image is uploaded and by use of a real or virtual ruler and with some information of a real
   dimension the scale is determined. This scale is then locked to this image such that
15 changing of the image allows tracking of changing of the scale to a known scale such as
   1:10. This allows the locked image to ne changed but having the locked scale follow the
   change and thereby always have a known scale to the image.
   [00108]     There can be the creation of a locked scale primary and/or secondary image
   or final complex image and then a blanket is dragged over a section of the image. This
20 blanket is like a point to point drag in determining a length of a straight line as a ruler but
   instead of distance the blanket determines area. This can only be done by the image
   having been locked at a particular scale and an area calculation able to be undertaken of
   the image and then by the scale determined the actual area that the blanketed area
   represents.
25 [00109]     The substantial benefit therefore is that the person arriving with the unscaled
   floorplan can then have the amount of area of carpeting or flooring needed and proper
   quotations achieved. It also allows visualization of the floorplan with the furniture or
   cupboards included and with colouring or textures included.
   [00110]     Also, there can be overlaying of blankets. This can be to include furniture or
30 inbuilt cupboards or inbuilt kitchen island benches to be included as overlays in the
   complex image and the differences of the areas of the overlaying blankets used on the
   known scaled complex image to provide the accurate floor area that still requires tiles or
   floorboards or other flooring.

                                                 21
   [00111]     Application of a Preferred Embodiment.
   [00112]     Referring to Figs. 10 to 14 there is a connected wireframe of a computer
   application showing operation of a particular form of the invention in which
 5     a) A in Fig. 10 connects to A in Fig. 11.
       b) B in Fig 11 connects to B in Fig. 14 and
       c) L in Fig 11 connects to L in Fig 12.
       d) X in Fig 13 joins back to X in Fig 10 and
       e) M in Fig 13 joins from M in Fig 14.
10 [00113]     In Fig. 10 it is shown that by initial connection to Splash the user can sign in
   and directly pass to the main menu if a member or divert through a sign up process before
   arriving at the main menu. At the main menu, the user can arrange inputs such as load
   plan which will then be saved online or import photo which will be saved to the photo
   gallery or scan plan by use of camera or the like.
15 [00114]     In Fig 11 there is the home editing panel in which a number of actions of those
   saved images can be manipulated such as by rotate plan or set scale or lock scale. These
   operations will be discussed further at later stage. In the set scale approach, there are
   the three elements of setting the units into imperial or metric, using a ruler on screen that
   has a particular colour so as to be used to define the measured line and rotating of that
20 ruler to locate where it is required.
   [00115]     In Fig. 12 are the step of Lock Scale which can be saved or updated. However
   also it provides three options of allowing measuring and using colour to aid in the
   measurer.     As well there can be drawing by use of online pen, colouring and online
   eraser. Also, there can be furnishing of the space with selection from online furniture
25 category, and sub-category so that furniture icons in the locked scale can be added.
   [00116]     Figs 13 and 14 show further useful elements to the computer application.
   [00117]     Figs. 15 to 23 are various screenshot pages of a set of functions and
   procedures of applications which access the features or data of an operating system,
   application, or other serviceman app for implementing a method and system for providing
30 a useable variable footprint area of a visual image in accordance with an embodiment of

                                                 22
   the invention.
   [00118]     In Fig. 15 an unscaled visual image 21 which in this case is a real estate house
   floorplan can be uplifted and shown on a screenshot with a lower control bar. The control
   bar includes input controls 200 including button 201 for load plan instruction, and button
 5 202 for import photo instruction and then ability by button 203 for select plan if various
   uploads have entered various unscaled images 21 to the memory. Also in the control bar
   are scale controls 210 including scale unlocked button 211 indicating that the image 21
   is an unscaled image. There is further set scale instruction button 212 for controlling the
   process.
10 [00119]     In Fig. 16 after the button 212 has instigated that action a ruler 215 is applied
   to the unscaled image 21 with buttons 216 able to adapt the colour from Red to another
   colour so that it is more readily visible over the image. The scale of the ruler 215 can be
   adapted by the ruler scale button 217 such as changing between Metric and Imperial
   scales. Also, there is button 218 allowing adaption of orientation of the ruler 215 on the
15 display.
   [00120]     As shown in Fig. 17 the unscaled image 21 can be enlarged and a portion 21A
   shown on the scale with the ruler 215 overlaying the image. This can allow better
   accuracy in obtaining measurement and detail and that an ever-variable accuracy is
   possible to any unscaled image 21.
20 [00121]     Further as shown in Fig. 18 by use of the button 218 it allows adaption of
   orientation of the ruler 215 to an orthogonal position relative to Fig. 14 and therefore
   measurement in an orthogonal axis of the display 21A.            This can allow choice of
   measurement or increased accuracy in orthogonal axes.
   [00122]     By application of that visual image scale to the matching measurement in
25 reality the unscaled display 21 can become as shown in Fig. 19 a scaled display 31. This
   scaled display 31 is then locked as indicated by button 213 showing the scale locked.
   The image 31 then has a locked LX-LY scale in the X-axis and Y-axis and between each
   other.
   [00123]     As shown in Fig 20 the visual image 31 can be varied to a different varying
30 scaled image 41 and displayed as such. However as shown by button 213 it is in a scaled
   locked format and therefore the linked expansion tracker 120 for tracking percentage
   expansion by a scaler 115 of the variable visual image 45 expansion in consistent X and

                                                  23
   Y dimension scaling from the locked scale visual image 35.
   [00124]     There can be multiple uses of such display. In Fig. 21 the display has again
   been modified to a different varying scaled design 41 but as per button 213 it is in scaled
   format with scale being tracked from the locked scale image 31. The display can have
 5 any two points 301 and 303 indicated anywhere on the varying scale display 41 in tracked
   variability locked scale format and a line 302 can be automatically determined and
   automatically calculated to the real-life measurement without the display 41 being in any
   fixed form.     This allows better selection and use while maintaining accuracy and
   adaptability.
10 [00125]      Referring to Fig. 22 there is shown a use of a method and system for providing
   a useable variable footprint area of a visual image by providing an image layer of a visual
   2-dimensional image to be measured and stretching a virtual footprint layer 330 over the
   visual image layer 41 and determining the area of the virtual footprint layer. This virtual
   footprint layer can also be defined by clicking numerous points 311, 312, 313 ... 320 and
15 then the points are joined by the lines in-between and the area 330 between the in
   between lines. This allows selection of various portions such as to determine the area
   that will be carpeted or the area with polished floorboards etc. This results in this case at
   95.32 sq. metres.
   [00126]      In another form, the invention includes determining the area of the virtual
20 footprint layer by virtually dissecting into maximum sized polygons and determining area
   of each polygon and summing determined areas.
   [00127]      Further there can be still another form of the invention which includes scaling
   the determined summed area by scale measurement to determine actual footprint area.
   [00128]     As shown in Fig. 23 by instigation of control button 340 a range of furniture
25 inputs 341 to 346 can appear so that the varying scaled image detail 41C such as one or
   more rooms can be furnished. Since the image 41C is a varying scale image it must be
   in the tracked varying locked scale format as shown by button 213. Further the furniture
   can be in their tracked varying locked scale format by previous uploads or in a library and
   button 340 allows the merger of these separately scaled images 41A, 41B or 41C to be
30 formed into matching scale EX-EY regardless of the varying scale of the varying scaled
   image 41A. That is the images are scaled accordingly, matched and merged without
   needing to be bound by matching input displays or input scales.

                                                 24
   [00129]     Clearly it is shown that the present invention provides a technical improvement
   to displays and their creation and implementation that is aimed at overcoming or
   ameliorating one or more of the multitude of problems of the prior art.
   [00130]     Therefore, it can be seen that the invention determines a scale of a floor plan
 5 in the form of a visual image, regardless of its size or dimensions. By knowing the exact
   length of a particular part of that image, regardless of its direction and regardless of its
   location on the image, the system can use a ruler (scaler) with unified dimensions and
   the user use the ruler to input the length of any part of the visual image which is used to
   determine scale. If the ruler is reduced in size by 20% then the visual image is called
10 20% smaller than the ruler and vice versa.
   [00131]     To obtain scale S here is the following requirement of:
                    S=X     * (RN/RO)
   [00132]     The scaler is set with fixed width RO (ruler original width) and is divided in
   scale along its length to a scale X (metre on the ruler). When the ruler is used its width
15 is either increased or reduced and to maintain relative dimension has width RN (ruler new
   width). The measuring unit on the screen can be the pixels so a goal is to translate pixels
   into metres.
   [00133]      If          RO = 1000 and X=100 but RN =2000,
               then         S=100*(2000/1000) = 100*2 =200
20 This means for that image, each metre will occupy 200 pixels, instead of the 100 pixels.
   [00134]     When a user wishes to undertake linear measurement, the user sets 2 points
   on the screen and wants to know the actual distance, the system determines the pixels
   and provides DM (distance measured). In this case the equation is:
                     DS = (DM/S).
25 This is achieved due to the locked scale and the distance of the set points.
                     DM = 400 pixels S = 200 pixels
   therefore DS = 400/200 = 2 metres.
   [00135]     When a user wishes to undertake area measurement, the user sets a few
   points on the screen and wants to know the area between them, the system determines
30 the pixels and provides AM (area measured). In this case the equation is:

                                                 25
                      AS = ((AM)/(S*S)).
   This is achieved due to the locked scale and the distance of the set points.
                      AM = 80000 pixels S = 200 pixels
   therefore AS = 80000/(200*200) = 2 metres squared.
 5 [00136]      Furniture icons are stored and the icons dimension maintain the same aspect
   ratio. When a user wishes to use furniture, the user selects a piece of furniture such as a
   dining table which is 2 by 1 metres. The icon originally would be 20*10 pixels.
   [00137]      Due to the locked scale S the furniture icon width FWO is scaled to the new
   width FWS by:
10                    FWS = FWO * S
   And similarly furniture icon height FHO is scaled to the new width FHS by
                      FHS = FHO * S
   So with FWO = 2 metres and FHO = 1 metre and S = 200 pixels
   therefore FWS = 2*200 = 400 pixels and
15        FHS = 1*200 = 200 pixels.
   [00138]      This is using the pixel method but other methods can be used.
   Interpretation
   Embodiments:
20 [00139]      Reference throughout this specification to "one embodiment"               or "an
   embodiment" means that a particular feature, structure or characteristic described in
   connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present
   invention. Thus, appearances of the phrases "in one embodiment" or "in an embodiment"
   in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same
25 embodiment, but may. Furthermore, the particular features, structures or characteristics
   may be combined in any suitable manner, as would be apparent to one of ordinary skill
   in the art from this disclosure, in one or more embodiments.
   [00140]      Similarly, it should be appreciated that in the above description of example
   embodiments of the invention, various features of the invention are sometimes grouped

                                                   26
   together in a single embodiment, figure, or description thereof for the purpose of
   streamlining the disclosure and aiding in the understanding of one or more of the various
   inventive aspects. This method of disclosure, however, is not to be interpreted as
   reflecting an intention that the claimed invention requires more features than are
 5 expressly recited in each claim. Rather, as the following claims reflect, inventive aspects
   lie in less than all features of a single foregoing disclosed embodiment. Thus, the claims
   following the Detailed Description of Specific Embodiments are hereby expressly
   incorporated into this Detailed Description of Specific Embodiments, with each claim
   standing on its own as a separate embodiment of this invention.
10
   [00141]      Furthermore, while some embodiments described herein include some but not
   other features included in other embodiments, combinations of features of different
   embodiments are meant to be within the scope of the invention, and form different
   embodiments, as would be understood by those in the art. For example, in the following
15 claims, any of the claimed embodiments can be used in any combination.
   Different Instances of Objects
   [00142]      As used herein, unless otherwise specified the use of the ordinal adjectives
   "first", "second", "third", etc., to describe a common object, merely indicate that different
20 instances of like objects are being referred to, and are not intended to imply that the
   objects so described must be in a given sequence, either temporally, spatially, in ranking,
   or in any other manner.
   Specific Details
25 [00143]      In the description provided herein, numerous specific details are set forth.
   However, it is understood that embodiments of the invention may be practiced without
   these specific details. In other instances, well-known methods, structures and techniques
   have not been shown in detail in order not to obscure an understanding of this description.
30 Terminology
   [00144]      In describing the preferred embodiment of the invention illustrated in the
   drawings, specific terminology will be resorted to for the sake of clarity. However, the
   invention is not intended to be limited to the specific terms so selected, and it is to be
   understood that each specific term includes all technical equivalents which operate in a

                                                27
   similar manner to accomplish a similar technical purpose. Terms such as "forward",
   "rearward", "radially", "peripherally", "upwardly", "downwardly", and the like are used as
   words of convenience to provide reference points and are not to be construed as limiting
   terms.
 5
   Comprising and Including
   [00145]     In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention,
   except where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
   implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" are
10 used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to
   preclude the presence or addition of further features in various embodiments of the
   invention.
   [00146]     Any one of the terms: including or which includes or that includes as used
   herein is also an open term that also means including at least the elements/features that
15 follow the term, but not excluding others. Thus, including is synonymous with and means
   comprising.
   Scope of Invention
   [00147]     Thus, while there has been described what are believed to be the preferred
20 embodiments of the invention, those skilled in the art will recognize that other and further
   modifications may be made thereto without departing from the spirit of the invention, and
   it is intended to claim all such changes and modifications as fall within the scope of the
   invention.    For example, any formulas given above are merely representative of
   procedures that may be used. Functionality may be added or deleted from the block
25 diagrams and operations may be interchanged among functional blocks. Steps may be
   added or deleted to methods described within the scope of the present invention.
   [00148]     Although the invention has been described with reference to specific
   examples, it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the invention may be
   embodied in many other forms.
30
   Industrial Applicability

                                            28
[00149]    It is apparent from the above, that the arrangements described are applicable
to the geographical and real estate and graphical display industries as well as to the home
improvement industry including DIY supplies, furniture and home goods.

                                              29
Claims
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
    1. A method for creating a complex image product, comprising:
           a. Providing a computer system for receiving a primary image on which is
              to be formed a complex image product;
           b. storing a library of a plurality of secondary images for use in the creation
              of the complex image product by the computer system;
           c. receiving a command from a user with at least one relative scale
              dimension of a portion of the primary image;
           d. scaling the primary image by the computer system to provide a
              determined scale;
           e. locking the determined scale of the primary image to a display of the
              primary image;
          f. providing the computer system with a scaling locking control which
              tracks the change of the scale of the primary image as the primary image
              display is changed;
           g. automatically identifying one or more selected secondary images from
              the stored plurality of secondary images based on the input of user
              defined specification parameters for inclusion in the image product by
              the computer system;
           h. modify the primary image display or the one or more selected secondary
              images to match the tracked locked scale of the primary image to the
              scale of the secondary images in the library;
           i. and automatically create, by the computer system, a complex image
              product that incorporates at least some of the secondary images
              identified based on the specification parameters in combination with the
              primary image and with all at the same scale;
       wherein the secondary images in the library specify a type of primary image
       that the secondary images are associated with, wherein one or more of the
       scales are matched to the secondary images in the library that specify an
       occasion,

                                          30
   wherein the step of automatically identifying comprises identifying images that
   are associated with the particular type of primary image and allow for inclusion
   in the image product in the same matched scale;
   and wherein the user defined specification parameters specify a style or a
   format for producing a final output complex image product, wherein one or more
   of the scales are matched to at least one specification term in the library that
   specifies a style or a format for the final output complex image product, wherein
   the design for the final output complex image product is automatically created
   in the style or the format;
   and, if required, manufacturing a physical manifestation of the complex image
   product based on the user defined specification parameters design for the
   image product for display or printout.
2. A method for providing a useable variable footprint area of a visual image
   including the steps of:
       a. Providing a visual image in an undefined scale;
       b. Obtaining a measurement of a real dimension of at least a part of the
           visual image;
       c. Measuring a corresponding dimension of at least a part of the visual
           image in the undefined scale;
       d. Calculating the actual scale of the at least one part of the visual image;
           and
       e. Locking the visual image in an undefined scale to relate to a locked scale
           in the corresponding actual scale; and
wherein the image provides a useable variable footprint area of a visual image
   the further steps of:
       f.  Providing a variable visual image expansion in consistent X and Y
           dimension scaling;
       g. Providing a linked expansion tracker for tracking percentage expansion
           of the variable visual image expansion in consistent X and Y dimension
           scaling from the locked scale;

                                       31
   h. Determining the expanded scale from the locked scale
   i. Providing details of at least part of the visual image in the variable visual
      image expansion in consistent X and Y dimension scaling according to
      the determined expanded scale.
wherein the method for determining a footprint area of a visual image uses:
   a. a visual image capturer for capturing a visual image in two dimensions;
   b. a visual image display having
            i. a first display layer for displaying the captured visual image
           ii. a second display layer for displaying an overlaying measuring
               virtual image blanket layer
   c. a virtual image blanket for selecting and displaying in the second layer
      to overlay the visual image in the first layer selectable from a virtual
      image blanket menu enabling a virtual image blanket to be selected from
      the menu of possible basic geometric shapes including at least one or
      more of:
            i.   Triangle
           ii.   Rectangle
          iii.   Pentagon
          iv.    circle
           v.    ellipse
          vi.    crescent or
         vii.    freehand
   d. a virtual image blanket manipulator for manipulating the size and shape
      of the overlaying of the virtual image blanket
        viii.    wherein the virtual image blanket manipulator can grab points
                 on the circumference of the virtual image blanket and drag and
                 extend the virtual image blanket to the required overlaying
                 boundaries of the virtual image on the layer below
   e. an area determinator for determining the area of the virtual blanket.

                                         32
   wherein the visual image is an image or is a photographic image and is
   manipulated to form a planar image in the form of one of:
       a. a floorplan
       b. a geographical plan
       c. a map
       d. a geographical boundary map
       e. a site map
       f.  a site plan
       g. a subdivision
       h. a plan of subdivision
       i. a single house plan
       j. a multiple lot plan
       k. a multiple unit plan
       1. a development plan
       m. a real estate marketing floor plan
       n. architectural floor plans
       o. engineering floor plans
       p. town planning floor plans
3. An apparatus for determining a footprint area according to any one of claims 1
   or 2 further comprising the area determinator for determining the area of the
   virtual footprint layer having a virtual visual image dissector of the virtual image
   blanket by virtually dissecting into maximum basic geometric shapes and
   determining area of each basic geometric shapes and summing determined
   areas and further comprising the area determinator having a plurality of
   equations for determining areas of at least a preselected number of basic
   geometric shapes and further comprising scaling the determined summed area
   by scale measurement to determine actual footprint area.
4. A method of controlling the display of an image including the steps of:
       a. Providing a display of an image
       b. Determining a scale of the displayed image and determine a locked
           scale

                                       33
    c. Locking the relative XY plane of the display scale of the displayed image
    d. Allowing variable scale of display of the visual image in the locked XY
       plane display scale
    e. Monitor the change in the variable scale of display
    f.  Provide the determination of the variable scale by the monitored change
        in the variable scale from the locked scale.
further including one or more of the steps of:
    g. Allowing distance measurement of at least part of a displayed varied
        scaled display by:
              i. Measuring the distance in the varied scaled display
             ii. Locking the relative XY plane of the display scale of the displayed
                 image
            iii. Allowing variable scale of display of the visual image in the locked
                 XY plane display scale
            iv. Automatically scaling the varied scaled display from the locked
                 scale
             v. Monitor the change in the variable scale of display
           vi. Determining the actual measured distance in the varied scaled
                 display by the monitored change in the variable scale of display
                 from the locked scale
or the steps of:
    h. Allowing area measurement of at least part of a displayed varied scaled
        display by:
              i. Measuring the distance or area in the varied scaled display
             ii. Locking the relative XY plane of the display scale of the displayed
                 image
            iii. Allowing variable scale of display of the visual image in the locked
                 XY plane display scale

                                         34
              iv. Automatically scaling the varied scaled display from the locked
                   scale
               v. Monitor the change in the variable scale of display
              vi. Providing a virtual image blanket over an area
             vii. Determining the actual measured area in the varied scaled
                   display by the monitored change in the variable scale of display
                   from the locked scale
    or the steps of:
       i. Allowing area measurement of furniture or objects at least part of a
           displayed varied scaled display by:
                i. Measuring the distance or area of the furniture or objects in the
                   varied scaled display
               ii. Locking the relative XY plane of the furniture or objects
              iii.  Determining the locked display scale of the displayed visual
                   image
              iv. Allowing variable scale of display of the furniture or objects in the
                   locked XY plane display scale
               v. Automatically scaling the varied scaled display furniture or objects
                   from the variable scale of display to a locked scale matching the
                   locked display scale of the displayed visual image
              vi. Displaying the locked varied scaled display of the furniture or
                   objects in the locked variable scale of display of the visual image
                   both in the same locked scale.
5. A method for creating a complex image product, which can provide a scaled
   visual image product for automatically determining linear or area dimensions of
   selected linear or area portions of the complex image comprising:
       a. Providing a floorplan for inclusion into a computer system by scanning
           and forming a base image but without a known scale;
       b. The system using a ruler to equate a known dimension in reality with an
           identified point to point on the drawing of the base image wherein the

                                       35
       scale of the image is determined;
    c. locking the now determined scale of the determined image online
       wherein any variation in the drawing will have a scale that is tracked with
       the changing of the drawing;
    d. providing a plurality of secondary images in a store in the system which
       could be at a known scale;
    e. overlaying the secondary images on the base image to form complex
       image product with both at the same scale by one or more of the steps
       of:
             i. changing the scale of the tracked base image;
            ii. locking the scale of the secondary image and changing the scale
                of the tracked base image;
           iii. matching base image with selection of selected secondary
                images with same scale;
whereby there is consistency between the primary base image of the floorplan
and the scale of the overlaying secondary images;
   f.   Providing a virtual line along a dimension or image blanket over an area
    g. determining a length of a straight line as a ruler but instead of distance
       the blanket determines area by reference to the scale;
wherein the system allows the user to measure with an existing unscaled floor
plan without the need to initially re-create or re-draw the floor plan in any way.

                                       1 / 23
<removed-date>
                        PRIOR ART
<removed-apn>             11
                                 15
                        13
                            14                   1:?
              1 : 20
                                      FIGURE 1

                    2 / 23
<removed-date>
                                   11
<removed-apn>
                              12
               A
              TO
               X
                               12
                    1:X
                                   15
                   FIGURE 2

                          3 / 23
<removed-date>
              13
<removed-apn>
                                     1:X
                    12              = 1 : 10
                   15
                         FIGURE 3

                              4 / 23
<removed-date>
              21
                                             Y?
                        X?
<removed-apn>
                                                       25
              31
                                        26
                   LX                   LY
                                                  35
                               36
                             FIGURE 4

                               5 / 23
<removed-date>
              110   Providing a visual image in
                       an undefined scale
                                                   111
<removed-apn>
                    Obtaining a measurement of
                         a real dimension
                                                   112
                    Measuring a corresponding
                           dimension
                                                    113
                    Calculating the actual scale
                                                   114
                    Locking the visual image in
                    an undefined scale to relate
                      to a locked scale in the
                    corresponding actual scale      115
                    Use the locked scale image
                                                   116
                              FIGURE 5

                                   6 / 23
<removed-date>
                   41
                                                  EY
                             EX
<removed-apn>
                                                            45
              31                             46
                                             LY
                        LX
                                                       35
                                    36
                                  FIGURE 6

                                    7 / 23
<removed-date>
                     Providing QUESTION
                               a variable visual image
                     expansion in consistent X and Y
              120            dimension scaling
<removed-apn>
                                                             121
                    Providing a linked expansion tracker
                    for tracking percentage expansion of
                     the variable visual image expansion
                                                             122
                      Determining the expanded scale
                           from the locked scale
                                                             123
                     Providing details of at least part of
                      the visual image in the variable
                         visual image expansion in
                       consistent X and Y dimension           124
                    scaling according to the determined
                              expanded scale
                       Use the determined expanded
                                scale image
                                                             125
                                  FIGURE 7

                                     8 / 23
<removed-date>
              DISPLAY
              DEVICE
                                LOCKED
              SCALER
                                SCALER
<removed-apn>
                                                    PROCESSOR
                                                    ROM   RAM
                DISPLAY
               INTERFACE
                STORAGE                 I/O           NETWORK
                 DEVICE              INTERFACE        INTERFACE
                       MOBILE
                       PHONE
                                                    NETWORK
                   NOTEBOOK
                       TERMINAL
                                         FIGURE 8

                                 9 / 23
<removed-date>
                101              102             103
               DISPLAY     DISPLAY SIZE    ACTUAL SIZE
               IMAGE
<removed-apn>
                                                         100
               120              SCALER
               SCALE             115                     110
              TRACKER
                 21        31               41
               ORIGINAL     LOCKED         VARYING
               DISPLAY      DISPLAY        DISPLAY       120
                     300    330                   340
               MEASURE       MEASURE                SCALED
                SCALED         SCALED              ADDITIONS
               DISTANCE      SIZE/AREA
                                                         130
                                FIGURE 9

                <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
            X
FIGURE 10                                  10 / 23
                    A

                    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      A
            B
FIGURE 11       L                              11 / 23

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                L
FIGURE 12                              12 / 23

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                X
FIGURE 13                              13 / 23
                M

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    M
FIGURE 14                              14 / 23
                         B

                                 15 / 23
<removed-date>
                                                          21
<removed-apn>
                                                  201     202
              212         211               203
                                                    200
                    210         FIGURE 15

                            16 / 23
<removed-date>
                                       21
<removed-apn>
                                       215
              216
                    217
                                       218
              212    210
                           FIGURE 16

                     17 / 23
<removed-date>
                                21A
<removed-apn>
                                      215
              211   FIGURE 17

                           18 / 23
<removed-date>                           21B
                    215
<removed-apn>
                                        218
              211
                          FIGURE 18

                     19 / 23
<removed-date>
                                31
<removed-apn>
              213
                    FIGURE 19

                    20 / 23
<removed-date>
                                41
<removed-apn>
              213
                    FIGURE 20

        <removed-apn>    <removed-date>
21 / 23
                         41A
                   FIGURE 21

               <removed-apn>    <removed-date>
       22 / 23
   311
20
                  319
                            41B
                              330
                   317
                        318
                        FIGURE 22

              <removed-apn> <removed-date>
      23 / 23
                                 350
341
342
343
344
345
346
  340

