ABSTRACT
        Methods and devices are provided for anchoring suture to bone. In one
embodiment, an elongate weave of fibers can be provided having a first portion with a first
pick count and a second portion with a second pick count that is greater than the first pick
count. The first portion can have a cross-section that deforms in response to a force that is
applied thereto. The first portion can have a collapsible diameter and can have a bending
stiffness that is lower than a bending stiffness of the second portion of the suture. The first
portion can also have a first pattern that is different than a second pattern on the second
portion of the suture. The first portion can be threaded into a suture anchor such that it can
be doubled over upon itself. The present invention also provides exemplary sutures and
drivers that can be used with the various methods and devices disclosed herein, or with
other methods and devices known in the art.

                  1/7
                FIG. 1
        /  A
FIG. 2A   FIG. 2B      FIG. 2C FIG. 2D

                                                 1
METHODS AND DEVICES FOR THREADING SUTURES
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]           The present invention relates generally to sutures and to methods and
devices for threading sutures into suture anchors.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]           The complete or partial detachment of ligaments, tendons and/or other soft
tissues from their associated bones within the body are relatively commonplace injuries,
particularly among athletes. Such injuries are generally the result of excessive stresses
being placed on these tissues. By way of example, tissue detachment may occur as the
result of an accident such as a fall, over-exertion during a work-related activity, during the
course of an athletic event, or in any one of many other situations and/or activities. In the
case of a partial detachment, the injury will frequently heal itself, if given sufficient time
and if care is taken not to expose the injury to further undue stress. In the case of complete
detachment, however, surgery may be needed to re-attach the soft tissue to its associated
bone or bones.
[0003]           Numerous devices are currently available to re-attach soft tissue to bone.
Examples of such currently-available devices include screws, staples, suture anchors, and
tacks. In soft tissue re-attachment procedures utilizing screws, the detached soft tissue is
typically moved back into its original position over the bone. Then the screw is screwed
through the soft tissue and into the bone, with the shank and head of the screw holding the
soft tissue to the bone. Similarly, in soft tissue re-attachment procedures utilizing staples,
the detached soft tissue is typically moved back into its original position over the bone.
Then the staple is driven through the soft tissue and into the bone, with the legs and bridge
of the staple holding the soft tissue to the bone.
[0004]           In soft tissue re-attachment procedures utilizing suture anchors, an anchor
receiving hole is generally first drilled in the bone at the desired point of tissue re-

                                                   2
attachment. A suture anchor is then deployed in the hole using an appropriate installation
tool. This effectively locks the suture, with soft tissue attached thereto.
[0005]          While suture anchors provide an effective, minimally-invasive technique for
soft tissue repair, it is desirable to utilize an anchor having a small diameter so as to avoid
unnecessary trauma. The size of the anchor, however, can be limited by the size of the
suture. Typically, a single strand of repair suture is folded and trailing ends of the suture
are attached to a threader loop, which is used to pull the folded suture into the anchor.
When a folded suture is used, the cannulated portion of the anchor must typically be large
enough to accommodate at least four times the thickness of the repair suture. This in turn
restricts the ability to reduce the size of the anchor.
[0006]          Accordingly, there remains a need for improved methods and devices for
attaching soft tissue to bone.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0007]          Various surgical devices and methods are provided herein. In one
embodiment, a suture is provided that includes a biocompatible weave of fibers having a
first length with a first pick count and a second length with a second pick count. The first
length can have a cross-section that is configured to deform when a force is applied
thereto. In some embodiments, the first length can have a resting outer diameter that is
greater than an outer diameter of the second length. The first length can be configured to
collapse in diameter when a force is applied thereto. The first length can include a
terminal end portion of the suture. In some embodiments, the elongate weave can include
a hollow lumen extending at least partially therethrough. The weave of fibers can also
include varying patterns along the length thereof, such as at least one strand having a first
color and at least one additional strand having a second color that differs from the first
color such that the first length defines a first pattern and the second length defines a second
pattern that differs from the first pattern.
[0008]          The suture can vary in a number of ways. The second length can have a
bending stiffness that is greater than a bending stiffness of the first length. In some

                                                3
embodiments, the collapsed outer diameter of the first length can be less than or
approximately equal to the outer diameter of the second length. In some embodiments, the
pick count of the second length can be about 60 picks per inch. In other aspects, the first
and second patterns can each include an uninterrupted series of repeating units. The
repeating unit on the first pattern can have a length that is greater than a length of the
repeating unit of the second pattern.
[0009]          A surgical kit is also provided and can include a biocompatible elongate
weave of fibers having a first length with a first pick count and a second length with a
second pick count that is greater than the first pick count. The first length can have a
cross-section that can be configured to deform when a force is applied thereto. The kit can
also include a cannulated anchor having an inner lumen configured to receive the weave of
fibers. In some embodiments the inner lumen can be configured to receive a doubled over
portion of the first length of the weave of fibers. In some embodiments the surgical kit can
include a threader tab configured to pull the weave of fibers into the inner lumen of the
cannulated anchor. In some embodiments, the kit can also include at least one additional
biocompatible elongate weave of fibers.
[0010]          Methods for threading a suture into a suture anchor are also provided. In
one embodiment, the method can include threading a first portion of a suture into a
cannulated anchor such that the first portion of the suture is doubled over upon itself, and
such that a second portion of the suture extends from the cannulated anchor. The first
portion of the suture can have a pick count that is less than a pick count of the second
portion of the suture. In certain aspects, the first portion of the suture can define a first
pattern extending therealong, and the second portion of the suture can define a second
pattern extending therealong that differs from the first pattern such that the first portion
indicates a portion of the suture to be threaded into the cannulated anchor as a double
strand.
[0011]          The surgical method can include a variety of modifications. For example,
the method can include pulling the first portion of the suture into the cannulated anchor
with a threader tab. The first portion of the suture can have a resting cross-section, and the
method can further include pulling the first portion of the suture through the cannulated

                                                4
anchor such that the cross-section of the first portion of the suture deforms. The suture can
be wrapped around a suture-receiving member extending across an inner lumen of the
suture anchor such that the suture is coupled to the suture anchor. In some embodiments,
the first portion can include first and second legs of the suture, where the suture includes a
mid-portion between the first and second legs. In some aspects, the method can include
implanting the suture anchor in bone and securing the terminal ends of the suture such that
tissue attached to the suture is securely anchored to the bone.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0012]           The invention will be more fully understood from the following detailed
description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which:
[0013]           FIG. 1 is a perspective view of one embodiment of a suture having first and
second portions with different pick counts;
[0014]           FIG. 2A is a cross-sectional view of the first portion of the suture of FIG 1
taken along line A-A;
[0015]           FIG. 2B is a cross-sectional view of the second portion of the suture of FIG
1 taken along B-B;
[0016]           FIG. 2C is a cross-sectional view of the first portion of the suture of FIG 1
in a tensioned state;
[0017]           FIG. 2D is a cross-sectional view of an embodiment of a suture with a
hollow channel extending therethrough;
[0018]           FIG. 3 is a perspective view of the second portion of the suture of FIG. 1
doubled over;
[0019]           FIG. 4 is a cross-sectional view of one embodiment of a suture anchor;

                                                5
[0020]           FIG. 5A is a cross-sectional view of a doubled over first portion of the
suture of FIG. 1 and the suture anchor of FIG. 4;
[0021]           FIG. 5B is a cross-sectional view of the doubled over first portion of the
suture partially threaded into the suture anchor of FIG. 4;
[0022]           FIG. 6 is a cross-sectional view of one suture threaded through tissue and
into a threader loop extending from the suture anchor of FIG. 4;
[0023]           FIG. 7 is a cross-sectional view of the suture of FIG. 6 partially threaded
through the suture anchor;
[0024]           FIG. 8 is a cross-sectional view of the suture of FIG. 7 fully threaded
through the suture anchor;
[0025]           FIG. 9A is a cross-sectional top view of the suture of FIG. 8 threaded
through the anchor; and
[0026]           FIG. 9B is an alternative cross-sectional top view of the suture of FIG. 8
threaded through the anchor.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0027]           Certain exemplary embodiments will now be described to provide an overall
understanding of the principles of the structure, function, manufacture, and use of the
devices and methods disclosed herein. One or more examples of these embodiments are
illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Those of ordinary skill in the art will
understand that the devices and methods specifically described herein and illustrated in the
accompanying drawings are non-limiting exemplary embodiments and that the scope of the
present invention is defined solely by the claims. The features illustrated or described in
connection with one exemplary embodiment may be combined with the features of other
embodiments. Such modifications and variations are intended to be included within the
scope of the present invention.

                                                6
[0028]          Various devices and methods are provided for anchoring suture to bone. In
an exemplary embodiment, a suture is provided and is formed from several fibers or
filaments that are woven together. In general, the suture can have distinct portions along a
length thereof that each have a specific pick count. The pick count, or PPI, refers to the
setting used during manufacture to define the number of picks (i.e., the number of times
the fibers cross) per inch of material. The pick count can affect the tightness or looseness
of the weave, as well as the dimensions and the mechanical properties of the suture. The
mechanical properties important for surgical applications include strength, fatigue,
resistance to abrasion, resistance to nicking, stiffness, and knot holding capability.
Therefore, the pick count is carefully chosen to optimize these parameters. For example, a
pick count that is too high can lead to premature loosening of the knot, whereas a pick
count that is too low can cause the suture to be easily damaged by surgical instruments.
The pick count for ORTHOCORD@ #2 (manufactured by DePuy Mitek), for example, is
chosen to be around 60 PPI to deliver an overall optimized performance. However, 60 PPI
may not render the best results for the suture's ability to fit into and around tight passages,
for which a looser suture structure provided by a lower pick count may be a better choice.
Therefore, it may be beneficial for a suture to have multiple portions with different pick
counts to independently address these conflicting requirements.
[0029]          In one embodiment, the suture can include a first length or portion having a
first pick count and a second length or portion having a second pick count that is greater
than the first pick count. As a result of the smaller pick count of the first portion, the fibers
will be more loosely woven than the fibers of the second portion. The first portion can
thus be configured to deform or collapse more easily when a force is applied to the suture,
such as an axial force, a compression force, a bending force, or a pulling force, for
example. The first portion can also be more flexible than the second portion because of the
looser weave given by the lower pick count, and as a result the first portion can have a
bending stiffness that is lower than a bending stiffness of the second portion. Such a
configuration will allow the fibers of the first portion to realign relative to one another
when the first portion is deformed. For example, the first portion can be folded or bent,
and the fibers will reposition at the bend to allow the first portion to deform and change in
cross-sectional shape. This will allow the first portion to be more easily introduced into a
smaller diameter suture anchor, as compared to a folded portion of suture having a high

                                                 7
pick count that retains a relatively circularly cross-sectional shape when bent. As
mentioned above, however, the tissue repair can be accomplished with the higher pick
count portion of the suture, which is optimized for that purpose. In some embodiments, the
suture can have three or more portions having differing pick counts. The suture can also
include tactile and/or visual indicators for distinguishing the different portions. For
example, some of the filaments in the suture can be colored such that weaving the
filaments creates a pattern of repeating units on the suture. In certain aspects, the first
portion can have a first pattern that is different than a second pattern on the second portion.
[0030]          While the suture can be used in a variety of applications, in one exemplary
embodiment the suture is particularly useful with bone anchors for soft tissue repair. As a
result of the differing pick counts along the length of the suture, the flexible low pick count
portion of the suture can allow for use with a cannulated suture anchor having a small
diameter inner lumen. For example, the first portion of the suture having the lower pick
count can be threaded into a suture anchor such that the second portion extends from the
suture anchor. In some embodiments, the first portion can be doubled over upon itself.
The doubled over portion can be passed through a lumen of the anchor, passed around a
suture-receiving member, and passed back through the lumen of the anchor such that four
lengths of the suture extend through the lumen. In other embodiments, a different number
of lengths of the suture, such as two, can extend through the lumen of the anchor. In some
other embodiments , eight lengths of suture may coexist in the lumen of the anchor,
especially while the sutures are being coupled to the anchor. Where multiple lengths of
suture extend through the anchor, the flexible low pick count portion of the suture can be
particularly advantageous as it allows the lumen's diameter to remain relatively small and
yet still be capable of slidably receiving the suture therein. The second high pick count
portion of the suture can optionally remain partially or entirely outside of the anchor, and
can couple to tissue to securely attach the tissue to the suture anchor, and thus to bone. In
some embodiments, a threader tab can be used to pull the suture into the suture anchor.
The present invention also provides exemplary sutures that can be used with the various
methods and devices disclosed herein, or with other methods and devices known in the art.
A person skilled in the art will appreciate that, while methods and devices are disclosed
herein for anchoring soft tissue to bone, the methods and devices can be used in a variety
of other medical procedures.

                                                 8
[0031]          FIG. 1 illustrates one exemplary embodiment of a suture 10 with varied pick
counts. The suture 10 is formed from an elongate weave of fibers or filaments 11, and the
suture 10 has first and second terminal ends 10a, 10b and a length 1extending
therebetween along a longitudinal axis L. The pick count can vary along the length of the
suture to define distinct portions that differ in flexibility. The suture can have a number of
different portions along its length. As shown in FIG. 1, the suture 10 includes a first
portion 12 that has a pick count that is less than a pick count of a second portion 14.
[0032]          While the suture 10 shown in FIG. 1 is formed from sixteen filaments 11,
the suture can be formed from any number of filaments. Preferably, the number of
filaments in the suture is in the range of 4 to 32, and more preferably in the range of 8 to 16
depending on the particular surgical procedure to be performed. The diameter, material,
and color of each filament can also vary. Generally, each filament can be formed from a
biocompatible material that can be absorbable or non-absorbable. Suitable materials
include, but are not limited to, polyethylene, including ultra-high molecular weight
polyethylene, polyester, polypropylene, PDS, PLA, PGA, and blends or mixtures of any of
the preceding. A suture can be formed from identical filaments, or alternatively, the suture
can be formed from filaments with varying diameters, materials, and/or colors. FIG. 1
shows a suture 10 formed of filaments 11 made of different materials and having different
colors. Variations in the number of filaments and in the properties of the filaments can
provide different patterns on the suture, as discussed further below.
[0033]          The filaments can be braided, twisted, or woven together in a number of
different configurations to form the suture. For ease of reference, the phrases "weave" or
"weave of fibers" will be used to describe the suture regardless of whether the filaments
are woven, twisted, or braided together. The number of filaments, the direction or
orientation of each filament, and/or the pick count can vary. A pick count or picks per inch
(PPI) represents the number of times the fibers cross for every inch of length of the suture.
A lower pick count will result in a suture having a relatively loose weave, while a higher
pick count will result in a suture having a relatively tight weave. The pick count can vary
over the length of the suture. In one exemplary embodiment, as shown in FIG. 1, the pick
count of the first portion 12 can be about 15 PPI and the pick count of the second portion
14 can be about 60 PPI. A person skilled in the art will appreciate that the pick count can

                                                9
vary. By way of non-limiting example, the pick count can be in the range of about 10 PPI
to 100 PPI, and more preferably can be in the range of about 15 PPI to 60 PPI. The pick
count can be selected based on various factors, such as the type of filaments used, and/or
the type of surgical procedure to be performed. As indicated above, the pick count can
affect the tightness of the weave and mechanical properties of the suture. As shown in
FIG. 1, for example, the first portion 12 of the suture 10 is more loosely woven than the
second portion 14 of the suture 10.
[0034]          The pick count can also affect a cross-section or an average outer diameter
of the suture. Suture size is typically determined by an average outer diameter of a cross
section of the suture, according to standards determined by the United States Pharmacopeia
(USP). As shown in FIGS. 2A and 2B, a resting outer diameter dR of the first length 12
with the lower pick count taken along the line A-A of FIG. 1 can be greater than a resting
outer diameter d2 of the second length 14 that has a higher pick count taken along the line
B-B of FIG. 1. However, the resting diameter dR of the first length 12 can include
adjustable spaces between the filaments 11. The adjustable spaces between the filaments
can be reduced or removed by various forces, such as pulling the suture, compressing the
suture, etc. For example, when an axial pulling force P is applied to the suture 10 in the
direction shown in FIG. 1, the filaments 11 can align themselves within the adjustable
spaces such that the resting diameter dR of the first portion, as shown in FIG. 2A, reduces
to the collapsed outer diameter dc of the first portion, as shown in FIG. 2C. Alternatively,
or in addition, the filaments can align themselves such that a cross-section of the suture
changes in shape. For example, the filaments can align themselves such that a cross
section of one or more lengths of the suture conforms to a cross-sectional shape of a lumen
that they may be in. The collapsed outer diameter dc can be less than the outer diameter d2
of the second portion 14. The outer diameter d2 of the second portion 14 can include
spaces between the filaments, as well, but given the higher pick count and thus tighter
weave of the second portion, application of an axial force to the second portion 14 may
have minimal to no impact on the diameter d2 . In addition, the second portion can have a
stronger tendency to maintain its cross-sectional shape and can be less conforming to a
different cross-sectional shape of a lumen that it may be in. As shown in FIG. 2D, the
suture can also optionally contain a hollow core 18 extending partially or fully
therethrough. The core 18 or lumen can be produced from the weave pattern used to form

                                                10
the suture, and the size of the core 18 or lumen can vary as desired. While the sutures in
FIGS. 2A-D are depicted as having substantially round cross-sections, it will be understood
that the cross-section of the suture can be any shape.
[0035]           The diameters of the first and second portions can vary, and preferably can
be made to correspond with standard USP suture sizes. For example, the first portion can
correspond to a standard suture, such as Ethibond® #0 manufactured by ETHICON, Inc.,
of Somerville, NJ, and the second portion can correspond to available high strength
sutures, such as ORTHOCORD® #2 manufactured by DePuy Mitek. In an exemplary
embodiment, the sutures can have a diameter in the range of 0.2 mm to 0.7 mm. A person
skilled in the art will appreciate that the pick count, the number of fibers, the size of the
fibers, etc., can all be selected to provide a suture having a desired diameter along various
portions thereof. By way of non-limiting example, a portion of a suture having a pick
count of 15 PPI can have a diameter in the range of about 0.25 mm to 0.30 mm, whereas a
portion of a suture having a pick count of 60 PPI can have a diameter in the range of about
0.45 mm to 0.65 mm.
[0036]           The pick count can also affect the flexibility or a bending stiffness of the
suture. A lower pick count will result in a reduced bending stiffness and an increased
flexibility, as compared to a portion of the suture having a higher pick count. This can
allow the suture to be folded and inserted into a small diameter lumen of a suture anchor.
In particular, loosely woven fibers can more easily reposition upon bending to allow the
suture to deform in shape and/or size. This can result in a reduced cross-sectional profile
of the suture, thereby allowing the suture to be inserted into a small diameter lumen. A
suture having an increased pick count, on the other hand, will have a higher bending
stiffness and thus is less likely to deform when folded. As a result, the suture will assume
a larger profile when folded, thus rendering insertion into a smaller diameter anchor more
difficult.
[0037]           FIG. 3 illustrates the second portion 14 of suture 10, showing the effect of
an increased pick count and bending stiffness. A person skilled in the art will appreciate
that, while FIG. 3 illustrates a suture having a circular cross-sectional shape, bending of the
suture can result in deformation of the cross-sectional shape. The drawings are thus not

                                               11
intended to limit the shape and/or profile of the suture. As shown in FIG. 3, when folding
a suture having a higher pick count, the increased bending stiffness of the suture can
provide little room for repositioning of the fibers. As a result, the fibers are generally
maintained in a relatively tight woven configuration, thus preventing the suture from
achieving a true 180 degree bend. This can create a gap 19 at the bend. The greater the
bending stiffness of the suture, the greater the size of the gap produced at the bend. The
gap can result in a diameter D2 at the bend that is greater than the combined diameter 2d 2
of two strands of the suture. This can impact the ability to pull the suture into a cannulated
suture anchor. By providing a suture having a first portion 12 with a lower pick count and
thus lower bending stiffness, the first portion 12 of the suture 10 can deform more easily
when bent as compared to the second portion 14 of the suture 10. In particular, the spaces
between the fibers of the first portion 12 can allow the fibers to move and reposition
relative to one another, thereby allowing the cross-sectional shape of the suture to change.
By way of non-limiting example, the cross-sectional shape along a bend in the first portion
12 of the suture 10 can change from a circular shape to an ovular or oblong shape. This
will result in a folded portion having a smaller profile, thereby allowing the folded portion
to fit into a smaller diameter lumen of a suture anchor, as compared to a folded portion of
the second portion 14 of suture 10. A person skilled in the art will appreciate that the
diameter or width of the suture at the fold may not necessarily change, but that the ability
of the fibers to move due to the loosely woven configuration will facilitate insertion into a
small diameter lumen of a suture anchor.
[0038]           While the suture 10 of FIG. 1 shows a first portion 12 with a lower pick
count and a second portion 14 with a higher pick count, various other configurations of
suture are possible. The number and length of portions having different pick counts can
vary along the length of a suture. In some embodiments, the suture can have more than
two distinct portions. For example, a suture can have first, second, third, and fourth
sequential portions with alternating pick counts. In particular, the first portion and the
third portion can have identical pick counts, and the second portion and the fourth portion
can have identical pick counts. Alternatively, in some embodiments, a suture can have
more than two different pick counts. For example, the suture can include first, second,
third, and fourth portions each having a different pick count. In addition, the pick count
can be tailored to change gradually along a length of the suture in almost any desired

                                               12
pattern. Preferably, terminal end portions of a suture have relatively lower pick counts
such that the terminal end portions can be more easily threaded into a suture anchor.
[0039]          As mentioned above, varying pick counts can cause various patterns in the
suture. Each pattern can be formed by an uninterrupted series of repeating units. For
example, as shown in FIG. 1, the first portion 12 having a first pick count can have a first
pattern formed by repeating units 212, and the second portion 14 having a second pick
count can have a second pattern formed by repeating units 214. The difference in pattern
of the first and second portions 12, 14 is a result of the change in pick count, however, in
addition to the pick count, the configuration of the particular weave used to form the
suture, and the diameter and color of each filament can also cause variations in the pattern.
[0040]          The suture 10 can have a length 1 measured along longitudinal axis L such
that it can be threaded through various components, such as a suture anchor. The length of
the suture can vary depending on various factors, such as the type of surgical procedure
being performed and/or the number of portions with varied pick counts on the suture. For
example, the length of the suture can be in the range of about 300 mm to 1000 mm. In
some embodiments, the suture can be manufactured as a longer continuous coil that can be
cut into resulting separate smaller sutures as needed. The continuous coil of suture can be
cut such that the resulting smaller sutures can have a desired pick count along specific
portions of the suture. For example, a continuous coil of suture can be cut such that both
terminal ends of the resulting smaller sutures can have relatively lower pick counts. The
suture can also be used with a suture leader. Non-limiting examples of suture leaders are
discussed in U.S. Patent Appl. No. 13/623,290, filed on even date herewith and entitled
"Suture Leader," which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.
[0041]          FIG. 4 illustrates a cut-away view of one exemplary embodiment of a
cannulated suture anchor 600 for anchoring tissue to bone. As shown, the suture anchor
600 is in the form of a generally elongate body having proximal and distal ends 600p, 600d
with an inner lumen 622 extending therethrough along a longitudinal axis LA. At least one
bone-engaging surface feature 624 can be formed on at least a portion of an external
surface thereof for engaging bone. The suture anchor 600 can also include a suture
receiving member 626 disposed within and extending across the inner lumen 622 adjacent

                                                13
to the distal end 600d of the suture anchor 600. The suture-receiving member 626 can be
adapted to receive one or more sutures therearound such that the suture(s) can extend
around the suture-receiving member 626 and trailing ends of the suture(s) can extend
through the inner lumen 622 and out of the proximal end 600p of the suture anchor 600.
[0042]           The body of the suture anchor 600 can have a variety of configurations,
shapes, and sizes. In an exemplary embodiment, the anchor 600 is configured to be
implanted within a bone tunnel formed in bone, and more preferably it has a size and shape
that allows it to be fully engaged through the thickness of the cortical bone. In the
illustrated embodiment the body has a generally elongate cylindrical shape with a blunt or
rounded distal end 600d to facilitate introduction of the anchor 600 into a bone tunnel. The
proximal end 600p of the body can be head-free, as the cannulated configuration of the
body can allow a driver to be inserted into the inner lumen to drive the suture anchor into
bone. Alternatively, in some embodiments, the suture anchor can have a head portion. As
indicated above, the suture anchor 600 can also include one or more bone-engaging surface
features 624 formed thereon and adapted to engage bone. While various surface features
can be used, such as teeth, ridges, protrusions, etc., in an exemplary embodiment the body
can include one or more threads extending therearound.
[0043]           The inner lumen 622 of the suture anchor 600 can have a diameter dA that
can vary depending on the type of procedure being performed and the type and number of
sutures being used. As previously discussed, the lower pick count of the first portion 12 of
the suture 10 can allow the fibers to reposition and the suture to more easily deform along
a bend. As shown in FIG. 5A, the lower pick count and greater flexibility will allow the
bend in the first portion 12 of the suture 10 to be easily inserted into the inner lumen 622 of
the anchor 600. In other words, the bend in the first portion 12 can compress and/or
deform more easily so the first portion 12 of the suture 10 can be loaded into the suture
anchor 600. Once the first portion 12 of the suture 10 is loaded into the suture anchor 600,
it can be pulled further into the inner lumen 622 such that the attached second portion 14 of
the suture 10 can follow the first portion 12 into the suture anchor 600, as shown in FIG.
5B. In this way, the second portion 14 can be loaded into the suture anchor 600 without
having to bend or fold the suture 10 at the second portion 14. The inner lumen 622 can
accommodate four legs of the suture when the suture is fully threaded therethrough, as

                                                14
shown below in FIGS. 8 and 9. In other embodiments, the diameter of the inner lumen can
be sized to accommodate multiple strands or various types or sizes of suture, including
varying pick counts and bending stiffness.
[0044]          As previously indicated, the suture anchor 600 can also include a suture
receiving member formed therein. The suture-receiving member 626 can have a variety of
configurations, but in an exemplary embodiment it is adapted to seat one or more sutures
that extend through the inner lumen 622 of the anchor 600 so as to couple the suture(s) to
the anchor. As shown in FIG. 4, the suture-receiving member 626 is in the form of a post
that extends transversely across the inner lumen 622 and between opposed inner sidewalls
628, 630 of the suture anchor 600. The angular orientation of the suture-receiving member
626 relative to a longitudinal axis LA of the inner lumen 622 can vary, but in an exemplary
embodiment the suture-receiving member 626 extends substantially perpendicular to the
longitudinal axis LA of the inner lumen 622. The location of the suture-receiving member
626 can also vary, but in an exemplary embodiment the suture-receiving member 626 is
positioned at or adjacent to the distal end 600d of the suture anchor 600. In the
embodiment shown in FIG. 4 the suture-receiving member 626 is located just proximal to
the distal-most end 600d of the suture anchor 600 so as to form a suture-seating groove in
the distal-most end 600d of the suture anchor 600. This recessed configuration of the
suture-receiving member 626 can allow a suture(s) disposed around the suture-receiving
member 626 to sit flush or sub-flush with the distal end 600d of the suture anchor 600 such
that the suture(s) will not interfere with insertion of the suture anchor 600 into bone. A
person skilled in the art will appreciate that the suture-receiving member can be integrally
formed with the suture anchor, i.e., the suture anchor and suture-receiving member can be
molded as a single unit or formed from a single piece of material, or the suture-receiving
member can be fixedly or removably mated to the suture anchor. Additionally, the suture
receiving member can have other configurations, such as an eyelet (not shown) that can
receive the suture therethrough. Non-limiting examples of suture anchors and deploying
suture anchors into bone are described in further detail in U.S. App. No. 11/555,545
entitled "Cannulated Suture Anchor" filed February 1, 2006, now U.S. Pat. No. 8,114,128,
U.S. App. No. 11/855,670 entitled "Dual Thread Cannulated Suture Anchor" filed
September 14, 2007, U.S. App. No. 10/615,625 entitled "Bioabsorbable Suture Anchor
System For Use In Small Joints" filed June 27, 2003, now U.S. Pat. No. 8,133,257, U.S.

                                                 15
Patent Appl. No. 13/623,258, filed on even date herewith and entitled "Anti-Backup Suture
Anchor," and U.S. Patent App. No. 13/623,449, filed on even date herewith and entitled
"Self-Cinching Suture Anchors, Systems, and Methods," all of which are hereby
incorporated by reference in their entireties.
[0045]           The devices described above can be used to perform a surgical procedure
for attaching tissue to bone, e.g. anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) repair, rotator cuff
repair, etc. In an exemplary embodiment, a procedure including implantation of the
implant can be a minimally invasive procedure, but as will be appreciated by a person
skilled in the art, the implants discussed herein also have application in open surgical
instrumentation as well as application in robotic-assisted surgery. Though reference is
made to the suture 10, the devices shown are exemplary and the method can be performed
with various other sutures.
[0046]           As one skilled in the art will appreciate, the procedure usually begins by
preparing the patient for surgery and making one or more appropriately sized incisions at a
desired location. In a minimally invasive procedure, one or more cannulas can be
positioned in the incisions to provide access to the surgical site. One skilled in the art will
also understand that one or more viewing devices, e.g., scopes, can be placed in one of the
incisions to allow medical personnel to view the surgical site from outside the body.
[0047]           Once the patient is prepared for surgery, a length of suture 10 can be
inserted into the patient's body and through tissue to be surgically reattached to bone.
When a combination suture and suture leader is used, the leading end of the suture leader
can be inserted through the tissue directly using a tool, such as a needle. The leader can be
used to pull the suture coupled thereto through the tissue. Alternatively, the suture can be
threaded through the tissue and then coupled to the suture leader, e.g., by passing the
leading end of the suture into the lumen in the trailing end of the suture leader. One skilled
in the art will appreciate that the suture and/or leader can be passed through the tissue
using any known surgical technique, such as by mattress and cinch loop methods. With
the suture and leader so positioned, a bore, bone hole, or bone tunnel, generally referred to
herein as a "bone hole," can be formed in bone of the patient. The bone hole can be pre
formed, such as by using a drill, an awl, a punch instrument, etc., as will be appreciated by

                                                16
a person skilled in the art. Alternatively, the bone hole can be formed simultaneously with
advancement of a suture anchor into the bone and simultaneously with threadable
engagement of the anchor therewith, such as by using a self-awling or self-tapping driver
and/or self-awling or self-tapping anchor. The bone hole can extend fully through cortical
bone to allow the suture anchor to be fully engaged through the thickness of the cortical
bone. The bone tunnel can also extend into cancellous bone located underneath the
cortical bone. The suture anchor can be deployed in the bone hole before or after suture
leader is threaded or loaded onto the suture anchor. With the suture and/or leader(s)
threaded through tissue, the terminal ends can extend outside of the body. The suture and
the leader can be threaded onto the anchor, either before or after the anchor is implanted in
bone.
[0048]          With the suture extending through or around tissue, the trailing ends can
extend outside of the body and can be manipulated by a user. In one embodiment, the
suture can be threaded onto the anchor while the anchor is positioned outside of the
patient's body. The suture can be threaded through the anchor in various ways and using
various tools known in the art, such as a threader loop. For example, as shown in FIG. 6, a
suture 100 having a first portion 112 with a lower pick count a second portion 114 with a
greater pick count can be threaded through tissue T. The first portion 112 can include
opposite end portions of the suture 100, which include trailing ends 100a, 100b. The
suture 100 can then be threaded through a loop portion 742 located on a trailing end 700b
of a threader loop 700 prior to threading the suture 100 through the anchor 600.
Preferably, the first portion 112 is threaded through the threader loop 700 because the
lower pick count and lower bending stiffness can allow it to deform and/or compress at the
bend when bent around the loop portion 742 of the threader loop 700, as shown in FIG. 7,
making the first portion 112 easier to thread into the suture anchor 600 than the second
portion 114 or a standard high strength suture. When the threader loop 700 or other
threading tool is used, the threader loop 700 can optionally be pre-disposed within the
lumen/cannulated portion 622 of the anchor 600, as shown in FIG. 6. The threader loop
700 can be wrapped around the suture-receiving member 626 and a leading end 700a of the
threader loop 700 can exit from the same opening of the suture anchor 600 that it entered
such that both the leading and trailing ends 700a, 700b of the threader loop 700 extend
from a proximal end of the suture anchor 600, as shown in FIG. 6.

                                                17
[0049]          The leading end 700a of the threader loop 700 can be pulled proximally
with a force F such that the trailing end 700b is pulled distally into the suture anchor 600
with the first portion 112 of the suture 100 folded around the loop portion 742, as shown in
FIG. 7. As the leading end 700a of the threader 700 is further pulled proximally, the
trailing end 700b, and thus the attached suture 100, are pulled around the suture-receiving
member 626 and then pulled proximally through the suture anchor 600. The axial force on
the suture produced by the pulling of the threader loop can cause a diameter of the first
portion of the suture to collapse and/or deform such that it conforms to the confines of the
lumen of the anchor. The threader loop 742 can be further pulled proximally such that the
trailing end 700b exits the proximal end of the suture anchor 600, pulling the trailing ends
100a, 100b and the first portion 112 of the suture with it, as shown in FIG. 8. The first
portion 112 of the suture 100 can be pulled such that the second portion 114 of the suture
100 is partially threaded through the suture anchor 600, as shown in FIG. 8, or
alternatively, the first portion can be pulled such that the second portion is either not at all
threaded or fully threaded through the suture anchor. In other embodiments, the threader
can pass through the distal end of the suture anchor, pulling the suture thereafter. In these
embodiments, the suture can be left extending from the distal end of the anchor, or it can
be threaded back through the anchor in a distal to proximal direction. The first portion 112
of the suture can have a length such that it can extend substantially through the inner lumen
622 of the anchor 600, as shown, or in other embodiments the first portion can extend
partially through the lumen 622. FIG. 9A shows a cross-section of the top view of the
suture anchor 600 once the suture 100 has been fully threaded therethrough. FIG. 9B
shows an alternative cross-section of the top view of the suture anchor 600 once the suture
100 has been fully threaded therethrough such that the cross-sectional shape of the first
portion 112 deformed. While FIGS. 9A and 9B show the suture 100 fully threaded
through the suture anchor such that each of the first portion 112 and the second portion 114
are partially threaded through the suture anchor 600, the suture can alternatively be fully
threaded through the anchor such that either the first portion 112 is entirely threaded
through the suture anchor or the second portion 114 is entirely threaded through the suture
anchor.
[0050]          With the suture 100 threaded through the suture anchor 600, the suture
anchor 600 can be deployed into the bone using various techniques. For example, the

                                               18
suture anchor 600 can be positioned on a distal end of a driver (not shown), and the driver
can be rotated to force the suture anchor 600 through the bone, such as through the bone
tunnel previously described. The suture 100 can be tensioned to draw the tissue toward the
suture anchor 600 either prior to, during, or subsequent to driving the suture anchor 600
into the bone. When the suture anchor 600 is fully seated in the bone, it can extend at least
through cortical bone or through cortical bone and cancellous bone. After the suture 100 is
tensioned to pull the tissue toward the bone, trailing ends 100a, 100b of the suture 100 can
be tied off or otherwise secured to maintain contact between the tissue and the bone.
Various methods can be used to secure the suture, for example, a single or multiple knots,
a self-knotting suture, or a knotting element, as will be appreciated by one of skill in the
art. For example, the trailing ends 100a, 100b of the suture 100 can be knotted together
such that tissue T attached to the suture 100 can be securely anchored to the suture anchor
600, and thus to the bone.
[0051]          As previously indicated, the suture anchors disclosed herein can be
configured for use with one or more sutures. The particular quantity of sutures used with a
suture anchor can depend on the size of the suture anchor, and in particular on the diameter
of the inner lumen of the suture anchor.
[0052]          Any combination of the devices described above can be provided in a
surgical kit. For example, the kit can include one or more sutures having varied pick
counts as described above. The kit can include one or more suture anchors of various
shapes and sizes, depending on the type of procedure to be performed and the types of
sutures included. Alternatively, the kit can include suture anchors of similar shapes and/or
sizes that each have inner cannulas having different diameters. The kit can also include a
threader tab or any other threading tools.
[0053]          One skilled in the art will appreciate further features and advantages of the
invention based on the above-described embodiments. Accordingly, the invention is not to
be limited by what has been particularly shown and described, except as indicated by the
appended claims. All publications and references cited herein are expressly incorporated
herein by reference in their entirety.

                                               19
[0054]          Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the
context requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group
of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or
steps.
[0055]          The reference to any prior art in this specification is not and should not be
taken as an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the
common general knowledge in Australia.
[0056]          This application is a divisional application from Australian Application
2013231046. The full disclosure of AU 2013231046 is incorporated herein by reference.

                                                20
CLAIMS
1.        A suture, comprising:
          a biocompatible elongate weave of fibers having a first length with a first pick
count and a second length with a second pick count that is greater than the first pick count,
wherein the first length defines a first pattern and the second length defines a second
pattern that differs from the first pattern, and wherein a cross-section of the first length is
configured to deform when a force is applied thereto.
2.        The suture of claim 1, wherein the first length has a resting outer diameter that is
greater than or equal to an outer diameter of the second length, and the first length is
configured to collapse in diameter when a force is applied thereto.
3.        The suture of claim 2, wherein the collapsed outer diameter of the first length is
less than the outer diameter of the second length.
4.        The suture of claim 1, wherein the second length has a bending stiffness that is
greater than a bending stiffness of the first length.
5.        The suture of claim 1, wherein the elongate weave includes a hollow lumen
extending at least partially therethrough.
6.        The suture of claim 1, wherein the first and second patterns each comprise an
uninterrupted series of repeating units.
7.        The suture of claim 6, wherein the repeating unit on the first pattern has a length
that is greater than a length of the repeating unit on the second pattern.
8.        The suture of claim 1, wherein the weave of fibers includes at least one strand
having a first color and at least one additional strand having a second color.
9.        The suture of claim 1, wherein the first length comprises a terminal end portion of
the suture.

                                                21
10.       The suture of claim 1, wherein the pick count of the second length is about 60
picks per inch.
11.       A surgical kit, comprising:
          a biocompatible elongate weave of fibers having a first length with a first pick
count and a second length with a second pick count that is greater than the first pick count,
wherein a cross-section of the first length is configured to deform when a force is applied
thereto; and
          a cannulated anchor having an inner lumen configured to receive the weave of
fibers.
12.       The surgical kit of claim 11, wherein the inner lumen is configured to receive a
doubled over portion of the first length of the weave of fibers.
13.       The surgical kit of claim 11, further comprising a threader tab configured to pull
the weave of fibers into the inner lumen of the cannulated anchor.
14.       The surgical kit of claim 11, further comprising at least one additional
biocompatible elongate weave of fibers.
15.       A method for threading a suture into a suture anchor, comprising:
          threading a first portion of a suture into a cannulated anchor such that the first
portion of the suture is doubled over upon itself, and such that a second portion of the
suture extends from the cannulated anchor, the first portion of the suture having a pick
count that is less than a pick count of the second portion of the suture.
16.       The method of claim 15, wherein the first portion of the suture defines a first
pattern extending therealong, and the second portion of the suture defines a second pattern
extending therealong that differs from the first pattern such that first pattern indicates a
portion of the suture to be threaded into the cannulated anchor as a double strand.
17.       The method of claim 15, further comprising pulling the first portion of the suture
into the cannulated anchor with a threader tab.

                                             22
18.       The method of claim 15, wherein the first portion of the suture has a resting outer
cross-section, the method further comprising pulling the first portion of the suture through
the cannulated anchor such that the cross-section of the first portion of the suture deforms.
19.       The method of claim 15, wherein the suture is wrapped around a suture-receiving
member extending across an inner lumen of the suture anchor such that the suture is
coupled to the suture anchor.
20.       The method of claim 15, wherein the first portion comprises first and second legs
of the suture, and where the suture includes a mid-portion between the first and second
legs.
21.       The method of claim 15, further comprising implanting the suture anchor in bone
and securing terminal ends of the suture such that tissue attached to the suture is securely
anchored to the bone.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
