                                                43
METHODS AND DEVICES FOR STIMULATING AN IMMUNE
RESPONSE USING NANOSECOND PULSED ELECTRIC FIELDS
ABSTRACT
      Nanosecond pulsed electric field (nsPEF) treatments of a tumor are used to cause the tumor
to express calreticulin and stimulate an immune response against the tumor and other tumors in a
subject. An immune response biomarker can be measured, and further nsPEF treatments can be
performed if needed to stimulate or further stimulate the immune response. Cancers that have
metastasized may be treated. The treatment can be combined with CD47-blocking antibodies,
doxorubicin, CTLA-4-blocking antibodies, and/or PD-I-blocking antibodies. Electrical
characteristics of nsPEF treatments can be based on the size, type, and/or strength of tumors
and/or a quantity of tumors in the subject.

                                                    1
METHODS AND DEVICES FOR STIMULATING AN IMMUNE
RESPONSE USING NANOSECOND PULSED ELECTRIC FIELDS
                      CROSS-REFERENCES TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001] This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
<removed-apn>, filed January 6, 2017. Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn> is a
divisional application of Australian Patent Application No. 2014275297. The contents of
Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn> are hereby incorporated herein by reference in
their entirety for all purposes. Australian Patent Application No. 2014275297 claims the benefit
of U.S. Application No. 14/287,957, filed May 27, 2014, which claims the benefit of U.S.
Provisional Application No. 61/830,564, filed June 3, 2013, which are hereby incorporated
herein by reference in their entireties for all purposes.
        STATEMENT AS TO RIGHTS TO INVENTIONS MADE UNDER FEDERALLY
                         SPONSORED RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
[0002] This invention was made with government support under award numbers R01CA125722
and R44CA150484 awarded by the National Institutes of Health (NIH). The U.S. government
has certain rights in the invention.
                                           BACKGROUND
1. Field of the Invention
[0003] The present application generally relates to surgical devices and methods of use,
specifically those involving nanosecond pulsed electric fields (nsPEF).
2. Description of the Related Art
[0004] Melanoma affecting the skin is one of the top six cancers in the United States, and its rate
is rising in some populations. Ultraviolet radiation from sun exposure is a leading cause of such
skin cancer. Cutaneous melanoma causes a skin tumor or other lesion, which is normally treated
by surgical removal.

                                                  2
[0005] Surgical excision of a tumor can result in an infection and leave a scar. Furthermore, if
there are more tumors, every cancerous tumor should be identified and individually excised by a
surgeon. This can be time consuming and expensive, not to mention uncomfortable for patients.
[0006] Cancerous tumors that are internal to a patient may be especially difficult to remove, let
alone detect and treat. Many patients' lives are turned upside down by the discovery of cancer in
their bodies, sometimes which have formed relatively large tumors before being detected.
[0007] A "nanosecond pulsed electric field," sometimes abbreviated as nsPEF, includes an
electric field with a pulse width of between 0.1 nanoseconds (ns) to 1000 nanoseconds, or as
otherwise known in the art. It is sometimes referred to as sub-microsecond pulsed electric field.
NsPEFs often have high peak voltages, such as 10 kilovolts per centimeter (kV/cm), 20 kV/cm,
to 500 kV/cm. Treatment of biological cells with nsPEF often uses a multitude of periodic
pulses at a frequency ranging from 0.1 per second (Hz) to 10,000 Hz.
[0008] NsPEFs have been found to trigger both necrosis and apoptosis in cancerous tumors.
Selective treatment of such tumors with nsPEFs can induce apoptosis within the tumor cells
without substantially affecting normal cells in the surrounding tissue due to its non-thermal
nature.
[0009] An example of nsPEF applied to biological cells is shown and described in U.S. Patent
No. 6,326,177 (to Schoenbach et al.), which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for
all purposes.
[00010] The use of nsPEF for the treatment of tumors is a relatively new field. There exists a
need in the art for the safe and effective treatment of cancer in human subjects.
                                         BRIEF SUMMARY
[00011] It is an object of the present invention to substantially overcome, or at least ameliorate,
one or more disadvantages of existing arrangements.
[00012] Generally, stimulating an immune response of a human being or other subject using
nanosecond pulsed electric field (nsPEF) treatments of a tumor to trigger immunogenic apoptosis

                                                   3
in the tumor, and verifying that the immune response in the subject has been stimulated, is
described. Based on a measurement of the immune response (or lack thereof), a further nsPEF
treatment on the same or another tumor can be implemented. Electrical characteristics of nsPEF
treatments can be based on the size and type of tumor, as well as the degree of tumor sensitivity
to nsPEF and/or a quantity of tumors in the subject.
[00013] Sufficient treatment of a cancerous tumor by nsPEF can cause the expression of
calreticulin (CRT) on the external surface membranes of its tumor cells. Calreticulin expression
may be optimized to trigger the immune response against the underlying cancer. CD47 (cluster
of differentiation 47)-blocking antibodies can be injected into the subject in conjunction with
nsPEF treatment of a tumor as a combination therapy.
[00014] Not only can the triggered immune response attack the nsPEF-treated tumor, but it can
also attack like-cancer cells in other tumors throughout the subject's body where a cancer has
metastasized. Therefore, not every tumor in the body must be individually subject to nsPEF
treatments. Instead, a readily accessible, electrode-compatible tumor may be treated, and then
other tumors can be monitored for shrinkage.
[00015] Metastasized cancer can also be treated by extracting circulating tumor cells (CTCs)
from the subject's bloodstream, subjecting them to nsPEF sufficient to cause calreticulin
expression, and then reinjecting them into the patient's bloodstream. In some cases, a tumor
may be removed from a patient, treated by nsPEF sufficient to cause calreticulin expression, and
then reimplanted back into a patient's body. The reinjected CTCs or reimplanted tumor can then
trigger an immune response against the cancer.
[00016] Some embodiments of the present invention are related to a method for stimulating an
immune response to a disease in a subject. The method includes positioning a set of electrodes
in proximity to a tumor of a disease of a subject, applying, using the electrodes, sub-microsecond
pulsed electric fields to the tumor sufficient to cause the tumor to express calreticulin on surface
membranes of tumor cells of the tumor, and then measuring an immune response biomarker in a
sample of the subject in order to confirm a stimulation of an immune response of the subject
against the disease.

                                                  4
[00017] The method can be performed on human subjects as well as other mammal and animal
subjects. The disease can be cancerous or noncancerous.
[00018] The method can include further applying of sub-microsecond pulsed electric fields
sufficient to stimulate immunogenic apoptosis in the tumor, and it can expressly include
detecting calreticulin on surface membranes of the tumor cells after the applying.
[00019] The method can include introducing CD47-blocking antibodies into the subject, the
CD47-blocking antibodies neutralizing CD47 on the surface membranes of the tumor cells whilst
the calreticulin is expressed on the surface membranes. Introducing of CD47-blocking
antibodies can occur before the positioning or the applying of sub-microsecond pulsed electric
fields.
[00020] The method can include introducing injecting doxorubicin, CTLA-4 (cytotoxic T
lymphocyte antigen 4)-blocking antibodies, and/or PD-I (programmed death 1)-blocking
antibodies into the subject before the applying.
[00021] The measuring of the immune response biomarker can include measuring a
concentration or level of white blood cells in the sample, such as CD4+ or CD8+ T lymphocytes.
Measuring the immune response biomarker can include measuring a concentration or level in the
sample of a member selected from a group consisting of white blood cells, inflammatory
cytokines, C-reactive proteins, and antibodies of cancer cell markers. The method can further
include gauging the immune response biomarker in a sample of the subject before the applying,
and comparing results of the gauging of the immune response biomarker and results of the
measuring of the immune response biomarker in order to confirm the stimulation of the immune
response of the subject.
[00022] The method can include administering an immune booster to the subject within fourteen
days of the applying. It can also include preventing, averting, or forestalling chemotherapy
treatment within one month after the applying.
[00023] The method can include monitoring the immune response biomarker over time in
samples from the subject, perhaps measuring the immune response biomarker between fourteen
to twenty-eight days after the applying. One can treat the tumor again based on the monitoring

                                                  5
by positioning a set of electrodes in proximity to the tumor of the subject, and applying
nanosecond pulsed electric fields to the tumor sufficient to cause the tumor to express
calreticulin on surface membranes of tumor cells of the tumor and sufficient to stimulate
apoptosis in the tumor. The method can include treating a second tumor in the subject, based on
the monitoring, by positioning a set of electrodes in proximity to the second tumor of the subject,
and applying nanosecond pulsed electric fields to the second tumor sufficient to cause the tumor
to express calreticulin on surface membranes of tumor cells of the second tumor and sufficient to
stimulate apoptosis in the second tumor.
[00024] The sub-microsecond pulsed electric fields can have pulse lengths of between 0.1 and
1000 nanoseconds. The sub-microsecond pulsed electric fields can have pulse lengths of
between 10 and 900 nanoseconds. The sub-microsecond pulsed electric fields can have pulse
lengths of about 100 nanoseconds. The sub-microsecond pulsed electric fields can have pulse
amplitudes of at least 20 kilovolts per centimeter.
[00025] The method can include determining a size of the tumor, determining a type of the
tumor, and applying a number of pulses greater than 50 based on the determined size and type of
the tumor. The method can include calculating a target treatment energy based on the
determined size and type of the tumor, and selecting a number of pulses greater than 50, an
amplitude of at least 20 kilovolts per centimeter, or a pulse length between 0.1 and 1000
nanoseconds for the nanosecond pulsed electric fields based on the calculated target treatment
energy.
[00026] A machine-readable tangible storage medium embodying information indicative of
instructions for causing one or more machines to perform the calculating and selecting
operations. The method can further include selecting a repetition frequency of the nanosecond
pulsed electric fields based on the determined size and type of the tumor.
[00027] The method can include quantifying a strength (e.g., a resistance of a tumor in response
to a certain treatment, quantifying nsPEF pulse parameters required to cause apoptosis in the
tumor) of tumor cells of the tumor, and applying a number of pulses greater than 50 based on the
quantifying. The electrodes can include a pair of electrodes, and the positioning includes
positioning one of the pair of electrodes on one side of the tumor and the other of the pair of

                                                    6
electrodes on an opposing side of the tumor, thereby causing the electric fields to pass through
the tumor.
[00028] The electrodes can include configurations selected from the group consisting of parallel
plate electrodes, hemicircular electrodes, six-pole dual electrodes, and two- to fourteen-needle
electrodes arranged in two parallel linear arrays.
[00029] Some embodiments are related to a method for stimulating an immune response to a
tumor in a subject. The method includes gauging an immune response biomarker in a sample of
a subject, identifying a size and a type of a tumor in the subject, calculating a target treatment
energy based on the size and type of the tumor, selecting a number of pulses greater than 50, an
amplitude of at least 20 kilovolts per centimeter, and/or a pulse length of between 0.1 and 1000
nanoseconds for sub-microsecond pulsed electric fields based on the calculated target treatment
energy, flanking at least one pair of electrodes in or around the tumor or a portion thereof,
applying to the tumor, using the at least one pair of electrodes, sub-microsecond pulsed electric
fields having the selected number of pulses, selected amplitude, or selected pulse length, and
then waiting at least seven days, and then measuring the immune response biomarker in a sample
from the subject, comparing the measured and gauged immune response biomarkers, adjusting
the target treatment energy based on the comparison, determining a number of pulses greater
than 50, an amplitude of at least 20 kilovolts per centimeter, and/or a pulse length of between 0.1
and 1000 nanoseconds for nanosecond pulsed electric fields based on the adjusted target
treatment energy; and treating the tumor again by flanking at least one pair of electrodes around
the tumor, and applying to the tumor sub-microsecond pulsed electric fields based on the
determined number of pulses, determined amplitude, or determined pulse length.
[00030] The method can be performed on human subjects as well as other mammal and animal
subjects. The disease can be cancerous or noncancerous.
[00031] Some embodiments are related to a method of reducing metastasis of a disease in a
subject. The method includes determining locations for multiple tumors in a subject, measuring
a size of each tumor, selecting one of multiple tumors based on an accessibility of the locations
and measured sizes of the tumors, and applying, using electrodes, sub-microsecond pulsed
electric fields to the selected tumor sufficient to cause the tumor to express calreticulin on
surface membranes of tumor cells of the selected tumor.

                                                  7
[00032] The method can be performed on human subjects as well as other mammal and animal
subjects. The disease can be cancerous or noncancerous.
[00033] The accessibility of each tumor can be determined by identifying pathways to opposed
sides of the respective tumor that can be contacted by electrodes through pierceable paths in the
subject. A tumor can be selected based on the selected tumor being adjacent to a stomach wall.
[00034] Some embodiments are related to a method of reducing metastasis of a cancerous
disease in a subject. The method can include isolating circulating tumor cells (CTCs) from a
bloodstream of a subject, amassing the tumor cells into an in vitro mass of tumor cells, passing
sub-microsecond pulsed electric fields through the in vitro mass of tumor cells, thereby treating
the tumor cells, and then introducing the treated tumor cells into the subject.
[00035] The method can be performed on human subjects as well as other mammal and animal
subjects. The disease can be cancerous or noncancerous.
[00036] The passing of sub-microsecond pulsed electric fields can be sufficient to cause at least
some of the tumor cells of the in vitro mass to express calreticulin on surface membranes of the
at least some of the tumor cells. The method can include introducing CD47-blocking antibodies
into the subject. The method can optionally include contacting an electrode to the in vitro mass.
[00037] Some embodiments are related to using a biopsy from a tumor to treat a cancerous
disease in a subject. The method includes extracting a sample of cells from a tumor of a subject,
passing sub-microsecond pulsed electric fields through the extracted sample of tumor cells
sufficient to stimulate apoptosis in the tumor cells, thereby treating the tumor cells, confirming
that the tumor cells of the sample have initiated apoptosis and are no longer capable of dividing,
and then introducing the treated tumor cells into the subject. The removal of tumor cells can be
performed by fine needle aspiration or other suitable process.
[00038] The method can be performed on human subjects as well as other mammal and animal
subjects. The disease can be cancerous or noncancerous.
[00039] Yet other embodiments relate to systems and machine-readable tangible storage media
that employ or store instructions for the methods described above.

                                                     8
[00040] According to one aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a method for
stimulating an immune response to a disease in a subject, the method comprising: identifying a
size and a type of a tumor in the subject; calculating a target treatment energy based on the size
and type of the tumor; selecting a number of pulses greater than 50, an amplitude of at least 10
kilovolts per centimeter, or a pulse length of between 0.1 and 1000 nanoseconds for sub
microsecond pulsed electric fields based on the calculated target treatment energy; flanking at
least one pair of electrodes in or around the tumor or a portion thereof; and applying to the
tumor, using the at least one pair of electrodes, sub-microsecond pulsed electric fields having the
selected number of pulses, selected amplitude, or selected pulse length.
[00041] According to another aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a method of
reducing metastasis of a disease in a subject, the method comprising: locating multiple tumors in
a subject; measuring a size for each tumor; selecting one of the multiple tumors based on an
accessibility of the locations and measured sizes of the tumors; and applying, using electrodes,
sub-microsecond pulsed electric fields to the selected tumor sufficient to cause the tumor to
express calreticulin on surface membranes of tumor cells of the selected tumor.
[00042] According to still another aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a method of
inoculating a subject from a disease, the method comprising: passing sub-microsecond pulsed
electric fields sufficient to stimulate apoptosis through a sample of cells extracted from an
abnormal growth from a subject; and reintroducing at least some cells of the sample into the
subject after apoptosis initiated in the at least some cells, so that the at least some cells that have
initiated apoptosis inoculate the subject from the disease.
[00043] According to still another aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a method of
inoculating a subject from a disease, the method comprising: passing sub-microsecond pulsed
electric fields sufficient to stimulate apoptosis through a sample of cells extracted from an
abnormal growth from a subject; and reintroducing at least some cells of the sample into the
subject after initiation of apoptosis in the at least some cells has been confirmed, so that the at
least some cells that have initiated apoptosis inoculate the subject from the disease.
[00044] According to still another aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a method of
reducing metastasis of a disease in a subject, the method comprising: extracting a sample of cells
from an abnormal growth from a subject; passing sub-microsecond pulsed electric fields through

                                                   9
the sample sufficient to stimulate apoptosis in cells; and reintroducing at least some cells of the
sample into the subject after apoptosis initiated in the at least some cells, so that the at least some
cells that have initiated apoptosis reduce metastasis of the disease in the subject.
[00045] Reference to the remaining portions of the specification, including the drawings and
claims, will realize other features and advantages of the present invention. Further features and
advantages of the present invention, as well as the structure and operation of various
embodiments of the present invention, are described in detail below with respect to the
accompanying drawings. In the drawings, like reference numbers indicate identical or
functionally similar elements.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[00046] Preferred embodiments of the invention will be described hereinafter, by way of
examples only, with reference to the accompanying drawings, wherein:
[00047] FIG. 1 illustrates a nanosecond pulse generator apparatus in accordance with an
embodiment.
[00048] FIG. 2 illustrates oscilloscope traces of a pulse profile for both voltage and current in
accordance with an embodiment.
[00049] FIG. 3 is an electrical schematic of a pulse generator shown in FIG. 1.
[00050] FIG. 4 illustrates a perspective view of a seven-needle electrode in accordance with an
embodiment.
[00051] FIG. 5A illustrates a perspective view of a two-pole electrode in accordance with an
embodiment.
[00052] FIG. 5B illustrates an end view of the electrode of FIG. 5A.
[00053] FIG. 6A illustrates a perspective view of a six-pole electrode in accordance with an
embodiment.

                                                10
[00054] FIG. 6B illustrates an end view of the electrode of FIG. 6A.
[00055] FIG. 7A illustrates a perspective view of a hemispherical electrode in accordance with
an embodiment.
[00056] FIG. 7B illustrates an end view of the electrode of FIG. 7A.
[00057] FIG. 8A illustrates a perspective view of a parallel plate electrode in accordance with an
embodiment.
[00058] FIG. 8B illustrates an end view of the electrode of FIG. 8A.
[00059] FIG. 9 includes pictures of typical growth of a first melanoma injected into
immunodeficient mice (Nu/Nu) and immunocompetent mice (SKH-1).
[00060] FIG. 10 includes pictures of a second tumor growing from cells injected 14 days after
the first tumor was removed by surgical excision of the prior art.
[00061] FIG. 11 includes pictures of a second tumor growing from cells injected 28 days after
the first tumor was removed by surgical excision of the prior art.
[00062] FIG. 12 includes pictures of a second tumor growing from cells injected 14 days after
the first tumor was treated with nsPEF nanoelectroablation in accordance with an embodiment.
[00063] FIG. 13 includes pictures of a second tumor growing from cells injected 28 days after
the first tumor was treated with nsPEF nanoelectroablation in accordance with an embodiment.
[00064] FIG. 14 is a line graph of tumor size versus time for immunosuppressed (Nu/Nu) mice
in which the second tumor was injected 14 days after surgical removal or nanoelectroablation in
accordance with an embodiment.
[00065] FIG. 15 is a line graph of tumor size versus time for immunosuppressed (Nu/Nu) mice
in which the second tumor was injected 28 days after surgical removal or nanoelectroablation in
accordance with an embodiment.

                                                 11
[00066] FIG. 16 is a line graph of tumor size versus time for immunocompetent (SKH-1) mice in
which the second tumor was injected 14 days after surgical removal or nanoelectroablation in
accordance with an embodiment.
[00067] FIG. 17 is a line graph of tumor size versus time for immunocompetent (SKH-1) mice in
which the second tumor was injected 28 days after surgical removal or nanoelectroablation in
accordance with an embodiment.
[00068] FIG. 18 is a graph comparing empirical results of secondary tumor growth between
mice having surgically removed primary tumors (solid lines) and one nsPEF-treated primary
tumor (dashed lines) in accordance with an embodiment.
[00069] FIG. 19 is a graph comparing empirical results of secondary tumor growth between
mice having surgically removed primary tumors (solid lines) and three nsPEF-treated primary
tumors (dashed lines) in accordance with an embodiment.
[00070] FIG. 20 is a histological section within a secondary tumor stained to show CD8+
cytotoxic T cells.
[00071] FIG. 21A is an image of an unstained, unbleached tumor section fixed 12 days after
nsPEF treatment in accordance with an embodiment.
[00072] FIG. 21B is an image of the same region as in FIG. 21A but with fluorescent labeling.
[00073] FIG. 22A is an image of an unstained, unbleached tumor section fixed 19 days after
nsPEF treatment in accordance with an embodiment.
[00074] FIG. 22B is an image of the same region as in FIG. 22A but with fluorescent labeling.
[00075] FIG. 23A is an image of an unstained, unbleached second tumor section fixed 19 days
after nsPEF treatment of a first tumor in accordance with an embodiment.
[00076] FIG. 23B is an image of the same region as in FIG. 23A but with fluorescent labeling.

                                                  12
[00077] FIG. 24A is an image of an unstained, unbleached second tumor section fixed 32 days
after nsPEF treatment of a first tumor in accordance with an embodiment.
[00078] FIG. 24B is an image of the same region as in FIG. 24A but with fluorescent labeling.
[00079] FIGS. 25A-25F are images of six different human pancreatic carcinoma cells with
calreticulin labeling after nsPEF treatment in accordance with an embodiment.
[00080] FIGS. 26A-26F are images of six different murine (mouse) squamous cell carcinoma
cells with calreticulin labeling after nsPEF treatment in accordance with an embodiment.
[00081] FIG. 27 is a graph showing percentages of cells that express calreticulin on their surface
membranes after nsPEF treatment in accordance with an embodiment.
[00082] FIG. 28A is an image of a primary liver tumor one week after injection.
[00083] FIG. 28B is an image of a secondary liver tumor three weeks after nsPEF treatment of
the first tumor (in FIG. 28A) in accordance with an embodiment.
[00084] FIG. 29A is an image of a primary liver tumor one week after injection.
[00085] FIG. 29B is an image of a secondary liver tumor one week after injection of tumor cells
that took place three weeks after nsPEF treatment of the first tumor (in FIG. 29A) in accordance
with an embodiment.
                                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[00086] It has been shown that nsPEF treatments can be used to cause cancerous tumors to
express calreticulin on their cell surface membranes, which may be sufficient to stimulate an
immune response that inhibits subsequent tumor growth and/or mitigate metastasis. An nsPEF
treatment can be sufficient to stimulate immunogenic apoptosis in the primary tumor that is
actually subject to the nsPEF pulses, while the immune response can attack secondary tumors
that were not so directly treated.

                                                   13
[00087] A "tumor" includes any neoplasm or abnormal, unwanted growth of tissue on or within
a subject, or as otherwise known in the art. A tumor can include a collection of one or more cells
exhibiting abnormal growth. There are many types of tumors. A malignant tumor is cancerous,
a pre-malignant tumor is precancerous, and a benign tumor is noncancerous. Examples of
tumors include a benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), uterine fibroid, pancreatic carcinoma, liver
carcinoma, kidney carcinoma, colon carcinoma, pre-basal cell carcinoma, and tissue associated
with Barrett's esophagus.
[00088] A "disease" includes any abnormal condition in or on a subject that is associated with
abnormal, uncontrolled growths of tissue, including those that are cancerous, precancerous, and
benign, or other diseases as known in the art.
[00089] "Apoptosis" of a tumor or cell includes an orderly, programmed cell death, or as
otherwise known in the art.
[00090] "Immunogenic apoptosis" of a tumor or cell includes a programmed cell death that is
followed by an immune system response, or as otherwise known in the art. The immune system
response is thought to be engaged when the apoptotic cells express calreticulin or another
antigen on their surfaces, which stimulates dendritic cells to engulf, consume, or otherwise
commit phagocytosis of the targeted cells leading to the consequent activation of a specific T cell
response against the target tumor or cell.
[00091] Pulse lengths of between 10 and 900 nanoseconds for nsPEF have been particularly
studied to be effective in stimulating an immune response. Pulse lengths of about 100
nanoseconds are of particular interest in that they are long enough to carry sufficient energy to be
effective at low pulse numbers but short enough to be effective in the manner desired.
[00092] A time of "about" a certain number of nanoseconds includes times within a tolerance of
±1%, 2%, 3 %, 4%, 5 %, 7 .5 %, 10%, 15 %, 20%, 25 % or other percentages, or fixed tolerances,
such as +0.1, +0.2, +0.3, +0.4, +0.5, +0.7,   1.0, +2.0, +3.0, +4.0 +5.0, +7.0, +10, +15, +20, +25,
+30, +40, +50, +75 ns, or other tolerances as acceptable in the art in conformance with the
effectivity of the time period.

                                                  14
[00093] Immune system biomarkers can be measured before and/or after nsPEF treatment in
order to confirm that the immune response has been triggered in a patient. Further, nsPEF
treatment can be paired with CD47-blocking antibody treatment to better train CD8+ T cells (i.e.,
cytotoxic T cells) for attacking the cancer.
[00094] U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2011/0288545 Al (to Beebe et al.)
discloses that mice with subdermal injections of hepatocellular carcinoma cells (HCC) developed
immunity against HCC after one nsPEF treatment. This conclusion is based on the stagnation of
secondary tumors of HCC, which were initiated in the mice after their first tumors had been
eliminated by nsPEF. Yet, there is no disclosure in the reference of measuring immune response
biomarkers. Instead it was observed that secondary tumors injected after treatment did not grow,
which is an indirect indication of an immune response. The effects of nsPEF on concurrent
secondary tumors (i.e., tumors that exist in the subject that are not treated with nsPEF while a
primary tumor is treated with nsPEF) are not disclosed.
[00095] In an embodiment, immune response biomarkers, such as a concentration of CD4+
and/or CD8+ T lymphocyte white blood cells in the bloodstream of a patient, are sampled in
order to confirm stimulation of the patient's immune system. Other biomarkers include
concentrations and/or levels in a sample inflammatory cytokines, C-reactive proteins, and
antibodies of cancer cell markers. The biomarkers can be gauged or measured both before and
after nsPEF treatment in order to determine or confirm whether, and to what extent, the subject's
immune response has been stimulated.
Combination Therapies
[00096] Induction of tumor antigen-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes often results in growth
inhibition and even shrinkage of solid tumors. Presentation of tumor-derived antigens by
dendritic cells (DC) might be a necessary step in the induction of an immune response to the
tumor. It is thought that DCs can only acquire antigens from apoptotic cells and stimulate
antigen-specific MHC class I-restricted cytotoxic T lymphocytes.
[00097] There are at least three factors that can influence DC phagocytosis of tumor cells: 1)
Apoptotic death may be a requirement for antigen presentation because antigens from necrotic
cells cannot enter this pathway. Moreover, a high ratio of apoptotic cells-to-DCs can also induce

                                                   15
DC maturation and enhance the DC ability to efficiently present antigens derived from the
apoptotic cells to T cells. 2) Exposure of calreticulin on the cell surface may be an "eat me"
signal that stimulates phagocytosis of the tumor cells by DCs. 3) CD47 is commonly highly
expressed on many tumor cells and functions as a "don't eat me" signal, inhibiting the
phagocytosis by DCs. Consequently, blocking CD47 using antibodies directed to it may enhance
phagocytosis and lead to a stronger immune response.
[00098] Proper nanoelectroablation can result in the activation of two of these factors for
phagocytosis of the tumor cells. It triggers apoptosis and the exposure of calreticulin on the
tumor cell surface. This therapy might be even more effective if it is combined with other
therapies known to influence one or more of the three critical factors above. One such
combination therapy is to administer by intraperitoneal (IP) injection antibodies to CD47
approximately twenty-four hours before treating with nsPEF. These antibodies can bind to
tumor cell CD47 and reduce the CD47 inhibitory effect on DCs. NsPEF-stimulated calreticulin
expression can then stimulate DC phagocytosis of the tumors cells so that the DCs can present
tumor antigens to stimulate antigen-specific MHC class I-restricted cytotoxic T lymphocytes.
[00099] Another possible combination therapy is to pretreat the patient with chemotherapeutic
drugs that have been found to stimulate the surface expression of calreticulin. Anthracyclines
and oxaliplatin are important drugs used in the management of leukemia, lymphoma, sarcoma
and uterine, ovarian and breast cancers. They may induce immunogenic apoptosis that is
characterized by the exposure of calreticulin on the cell surface and secretion of adenosine
triphosphate (ATP). Calreticulin and ATP interact with surface receptors on dendritic cells to
promote engulfment of dying cells and presentation of tumor antigens. One of the most popular
of the anthracyclines is doxorubicin (e.g., a ADRIAMYCIN PFS@ or ADRIAMYCIN RDF@
pharmaceutical preparation) because of its lower toxicity and high efficacy against solid tumors
(Cancer Res. 71:4809, July 15, 2011). Therefore, one combination therapy that can enhance the
immune response is to treat patients first with doxorubicin followed by nsPEF treatment of the
tumor.
[000100] Another combination therapy that can be used involves the T cells themselves. On the
surface of just about every helper T cell is a protein called either CTLA-4 or CD152. The
activation of this protein on the helper T cell inhibits the cytotoxic T cell attack when bound by a
tumor cell. Antibodies directed against CTLA-4 have been shown to enhance the immune

                                                  16
response to some tumor types such a melanoma. Injecting antibodies to CTLA-4 into the patient
about 24 hours before treating the tumor with nsPEF may achieve an enhanced immune
response.
[000101] Another member of the CTLA-4 family is the "programmed death 1"(PD-1)
membrane protein. It is found on the surfaces of activated T cells, B cells, and macrophages, and
it negatively regulates immune responses. A receptor for PD-I is PD-LI, and PD-LI is
expressed on almost all murine tumor cell lines. When PD-I binds to this receptor, normal T cell
activation and expansion is inhibited. Antibodies developed against PD-I have been found to
enhance immune function, similar to antibodies against CTLA-4. Another combination therapy
is to inject anti-PD-I antibodies about twenty-four hours before treating the tumor with nsPEF.
[000 102] FIG. I illustrates a nanosecond pulse generator apparatus in accordance with an
embodiment. Pulse widths, duty cycles, and other pulse parameters are controlled by a spark
gap, the critical distance of which is controlled by compressed gas, such as compressed carbon
dioxide. NsPEF system 100 includes pressure readout 101, digitizing oscilloscope 102,
emergency off button 103, and microcontroller interface 104, all connected to nsPEF generation
system 105 within a metal-shielded cabinet.
[000103] A human operator inputs a number of pulses, amplitude, and frequency into a numeric
keypad of microcontroller interface 104. In this embodiment, the pulse width is fixed.
Microcontroller sends signals to a high voltage power supply (HVPS) and pressure system to
control a spark gap (switch) within cabinet 105. Fiber optic cables electrically isolate the
contents of the metal cabinet with nsPEF generation system 105, the high voltage circuit, from
the outside. In order to further isolate the system, system 100 is battery powered instead of from
a wall outlet.
[000 104] FIG. 2 illustrates oscilloscope traces of a pulse profile for both voltage and current in
accordance with an embodiment. Output from the spark gap is shown with voltage on the top of
the figure and amperage on the bottom for a single pulse. The pulse has an amplitude of about
12 kV and an amperage of about 60 A, which lasts for approximately 100 ns. Thus, twelve
kilovolts was applied to suction electrodes with 4 mm between the plates so that the tumors
experienced 30 kV/cm, and current varied between 12 and 60 A. Given a voltage, current
depends heavily on the electrode type and skin resistance.

                                                  17
[000105] FIG. 3 is an electrical schematic of a pulse generator inside nsPEF system 100 wired in
a transmission line arrangement (see FIG. 1). High voltage circuit 300 can be entirely shielded
within the cabinet of nsPEF generation system 105. High voltage circuit 300 includes a high
voltage power supply HVPS, diode D2, resistor Rdischarge, and spark gap switch, all connected
in parallel to ground. Between D2 and Rdischarge is diode D1, and between Rdischarge and the
switch is resistor Rcharge.
[000106] The switch is directly connected to the positively-charged (+) terminals of twelve high
voltage capacitors, C1 through C12. Between each capacitor at the other end (i.e., the opposite
terminal) is a high-current capable inductor, L2 through L12, which are all connected to ground
in series through high current-capable inductor LI and resistor Rtermination. Output from bank
of capacitors flows to a load, modeled as an ideal resistor LOAD, to ground.
[000107] To charge the capacitors, the spark gap switch is opened and the HVPS charges
capacitors Cl-C12. When the spark gap switch is closed, the capacitors rapidly discharge from
their positive terminals through the switch to ground. Electrons from the negative terminals of
the capacitors rush through inductors LI-L12 through LOAD to ground.
[000108] In an exemplary embodiment, discharging through a triggered spark gap delivers a
100-ns long pulse with a 20 ns rise time. Microcontroller interface 104 is used to trigger the
spark gap at 2, 3, 4, 5, or 7 pulses per second (pps), control the voltage level of the power supply
and count the pulses. The pulse counter utilizes the signal generated by a custom current sensor
placed around one of the wires connected to the suction electrode so that only pulses resulting in
current delivery to the tumor are counted.
[000109] FIG. 4 illustrates a perspective view of a seven-needle suction electrode in accordance
with an embodiment. In electrode 400, sheath 401 surrounds seven sharp electrodes 402 with a
broad opening at a distal end. When the open end is placed against a tumor, air is evacuated
from the resulting chamber sufficient to draw the entire tumor or a portion thereof into the
chamber. The tumor is drawn so that one or more of the electrodes preferably penetrates the
tumor. Sharp ends of the electrodes are configured to pierce the tumor. The center electrode is
at one polarity, and the outer six electrodes are at the opposite polarity. Nanopulses electric
fields can then be precisely applied to the tumor using nsPEF system 100 (see FIG. 1).

                                                  18
[000110] The electrodes can be opposed, one of each positive and negative pair of electrodes on
one side of a tumor and the other electrode of the pair on an opposing side of the tumor.
Opposing sides of a tumor can include areas outside or within a tumor, such as if a needle
electrode pierces a portion of the tumor.
[000111] FIGS. 5A-5B illustrates a two-pole suction electrode in accordance with an
embodiment. In electrode device 500, sheath 501 surrounds two broad electrodes on opposite
sides of a chamber. When air is evacuated and a tumor is pulled within the chamber, the
opposing electrodes apply nsPEF pulses to the tumor.
[000112] FIG.S 6A-6B illustrates a six-pole suction electrode in accordance with an
embodiment. In electrode device 600, sheath 601 surrounds six electrodes 602, which are spaced
equally around the circumference of the chamber. One or more of electrodes 602 can be
energized in order to effectively pulse a tumor, which is drawn inside by suction.
[000113] FIGS. 7A-7B illustrates a hemispherical suction electrode in accordance with an
embodiment. In electrode device 700, sheath 701 surrounds two electrodes 702 that curve
around a majority of the circumference of the chamber. Relatively small gaps separate
electrodes 702.
[000114] FIGS. 8A-8B illustrates a parallel plate suction electrode in accordance with an
embodiment. In electrode device 800, circular cross-section sheath 801 surrounds a rectangular
chamber. Along the long sides of the rectangles, flat electrodes 802 are opposed from one
another.
[000115] The nature of the electrode used mainly depends upon the shape of the tumor. Its
physical size and stiffness can also be taken into account in selection of a particular electrode
type.
[000116] U.S. Patent No. 8,688,227 B2 (to Nuccitelli et al.) discloses other suction electrode
based medical instruments and systems for therapeutic electrotherapy, and it is hereby
incorporated by reference.

                                                   19
[000117] If there are multiple tumors in a subject, a surgeon can select a single tumor to treat
based on the tumors compatibility with electrodes. For example, a tumor that is adjacent to a
stomach wall may be more easily accessible than one adjacent a spine or the brain. Because a
nsPEF pulse is preferably applied so that the electric field transits through as much tumor mass
as possible while minimizing the mass of non-tumor cells that are affected, a clear path to two
opposed 'poles' of a tumor may also be a selection criterion.
[000118] A "pierceable path" is a pathway that is unobstructed by bone, nervous system
conduits, vital organs, or other material that is either difficult to pierce with an electrode or more
sensitive to damage than other regions of the body.
[000119] For tumors on or just underneath the skin of subject, needle electrodes can be used
percutaneously. For locations deeper within a subject, a retractable electrode can fit into a
gastroscope, bronchoscope, colonoscope, or other endoscope or laparoscope. For example, a
tumor in a patient's colon can be accessed and treated using an electrode within a colonoscope.
When moving into position within the body of the subject, the retractable electrode is in a
retracted position; when in position at a tumor, the retractable electrode is deployed.
[000120] Barrett's esophogus, in which portions of tissue lining a patient's esophagus are
damaged, may be treated using an electrode placed on an inflatable balloon.
[000121] FIG. 9 includes pictures of typical growth of a first melanoma injected into
immunodeficient mice (Nu/Nu) and immunocompetent mice (SKH-1). The leftmost column
shows reflected light surface views, the second column shows transilluminated views, and the
third column shows fluorescent images of the Nu/Nu mice. The fourth column shows reflected
light surface views, the fifth column shows transilluminated views, and the rightmost column
shows fluorescent images of the SKH-1 mice. The day after injection on which the photographs
were taken is indicated in the upper left of the reflected light image.
[000122] The photographs show normal (control) growth of a melanoma after 2 and 9 days. One
can see that the tumor enlarges.

                                                 20
[000123] FIG. 10 includes pictures of a second tumor growing from cells injected 14 days after
the first tumor was removed by surgical excision of the prior art. The arrangement of pictures is
the same of that as in FIG. 9.
[000124] The photographs show normal (control) growth of second tumors. One can see that the
tumors grow essentially the same as the first tumors.
[000125] FIG. 11 includes pictures of a second tumor growing from cells injected 28 days after
the first tumor was removed by surgical excision of the prior art. The arrangement of pictures is
the same of that as in FIG. 9.
[000126] The photographs show normal (control) growth of second tumors. One can see that the
tumors grow essentially the same as the first tumors.
[000127] FIG. 12 includes pictures of a second tumor growing from cells injected 14 days after
the first tumor was treated with nanoelectroablation in accordance with an embodiment. The
arrangement of pictures is the same of that as in FIG. 9.
[000128] The photographs show a difference in secondary tumor growths between
immunodeficient mice (Nu/Nu) and normal mice (SKH-1). One can see that the secondary
tumor in the normal mice hardly grew, while the secondary tumor in the immunodeficient mice
grew unabated. This demonstrates that the difference is caused by sufficient stimulation of the
immune system by nsPEF.
[000129] FIG. 13 includes pictures of a second tumor growing from cells injected 28 days after
the first tumor was treated with nanoelectroablation in accordance with an embodiment. The
arrangement of pictures is the same of that as in FIG. 9.
[000130] The photographs show a difference in secondary tumor growths between
immunodeficient mice (Nu/Nu) and normal mice (SKH-1). One can see that the secondary
tumor in the normal mice hardly grew, while the secondary tumor in the immunodeficient mice
grew unabated. This demonstrates that the nsPEF-inspired stimulation of the immune system
against secondary tumors is sufficient for tumors that are injected even after 28 days. That is,

                                                21
nsPEF treatment of a primary tumor stimulates the immune system for weeks or months on end,
if not longer or permanently.
[000131] FIG. 14 is a line graph of tumor size versus time for immunosuppressed (Nu/Nu) mice
in which the second tumor was injected 14 days after surgical removal or nanoelectroablation in
accordance with an embodiment. Each mean is an average of three separate experiments, and
the bars represent SEM (standard error of mean).
[000132] Surgical removal and nsPEF does not appear to have any effect on secondary tumors in
immunosuppressed mice.
[000133] FIG. 15 is a line graph of tumor size versus time for immunosuppressed (Nu/Nu) mice
in which the second tumor was injected 28 days after surgical removal or nanoelectroablation in
accordance with an embodiment. Each mean is an average of three separate experiments, and
the bars represent SEM (standard error of mean).
[000134] Again, surgical removal and nsPEF does not appear to have any effect on secondary
tumors in immunosuppressed mice.
[000135] FIG. 16 is a line graph of tumor size versus time for immunocompetent (SKH-1) mice
in which the second tumor was injected 14 days after surgical removal or nanoelectroablation in
accordance with an embodiment.
[000136] There is a striking difference between the growth of secondary tumors in which their
primary tumors are subject to surgical removal or nsPEF. NsPEF of a primary tumor results in a
secondary tumor shrinking in these immunocompetent mice.
[000137] FIG. 17 is a line graph of tumor size versus time for immunocompetent (SKH-1) mice
in which the second tumor was injected 28 days after surgical removal or nanoelectroablation in
accordance with an embodiment.
[000138] Again, there is a striking difference between secondary tumor growth rates. One
secondary tumor decreased in size so substantially that it is evident on the logarithmic scale.

                                                22
[000139] Immunodeficient mice showed no difference between the tumor growth rates of the
initial and secondary tumors. However, in immunocompetent mice, most tumors injected 28
days after the first tumor was treated with nsPEF actually shrank. Immunohistochemical
analysis of these tumors identified CD4+ cells within both the treated tumor as well as in
untreated tumors in animals in which another tumor had been nanoelectroablated.
[000140] However, one drawback of this experiment was that the B16 melanoma cells were
originally derived from C57BL/6 mice so that the SKH-I strain recognized these B16 cells as
foreign. Consequently, the controls in which the tumor was surgically removed rather than
treated with nsPEF also exhibited some inhibition of secondary tumor growth, although to a
lesser degree than that observed in mice with nsPEF-treated tumors.
[000141] In order to eliminate this complication, B6 albino mice derived from the C57BL/6 line
were used for subsequent experiments. These B6 mice do not mount a measurable immune
response against B 16 melanoma cells; therefore, the secondary tumor grows just as fast as the
primary tumor.
[000142] The inventors conducted two types of experiments with B6 albino mice. In the first, a
single tumor was injected into several mice and either surgically removed or treated with nsPEF
seven days post-injection when the tumors were 4 mm in diameter. In the second experiment,
three primary tumors were injected and either surgically removed or treated with nsPEF seven
days post injection. Twenty-eight days later, a secondary tumor was injected and its growth rate
measured for 10-13 days. No inhibition of secondary tumor growth of the tumors in mice was
observed in which the primary tumors were surgically removed. However, in experiments in
which the primary tumors were treated with nsPEF, the secondary tumor injected 28 days later
exhibited inhibited growth compared to the controls without a second nsPEF treatment. In two
of the three treated mice, the secondary tumor actually shrank to about half of its original size by
day ten (see FIG. 19).
[000143] FIG. 18 is a graph comparing empirical results of secondary tumor growth between
mice having surgically removed primary tumors (solid lines) and one nsPEF-treated primary
tumor (dashed lines) in accordance with an embodiment. One 4 mm-wide primary tumor was
either treated with nsPEF or removed surgically followed by the injection of a second tumor 28

                                                 23
days later. Note that the dashed lines mostly fall below the solid lines, indicating that nsPEF
treatments of primary tumors helps in halting growth (or shrinking) secondary tumors.
[000144] FIG. 19 is a graph comparing empirical results of secondary tumor growth between
mice having surgically removed primary tumors (solid lines) and three nsPEF-treated primary
tumors (dashed lines) in accordance with an embodiment. Three 4 mm-wide tumors were treated
with nsPEF or surgically removed followed by the injection of a second tumor 28 days later.
Among a three-tumor data set, a clearer trend of dashed lines below solid lines is visible. A few
of the nsPEF treatments resulted in secondary tumors shrinking to half (0.5) their size.
[000145] Secondary tumor growth is inhibited in B6 albino immunocompetent mice in which the
first tree tumors were nanoelectroblated (three dashed line data sets marked with Xs) but not in
mice in which the first three tumors are surgically removed (solid line data set marked with solid
Os). The black line data set marked with diamonds represents the average growth of the primary
tumors prior to removal or nanoelectroablation.
[000146] FIG. 20 is a histological section of a region within a secondary tumor stained with a
fluorescent antibody to label CD8+ cytotoxic T cells, a result of nsPEF stimulation of primary
tumors in accordance with an embodiment. This shows that the subject's immune system was
sufficiently stimulated with nsPEF.
[000147] FIGS. 21A-21B are images of an unstained and fluorescently labeled tumor section,
respectively, fixed 12 days after nsPEF treatment. The white scale bar represents 200 Pim.
[000148] The fluorescent label from a CD4 antibody indicates surface labeling, but no T cells
could be found within the tumor at this early time point.
[000149] FIGS. 22A-22B are images of an unstained and fluorescently labeled tumor section,
respectively, fixed 19 days after nsPEF treatment.
[000150] Superposition of both Hoechst and anti-CD4 fluorescence from the section shown
indicates the presence of CD4+ T cells (arrows) within the tumor in FIG. 22B. That is, after 19
days of this primary tumor, CD4+ T cells were activated against the tumor.

                                                  24
[000151] FIGS. 23A-23B are images of an unstained and fluorescently labeled secondary tumor
section, respectively, fixed 19 days after nsPEF treatment of a primary tumor.
[000152] Superposition of Hoechst and anti-CD4 fluorescent labels from the section shown
indicates the presence of CD4+ T cells (arrows) within the (untreated) secondary tumor in FIG.
23B.
[000153] FIGS. 24A-24B are images of an unstained and fluorescently labeled second tumor
section fixed 32 days after nsPEF treatment of a first tumor.
[000154] Superposition of Hoechst and anti-CD4 fluorescent labels from the section indicates
the presence of CD4+ T cells (arrows) are found within this untreated (i.e., not directly treated by
nanoelectroablation) tumor.
[000155] Each of FIGS. 21-24 illustrate the arrival of CD4+ T cells against the primary (directly
treated) and secondary (untreated) tumors, a result of proper nsPEF stimulation.
[000156] FIGS. 25A-25F are images of six different human pancreatic carcinoma cells with
calreticulin labeling after nsPEF treatment in accordance with an embodiment. Labeled with
fluorescent anti-calreticulin antibody, the figures indicate the translocation of calreticulin to the
respective human pancreatic carcinoma cell surfaces following nsPEF stimulation.
[000157] The figures shows human pancreatic carcinoma cells that were fixed and labeled two
hours after being treated with 15 pulses of 25 kV/cm and 100 ns. It does not take long for
calreticulin to be detectable on the surface membranes of the tumor cells after nsPEF treatment.
[000158] FIGS. 26A-26F are images of six different murine (mouse) squamous cell carcinoma
cells with calreticulin labeling after nsPEF treatment in accordance with an embodiment.
Labeled with fluorescent anti-calreticulin antibody, the figures indicate the translocation of
calreticulin to the respective murine squamous cell carcinoma cell surfaces following nsPEF
stimulation.
[000159] The figures shows murine squamous cell carcinoma cells that were fixed and labeled
two hours after being treated with 25 pulses of 25 kV/cm and 1OOns.

                                                    25
[000160] Calreticulin is a protein normally found in the endoplasmic reticulum in the cell
interior. Some treatments that trigger apoptosis have been found to stimulate the translocation of
this protein to the plasma membrane where it serves as an additional "eat me" signal for white
blood cells. It is a member of the Damage-Associated Molecular Pattern (DAMPs) family that
has been shown to stimulate an immune response against the cells exhibiting those proteins on
their surface.
[000161] Such sampling of tumor cells for calreticulin can be used to ensure proper, sufficient,
and optimized stimulation of the immune system. For example, calreticulin can be detected on
0.5%, 1%, 2%, 3%, 4%, 5%, 7%, 10%, 12%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 33%, or more of the surface
of a cell can indicate that it is sufficiently expressed for purposes of stimulating an immune
response. The amount of calreticulin may be chosen in order to optimize immune response. The
amount of calreticulin expression in a series of tumor cells can be controlled by the electric field
intensity (e.g., voltage per centimeter), pulse width, number of pulses, and duty cycle of the
pulses of the nsPEF treatment. The electrical current flowing through the cells may be indirectly
controlled by the electric field intensity, a current limiter, or as otherwise known in the art.
[000162] FIG. 27 is a graph showing percentages of cells that express calreticulin on their
surface membranes after nsPEF treatment in accordance with an embodiment. Relative
percentages are shown of both murine squamous cell carcinoma cells and human pancreatic
carcinoma cells exhibiting calreticulin on their surface in response to nsPEF treatment at various
pulse numbers (i.e., 25 kV/cm, 100 ns for the exemplary embodiment). As shown for isolated
human pancreatic carcinoma tumors, 10 pulses maximized calreticulin expression. A maximum
calreticulin expression peak may be optimized by the number of pulses.
[000163] For murine squamous cell carcinoma cells, 25 pulses triggers CRT translocation in
nearly 30% of the treated cells. This treatment was done in a cuvette with parallel plates 2 mm to
4 mm apart. The cells were floating free in the medium rather than packed densely in a tumor.
Under these conditions, the cells are more sensitive to the imposed field and respond to much
lower pulse numbers than when they are in a tumor in vivo.
[000164] FIGS. 28A is an image of a primary liver tumor 1 week after the injection of tumor
cells into the liver and just before it was nsPEF treated. After the FIG. 28A photograph was
taken, the tumor was subject to nsPEF treatment. After three weeks, the first tumor was

                                                    26
completely ablated and a second injection of tumor cells was made into the same liver. One
week later, the FIG. 28B photograph was taken of the secondary tumor. The much smaller size
of this second tumor after the same growth period of 1 week suggests that the immune system
was inhibiting the growth of the second tumor.
[000165] To rule out that the immune system was being stimulated by the tumor cells
themselves (as foreign objects to the body), syngeneic (i.e., genetically identical) tumor cells
were used. These tumors were generated by injecting 106 McA-RH7777 rat liver tumor cells
into the liver of a Buffalo rat.
[000166] FIG. 29A is an image of a primary liver tumor after one week of growth, just before it
is nsPEF treated. After the FIG. 29A photograph was taken, the tumor was subjected to nsPEF
treatment. After three weeks, a second injection of tumor cells was made in the liver. After one
week of growth, the FIG. 29B photograph was taken of the secondary tumor. The growth of the
secondary tumor was strongly inhibited, and the tumor size after 1 week of growth was 95%
smaller on average than the size of the first tumor after 1 week of growth.
[000167] The figure provides evidence that nanoelectroablation of a liver tumor triggers an
immune response against the treated tumor. The second injection of the same number of tumor
cells into a different liver lobe results in a strong inhibition of tumor growth that is probably due
to an immune response as found with the second melanoma tumor injection described above.
[000168] Applying nsPEF to a tumor sufficient to stimulate apoptosis includes at least the
electrical characteristics found experimentally. For example, a 100 ns long pulse with a 20 ns
rise time to 30 kV/cm (kilovolts per centimeter) at 1 to 7 pulses per second (pps) for 500 to 2000
pulses has been found to be sufficient to stimulate apoptosis, depending on the tumor type.
Pulsed electric fields of at least 20 kV/cm have been shown to be effective. A number of pulses
greater than 50 pulses has also been shown to be effective. Current values between 12 A and 60
A resulted, depending on the electrode type and skin resistance.
[000169] For a 2-pole parallel plate, the frequency was 7 pps, and for needle electrodes, the
frequency was lowered to 5 pps. If tumor regrowth occurred, one or more other treatments were
applied until there was no sign of recurrence.

                                                   27
[000170] Measuring an immune response biomarker between 14 and 28 days has been shown to
be an effective time period for determining whether the nanoelectroablation treatment
successfully stimulated an immune response. Gauging an immune response biomarker before
treatment and then comparing the immune response biomarker after treatment to the pre
treatment biomarker can result in a better measure of immune response in some situations.
Subsequent nanoelectroablation treatment of the same or a different tumor can re-stimulate an
immune response or begin stimulating an immune response if the first treatment was
unsuccessful. A quantified sensitivity of the tumor cells to nsPEF can include a measured
growth or reduction in size in a tumor at a specified time after nsPEF therapy.
Stimulation of Immune Response
[000171] It has been surprisingly found that an nsPEF that is applied to a tumor in a subject can
stimulate the production of an immune response to the tumor in the subject. Without being
bound to a particular theory, it is believed that application of the nsPEF to the tumor stimulates,
promotes, or potentiates immunogenic apoptosis in the tumor cell and that subsequently, an
immune response to the tumor cells or cell fragments is stimulated. The immune response to the
tumor cells inhibits subsequent tumor growth (e.g., metastatic tumor growth). Thus, stimulating
immunogenic apoptosis of tumor cells results in the stimulation of an immune response to the
tumor cells that can delay and/or inhibit the growth of subsequent tumors in the subject, reduce
the size of subsequent tumors in the subject, delay and/or inhibit tumor metastasis in the subject,
and/or reduce the size or spread of metastatic tumors in the subject.
[000172] Thus, in one aspect the present invention relates to methods of stimulating an immune
response to a tumor in a subject by applying a nsPEF to the tumor to stimulate apoptosis of the
tumor cells and stimulating the production of an immune response to the tumor cells. In another
aspect, the present invention relates to methods of preventing subsequent tumor growth (e.g.,
metastatic tumor growth) in a subject by applying a nsPEF to the tumor to stimulate apoptosis of
the tumor and stimulating the production of an immune response to the tumor cells.
[000173] A nsPEF treatment that is sufficient to stimulate an immune response may do so by
causing the tumor to express calreticulin (CRT) on surface membranes of its tumor cells. CRT is
a well-documented DAMP that can function as either adjuvant or danger signals for the innate
immune system of a subject. Some DAMPs become enriched on the outer leaflet of plasma

                                                  28
membranes, such as calreticulin and HSP90. These DAMPs can have a beneficial role in cancer
therapy by stimulating an immune system. It has been demonstrated that blockade or
knockdown of calreticulin suppresses the phagocytosis of anthracyclin-treated tumor cells by
dendritic cells and abolishes their immunogenicity in mice (Obeid et al., "Calreticulin exposure
dictates the immunogenicity of cancer death cells," Nature Medicine, January 2007, volume
13(1), pages 54-61). It has also been shown that the amount of phagocytosis by dendritic cells is
directly proportional to the amount of calreticulin expression on cell surfaces of a target cell.
The inventors have demonstrated with their nsPEF equipment that it can trigger calreticulin on
the cell surface of treated cells. This expression of calreticulin on surface membranes of tumor
cells then stimulates the subject's immune response.
[000174] Cancer that has metastasized through a subject's bloodstream may be treated using
nsPEF's immune stimulation properties. For treatment, circulating tumor cells (CTCs) are
isolated from the bloodstream and amassed in vial, test tube, or other suitable in vitro
environment. In some cases, there may only be a few (e.g., 5, 10), tumor cells that are collected
and amassed. Through this mass, an nsPEF electric field is applied in order to treat the cells.
This may or may not cause calreticulin to be expressed on the surface membranes of the tumor
cells. The tumor cells may then be introduced back into the subject's bloodstream by injection,
infusion, or otherwise.
[000175] In an alternative embodiment, single CTCs may also be isolated from the bloodstream,
and each tumor cell treated individually. An automated system that captures CTCs in whole
blood using iron nanoparticles coated with a polymer layer carrying biotin analogues and
conjugated with antibodies for capturing CTCs can automatically capture the tumor cells, and a
magnet and or centrifuge can separate them. After separation from the antibodies, the CTCs may
be treated with nsPEF through a small capillary and then reintroduced to the patient's
bloodstream.
[000176] The treated CTCs, with calreticulin expressed, can trigger an immune response in the
subject against the cancer. A technical advantage of this method is that invasive surgery to
remove a tumor may be avoided by simply treating CTCs. Further, a large number of tumors
may be addressed at one time simply by triggering the body's own immune response. In vivo
electroshocks, and their associated side effects, are avoided.

                                                 29
[000177] In another embodiment, in vivo electroshocks and invasive surgery may wish to be
avoided. A biopsy may be performed to remove a sample of tumor cells from one or a subset of
multiple tumors within a patient. The sample may be cut, split from, peeled, or otherwise
dissociated from the tumor. The sample is then subject to nsPEF treatment. After treatment, an
assay confirms that treated samples have been effectively ablated, experience apoptosis so that
they will no longer divide, and/or sufficiently express calreticulin on surface membranes of
tumor cells of the sample. After confirmation, the biopsy samples are re-injected or otherwise
reintroduced into the patient. A technical advantage of this over treating CTCs is that a much
larger number of cells may be treated and reintroduced into the patient.
[000178] While examples in the application discuss human and murine subjects, the treatment of
other animals is contemplated. Agricultural animals, such as horses and cows, or racing animals,
such as horses, may be treated. Companion animals, such as cats and dogs, may find special use
with the treatments described herein. It may be difficult for a veterinarian to remove many
tumors from a small animal, and cancers may be caught relatively late because the animals
cannot communicate their advancing pain. Further, the risk inherent in reinjecting tumor cells
albeit treated tumor cells-may be worth the potential benefits of potentially halting a
metastasized cancer in a loved pet.
[000179] The methods of the present invention can be used for the treatment of any type of
cancer, whether characterized as malignant, benign, soft tissue, or solid, and cancers of all stages
and grades including pre- and post-metastatic cancers. Examples of different types of cancer
include, but are not limited to, digestive and gastrointestinal cancers such as gastric cancer (e.g.,
stomach cancer), colorectal cancer, gastrointestinal stromal tumors, gastrointestinal carcinoid
tumors, colon cancer, rectal cancer, anal cancer, bile duct cancer, small intestine cancer, and
esophageal cancer; breast cancer; lung cancer; gallbladder cancer; liver cancer; pancreatic
cancer; appendix cancer; prostate cancer, ovarian cancer; renal cancer (e.g., renal cell
carcinoma); cancer of the central nervous system; skin cancer (e.g., melanoma); lymphomas;
gliomas; choriocarcinomas; head and neck cancers; osteogenic sarcomas; and blood cancers.
[000180] Electrical characteristics of nsPEF treatments can be adjusted based on a size and/or a
type of a tumor. Types of tumors may include tumors of different regions of the body, such as
the cancerous tumors described above.

                                                   30
Measuring a Stimulated Immune Response
[000181] In some embodiments, the methods of the present invention comprise applying a
nanosecond pulsed electric field (nsPEF) to a tumor in a subject and measuring the stimulation of
immune response to the tumor in the subject. As used herein, the term "measuring the
stimulation of immune response" in a subject includes determining the presence or level of one
of more biomarkers of immune response in one or more samples from the subject by using any
quantitative or qualitative assay known to one of skill in the art. In some embodiments, an
immune response is stimulated in a subject if the level of expression of one or more biomarkers
of immune response (e.g., 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 or more biomarkers) is above a threshold
level (e.g., a threshold level determined based on an average or mean level of immune response
in a subject or population of subjects having the same type of tumor). In some embodiments, an
immune response is stimulated in a subject if the level of expression of one or more biomarkers
of immune response (e.g., 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 or more biomarkers) is increased by at least
5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 35%, 40%, 45%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90% or more relative
to a control (e.g., a sample from the subject prior to the application of the nsPEF, or a sample
from a control subject in which the nsPEF has not been applied).
[000182] For measuring one or more biomarkers of immune response, one or more biological
samples from the subject can be used. In some embodiments, the sample is from whole blood,
plasma, serum, saliva, urine, stool, tears, any other bodily fluid, tissue samples (e.g., biopsy), and
cellular extracts thereof (e.g., red blood cellular extract). In one embodiment, the sample is a
serum sample. The use of samples such as serum, saliva, and urine is well known in the art (see,
e.g., Hashida et al., J. Clin. Lab. Anal., 11:267-86 (1997)). One skilled in the art will appreciate
that samples such as serum samples can be diluted prior to the analysis of biomarker levels. In
some embodiments, the sample is a biopsy.
Biomarkers of Immune Response
[000183] In some embodiments, the biomarker of immune response is a white blood cell, for
example, but not limited to a lymphocyte. In some embodiments, the biomarker of immune
response is a T cell. Examples of T cells include, but are not limited to, CD4+ T cells and CD8+
T cells. In some embodiments, the biomarker of immune response is a cell that is positive for
one or more of the CD markers CD3, CD4, CD8, CD16, or CD56.

                                                 31
[000184] In some embodiments, the biomarker of immune response is a cytokine. The term
"cytokine" includes any of a variety of polypeptides or proteins secreted by immune cells that
regulate a range of immune system functions and encompasses small cytokines such as
chemokines. In some embodiments, the biomarker of immune response is an inflammatory
cytokine. In some embodiments, the biomarker of immune response is a cytokine selected from
GM-CSF, IL2, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-10, IL-12, IL-13, IL-15, interferon-y, or TNF-U.
[000185] In some embodiments, the biomarker of immune response is a polypeptide or protein
that is produced in an inflammatory or immune response. In some embodiments, the biomarker
of immune response is acute phase protein, including but not limited to C-reactive protein (CRP)
or serum amyloid A.
[000186] In some embodiments, the biomarker of immune response is an antibody to a tumor
cell surface marker. As used herein, the term "antibody" includes a population of
immunoglobulin molecules, which can be polyclonal or monoclonal and of any isotype, or an
immunologically active fragment of an immunoglobulin molecule. Such an immunologically
active fragment contains the heavy and light chain variable regions, which make up the portion
of the antibody molecule that specifically binds an antigen. For example, an immunologically
active fragment of an immunoglobulin molecule known in the art as Fab, Fab' or F(ab')2 is
included within the meaning of the term antibody. In some embodiments, the biomarker of
immune response is an antibody to a cell surface tumor-associated antigen (TAA). In some
embodiments, the biomarker of immune response is an antibody to a tumor cell surface marker
selected from Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 2 (HER2), Epidermal Growth Factor
Receptor (EGFR), Carbonic Anhydrase IX (CAIX), Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor
Receptor (VEGFR), VEGFR2, c-Met, prostate stem cell antigen (PSCA), Epithelial-Specific
Cell Adhesion Activation Molecule (EpCAM), carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), or CA-125.
[000187] In some embodiments, stimulation of an immune response is measured by determining
the level or concentration of one or more biomarkers of immune response (e.g., 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7,
8, 9, 10 or more biomarkers of immune response) selected from the group consisting of a white
blood cell, a CD4+ T cell, a CD8+ T cell, a natural killer T cell, GM-CSF, IL2, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6,
IL-10, IL-12, IL-13, IL-15, interferon-7, TNF-a, C-reactive protein, serum amyloid A, and an
antibody to a tumor cell surface marker (e.g., a cell surface tumor-associated antigen (TAA),
Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 2 (HER2), Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor

                                                   32
(EGFR), Carbonic Anhydrase IX (CAIX), Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor
(VEGFR), VEGFR2, c-Met, prostate stem cell antigen (PSCA), Epithelial-Specific Cell
Adhesion Activation Molecule (EpCAM), carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), or CA-125). One
skilled in the art will recognize that other tumor cell surface markers are suitable for use in the
present invention.
Assays for Measuring Stimulation of Immune Response
[000188] Any of a variety of assays, techniques, and kits known in the art can be used to
measure the stimulation of immune response in a sample. In some embodiments, a qualitative
assay is used to determine whether the concentration or level of the one or more biomarkers of
immune response is above a threshold level or is increased relative to a control. In some
embodiments, a quantitative assay is used to determine the relative or absolute amount of the one
or more biomarkers of immune response, e.g., for determining whether the concentration or level
of the one or more biomarkers of immune response is above a threshold level or is increased
relative to a control.
[000189] In some embodiments, the concentration or level of a biomarker of immune response
(e.g., a white blood cell, a cytokine, a protein produced in an inflammatory or immune response,
or an antibody to a tumor cell surface marker) is measured by flow cytometry. Flow cytometry
methods and instrumentation are known in the art. Descriptions of instrumentation and methods
can be found, e.g., in Introduction to Flow Cytometry: A Learning Guide (2000) Becton,
Dickinson, and Company; McHugh, "Flow Microsphere Immunoassay for the Quantitative and
Simultaneous Detection of Multiple Soluble Analytes," Methods in Cell Biology 42, Part B
(Academic Press, 1994).
[000190] In some embodiments, the concentration or level of a biomarker of immune response
(e.g., a white blood cell, a cytokine, a protein produced in an inflammatory or immune response,
or an antibody to a tumor cell surface marker) is measured by phage display. For example,
phage display technology for expressing a recombinant antigen specific for an antibody
biomarker (e.g., an antibody to a tumor cell surface marker) can also be used to determine the
presence or level of the antibody biomarker. Phage particles expressing an antigen specific for,
e.g., an antibody marker, can be anchored, if desired, to a multi-well plate using an antibody
such as an anti-phage monoclonal antibody (Felici et al., "Phage-Displayed Peptides as Tools for

                                                   33
Characterization of Human Sera" in Abelson (Ed.), Methods in Enzymol., 267, San Diego:
Academic Press, Inc. (1996)).
[000191] In some embodiments, the concentration or level of a biomarker of immune response
(e.g., a white blood cell, a cytokine, a protein produced in an inflammatory or immune response,
or an antibody to a tumor cell surface marker) is measured by immunoassay. A variety of
immunoassay techniques, including competitive and non-competitive immunoassays, can be
used to determine the concentration or level of the one or more biomarkers of immune response.
See, e.g., Self and Cook, Curr. Opin. Biotechnol., 7:60-65 (1996)). The term immunoassay
encompasses techniques including, without limitation, enzyme immunoassays (EIA) such as
enzyme multiplied immunoassay technique (EMIT), enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay
(ELISA), antigen capture ELISA, sandwich ELISA, IgM antibody capture ELISA (MAC
ELISA), and microparticle enzyme immunoassay (MEIA); capillary electrophoresis
immunoassays (CEIA); radioimmunoassays (RIA); immunoradiometric assays (IRMA);
fluorescence polarization immunoassays (FPIA); and chemiluminescence assays (CL). If
desired, such immunoassays can be automated. Immunoassays can also be used in conjunction
with laser-induced fluorescence (see, e.g., Schmalzing and Nashabeh, Electrophoresis, 18:2184
2193 (1997); Bao, J. Chromatogr. B. Biomed. Sci., 699:463-480 (1997)). Liposome
immunoassays, such as flow-injection liposome immunoassays and liposome immunosensors,
are also suitable for use in the present invention (see, e.g., Rongen et al., J. Immunol. Methods,
204:105-133 (1997)). In addition, nephelometry assays, in which the formation of
protein/antibody complexes results in increased light scatter that is converted to a peak rate
signal as a function of the marker concentration, are suitable for use in the present invention.
Nephelometry assays are commercially available from Beckman Coulter (Brea, CA; Kit
#449430) and can be performed using a Behring Nephelometer Analyzer (Fink et al., J. Clin.
Chem. Clin. Biol. Chem., 27:261-276 (1989)).
[000192] In some embodiments, antigen capture ELISA can be used to determine the presence
or level of one or more biomarkers of immune response in a sample. For example, in an antigen
capture ELISA, an antibody directed to a marker of interest is bound to a solid phase and sample
is added such that the marker is bound by the antibody. After unbound proteins are removed by
washing, the amount of bound marker can be quantitated using, e.g., a radioimmunoassay (see,
e.g., Harlow and Lane, Antibodies: A Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, New

                                                   34
York, 1988)). Sandwich ELISA can also be suitable for use in the present invention. For
example, in a two-antibody sandwich assay, a first antibody is bound to a solid support, and the
marker of interest is allowed to bind to the first antibody. The amount of the marker is
quantitated by measuring the amount of a second antibody that binds the marker. The antibodies
can be immobilized onto a variety of solid supports, such as magnetic or chromatographic matrix
particles, the surface of an assay plate (e.g., microtiter wells), pieces of a solid substrate material
or membrane (e.g., plastic, nylon, paper), and the like. An assay strip can be prepared by coating
the antibody or a plurality of antibodies in an array on a solid support. This strip can then be
dipped into the test sample and processed quickly through washes and detection steps to generate
a measurable signal, such as a colored spot.
[000193] A radioimmunoassay using, for example, an iodine-125 (1251) labeled secondary
antibody (Harlow and Lane, supra) is also suitable for determining the presence or level of one
or more biomarkers of immune response in a sample. A secondary antibody labeled with a
chemiluminescent marker can also be suitable for use in the present invention. A
chemiluminescence assay using a chemiluminescent secondary antibody is suitable for sensitive,
non-radioactive detection of marker levels. Such secondary antibodies can be obtained
commercially from various sources, e.g., Amersham Lifesciences, Inc. (Arlington Heights, IL).
[000194] Specific immunological binding of an antibody to one or more biomarkers of immune
response can be detected directly or indirectly. Direct labels include fluorescent or luminescent
tags, metals, dyes, radionuclides, and the like, attached to the antibody. An antibody labeled
with iodine-125 (1251) can be used for determining the levels of one or more markers in a
sample. A chemiluminescence assay using a chemiluminescent antibody specific for the marker
is suitable for sensitive, non-radioactive detection of marker levels. An antibody labeled with
fluorochrome is also suitable for determining the levels of one or more markers in a sample.
Examples of fluorochromes include, without limitation, DAPI, fluorescein, Hoechst 33258, R
phycocyanin, B-phycoerythrin, R-phycoerythrin, rhodamine, Texas red, and lissamine.
Secondary antibodies linked to fluorochromes can be obtained commercially, e.g., goat F(ab')2
anti-human IgG-FITC is available from Tago Immunologicals (Burlingame, CA) or its current
incarnation, such as BioSource, Invitrogen, or Life Technologies.
[000195] Indirect labels include various enzymes well-known in the art, such as horseradish
peroxidase (HRP), alkaline phosphatase (AP), p-galactosidase, urease, and the like. A

                                                 35
horseradish-peroxidase detection system can be used, for example, with the chromogenic
substrate tetramethylbenzidine (TMB), which yields a soluble product in the presence of
hydrogen peroxide that is detectable at 450 nm. An alkaline phosphatase detection system can
be used with the chromogenic substrate p-nitrophenyl phosphate, for example, which yields a
soluble product readily detectable at 405 nm. Similarly, a p-galactosidase detection system can
be used with the chromogenic substrate o-nitrophenyl-p-D-galactopyranoside (ONPG), which
yields a soluble product detectable at 410 nm. An urease detection system can be used with a
substrate such as urea-bromocresol purple (Sigma Immunochemicals; St. Louis, MO). A useful
secondary antibody linked to an enzyme can be obtained from a number of commercial sources,
e.g., goat F(ab')2 anti-human IgG-alkaline phosphatase can be purchased from Jackson
ImmunoResearch (West Grove, PA).
[000196] A signal from the direct or indirect label can be analyzed, for example, using a
spectrophotometer to detect color from a chromogenic substrate; a radiation counter to detect
radiation such as a gamma counter for detection of 1251; or a fluorometer to detect fluorescence
in the presence of light of a certain wavelength. For detection of enzyme-linked antibodies, a
quantitative analysis of the amount of marker levels can be made using a spectrophotometer such
as an EMAX Microplate Reader (Molecular Devices; Menlo Park, CA) in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions. If desired, the assays of the present invention can be automated or
performed robotically, and the signal from multiple samples can be detected simultaneously.
[000197] Quantitative Western blotting can also be used to detect or determine the presence or
level of one or more biomarkers of immune response in a sample. Western blots can be
quantitated by well-known methods such as scanning densitometry or phosphorimaging. As a
non-limiting example, protein samples are electrophoresed on 10% SDS-PAGE Laemmli gels.
Primary murine monoclonal antibodies are reacted with the blot, and antibody binding can be
confirmed to be linear using a preliminary slot blot experiment. Goat anti-mouse horseradish
peroxidase- coupled antibodies (BioRad, Hercules, CA) are used as the secondary antibody, and
signal detection performed using chemiluminescence, for example, with the Renaissance
chemiluminescence kit (New England Nuclear; Boston, MA) according to the manufacturer's
instructions. Autoradiographs of the blots are analyzed using a scanning densitometer
(Molecular Dynamics; Sunnyvale, CA) and normalized to a positive control. Values are
reported, for example, as a ratio between the actual value to the positive control (densitometric

                                                   36
index). Such methods are well known in the art as described, for example, in Parra et al., J.
Vasc. Surg., 28:669-675 (1998).
[000198] Alternatively, a variety of immunohistochemical assay techniques can be used to
determine the presence or level of one or more biomarkers of immune response in a sample. The
term immunohistochemical assay encompasses techniques that utilize the visual detection of
fluorescent dyes or enzymes coupled (i.e., conjugated) to antibodies that react with the marker of
interest using fluorescent microscopy or light microscopy and includes, without limitation, direct
fluorescent antibody assay, indirect fluorescent antibody (IFA) assay, anticomplement
immunofluorescence, avidin-biotin immunofluorescence, and immunoperoxidase assays. An
IFA assay, for example, is useful for determining whether a sample is positive for a biomarker,
the level of biomarker in a sample, and/or a biomarker's staining pattern. The concentration of
the biomarker in a sample can be quantitated, e.g., through endpoint titration or through
measuring the visual intensity of fluorescence compared to a known reference standard.
[000199] In some embodiments, the concentration or level of a biomarker of immune response
(e.g., a white blood cell, a cytokine, a protein produced in an inflammatory or immune response,
or an antibody to a tumor cell surface marker) is measured by detecting or quantifying the
amount of the purified marker. Purification of the marker can be achieved, for example, by high
pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC), alone or in combination with mass spectrometry (e.g.,
MALDI/MS, MALDI-TOF/MS, tandem MS, etc.). Qualitative or quantitative detection of a
marker of interest can also be determined by well-known methods including, without limitation,
Bradford assays, Coomassie blue staining, silver staining, assays for radiolabeled protein, and
mass spectrometry.
[000200] In some embodiments, the concentration or level of a biomarker of immune response
(e.g., a white blood cell, a cytokine, a protein produced in an inflammatory or immune response,
or an antibody to a tumor cell surface marker) is measured by analysis of marker mRNA levels
using routine techniques such as Northern analysis, reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain
reaction (RT-PCR), or any other methods based on hybridization to a nucleic acid sequence that
is complementary to a portion of the marker coding sequence (e.g., slot blot hybridization) are
also within the scope of the present invention. Applicable PCR amplification techniques are
described in, e.g., Ausubel et al., Current Protocols in Molecular Biology, John Wiley & Sons,
Inc. New York (1999), Chapter 7 and Supplement 47; Theophilus et al., "PCR Mutation

                                                  37
Detection Protocols," Humana Press, (2002); and Innis et al., PCR Protocols, San Diego,
Academic Press, Inc. (1990). General nucleic acid hybridization methods are described in
Anderson, "Nucleic Acid Hybridization," BIOS Scientific Publishers, 1999. Amplification or
hybridization of a plurality of transcribed nucleic acid sequences (e.g., mRNA or cDNA) can
also be performed from mRNA or cDNA sequences arranged in a microarray. Microarray
methods are generally described in Hardiman, "Microarrays Methods and Applications: Nuts &
Bolts," DNA Press, 2003; and Baldi et al., "DNA Microarrays and Gene Expression: From
Experiments to Data Analysis and Modeling," Cambridge University Press, 2002.
[000201] For the detection of a plurality of biomarkers (e.g., 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 or more
biomarkers), the analysis of the biomarkers may be carried out separately or simultaneously with
one test sample. For separate or sequential assay of markers, suitable apparatuses include
clinical laboratory analyzers such as the ElecSys (Roche), the AxSym (Abbott), the Access
(Beckman), the ADVIA@, the CENTAUR® (Bayer), and the NICHOLS ADVANTAGE®
(Nichols Institute) immunoassay systems. Preferred apparatuses or protein chips perform
simultaneous assays of a plurality of markers on a single surface. Particularly useful physical
formats comprise surfaces having a plurality of discrete, addressable locations for the detection
of a plurality of different markers. Such formats include protein microarrays, or "protein chips"
(see, e.g., Ng et al., J. Cell Mol. Med., 6:329-340 (2002)) and certain capillary devices (see, e.g.,
U.S. Patent No. 6,019,944). In these embodiments, each discrete surface location may comprise
antibodies to immobilize one or more markers for detection at each location. Surfaces may
alternatively comprise one or more discrete particles (e.g., microparticles or nanoparticles)
immobilized at discrete locations of a surface, where the microparticles comprise antibodies to
immobilize one or more markers for detection. Yet another suitable format for performing
simultaneous assays of a plurality of markers is the Luminex MultiAnalyte Profiling (xMAP)
technology, previously known as FlowMetrix and LabMAP (Elshal and McCoy, 2006), a
multiplex bead-based flow cytometric assay that utilizes polystyrene beads that are internally
dyed with different intensities of red and infrared fluorophores. The beads can be bound by
various capture reagents such as antibodies, oligonucleotides, and peptides, therefore facilitating
the quantification of various biomarkers such as proteins, ligands, DNA and RNA (Fulton et al.,
1997; Kingsmore, 2006; Nolan and Mandy, 2006, Vignali, 2000; Ray et al., 2005).

                                                   38
[000202] Several biomarkers of interest may be combined into one test for efficient processing
of a multiple of samples. In addition, one skilled in the art would recognize the value of testing
multiple samples (e.g., at successive time points, etc.) from the same subject. For example,
samples can be collected daily, weekly, monthly, or at other intervals from a subject and tested.
Such testing of serial samples can allow the identification of changes in marker levels over time.
Increases or decreases in marker levels, as well as the absence of change in marker levels, can
also provide useful information to measure and/or quantify stimulation of immune response.
[000203] An immune booster can be administered in order to help create conditions for
stimulating the immune systems. Natural and synthetic supplements that have been thought to
be immune boosters at one time or another include flaxseed oil, sodium ascorbate (i.e., vitamin
C), calcium ascorbate, magnesium ascorbate, potassium ascorbate, zinc ascorbate, manganese
ascorbate, and chromium ascorbate, and cayenne pepper (capsicum), astragalus, Echinacea,
esberitox, olive leaf extract, sambucus (elderberry), umcka, (umckaloabo), and zinc.
[000204] It is understood that the various embodiments described herein are by way of example
only, and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention. For example, many of the
materials and structures described herein may be substituted with other materials and structures
without deviating from the spirit of the invention. The present invention as claimed may
therefore include variations from the particular examples and preferred embodiments described
herein, as will be apparent to one of skill in the art. It is understood that various theories as to
why the invention works are not intended to be limiting.
[000205] The above description is illustrative and is not restrictive. Many variations of the
invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon review of the disclosure. The
scope of the invention should, therefore, be determined not with reference to the above
description, but instead should be determined with reference to the pending claims along with
their full scope or equivalents.
[000206] As noted previously, all measurements, dimensions, and materials provided herein
within the specification or within the figures are by way of example only.
[000207] A recitation of "a," "an," or "the" is intended to mean "one or more" unless
specifically indicated to the contrary. Reference to a "first" component does not necessarily

                                                 39
require that a second component be provided. Moreover reference to a "first" or a "second"
component does not limit the referenced component to a particular location unless expressly
stated.
[000208] All publications mentioned herein are incorporated herein by reference to disclose and
describe the methods and/or materials in connection with which the publications are cited. The
publications discussed herein are provided solely for their disclosure prior to the filing date of
the present application. Nothing herein is to be construed as an admission that the present
invention is not entitled to antedate such publication by virtue of prior invention. Further, the
dates of publication provided may be different from the actual publication dates, which may need
to be independently confirmed.

                                                   40
CLAIMS
1.     A method of inoculating a subject from a disease, the method comprising:
         passing sub-microsecond pulsed electric fields sufficient to stimulate apoptosis through a
sample of cells extracted from an abnormal growth from a subject; and
         reintroducing at least some cells of the sample into the subject after apoptosis initiated in
the at least some cells, so that the at least some cells that have initiated apoptosis inoculate the
subject from the disease.
2.     A method of inoculating a subject from a disease, the method comprising:
         passing sub-microsecond pulsed electric fields sufficient to stimulate apoptosis through a
sample of cells extracted from an abnormal growth from a subject; and
         reintroducing at least some cells of the sample into the subject after initiation of apoptosis
in the at least some cells has been confirmed, so that the at least some cells that have initiated
apoptosis inoculate the subject from the disease.
3.     The method of claims 1 or 2, wherein the sample is extracted by aspiration.
4.     The method of any preceding claim, the method comprising reintroducing the at least some
cells of the sample by injection or infusion.
5.     The method of any preceding claim, wherein the initiation of apoptosis has been confirmed
by detecting calreticulin on surface membranes of the at least some cells.
6.     The method of any preceding claim, the method comprising introducing CD47-blocking
antibodies into the subject, the CD47-blocking antibodies neutralizing CD47 on surface
membranes of cells of the abnormal growth.
7.     The method of claim 6, wherein CD47-blocking antibodies are introduced to the extracted
sample of cells before or after the passing of sub-microsecond pulsed electric fields.
8.     The method of any preceding claim, the method comprising introducing doxorubicin into
the subject.
1ACChO1  1

                                                   41
9.     The method of any preceding claim, the method comprising introducing CTLA-4-blocking
antibodies and/or PD-1-blocking antibodies into the subject.
10.    The method of any preceding claim, wherein a pulse length of the sub-microsecond pulsed
electric fields is at least 100 nanoseconds.
11.    The method of any preceding claim, the method comprising obtaining a measurement of an
immune response biomarker in a second sample of the subject to confirm a stimulation of an
immune response of the subject against the disease.
12.    The method of any preceding claim, wherein the abnormal growth is cancerous,
precancerous or benign.
13.    A method of reducing metastasis of a disease in a subject, the method comprising:
         extracting a sample of cells from an abnormal growth from a subject;
         passing sub-microsecond pulsed electric fields through the sample sufficient to stimulate
apoptosis in cells; and
         reintroducing at least some cells of the sample into the subject after apoptosis initiated in
the at least some cells, so that the at least some cells that have initiated apoptosis reduce
metastasis of the disease in the subject.
14.    The method of claim 13 wherein the abnormal growth includes a tumor.
15.    The method of claims 13 or 14, comprising obtaining a confirmation that the at least some
cells of the sample have initiated apoptosis.
16.    The method of claim 15, wherein the obtaining the confirmation includes obtaining results
of detection of calreticulin on surface membranes of the at least some cells.
17.    The method of any one of claims 13-16, the method comprising obtaining a measure of at
least one immune response biomarker in a second sample of the subject to confirm a stimulation
of an immune response of the subject against the disease.
1AKCOO1  1

                                                  42
18.     The method of claims 11 or 17, wherein obtaining the measurement of the at least one
immune response biomarker is automated and/or performed robotically.
19.     The method of claims 17 or 18, wherein obtaining the measurement comprises gauging a
concentration or level in a second sample of one or more of the following: white blood cells,
inflammatory cytokines, C-reactive proteins, or antibodies of cancer cell markers.
20.     The method of any preceding claim, wherein the extracting of the sample comprises
extracting tumor cells from a bloodstream of the subject.
21.     The method of any preceding claims 13-20, wherein the sub-microsecond pulsed electric
fields includes an amplitude of at least 10 kilovolts per centimeter and a pulse length of between
0.1 and 1000 nanoseconds.
22.     The method of any preceding claims 13-21, wherein a pulse length of the sub-microsecond
pulsed electric fields is at least 100 nanoseconds.
23.     The method of any preceding claims 13-22, wherein the abnormal growth is selected
among multiple tumors in the subject based on an accessibility of locations and/or measured
sizes of the multiple tumors.
24.     The method of any preceding claims 13-23, the method comprising introducing into the
subject or into the sample one or more of the following: CD47-blocking antibodies, CTLA-4
blocking antibodies, PD-1-blocking antibodies, or doxorubicin.
                                        Pulse Biosciences, Inc.
                      Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                      SPRUSON & FERGUSON
1AKC2OO1 1

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
