    Abstract
    A method of determining a characteristic of a power transformer is provided. The
    power transformer has an input current, an input voltage, an output current and an
    output voltage. The method comprises measuring the input current and a voltage
  5 difference between the input voltage and the output voltage of the power transformer
    while the power transformer is in use within a power distribution network. Information
    that is indicative of at least one property of a test locus plot from the measured input
    current and voltage difference of the power transformer is derived and compared to
    information that is indicative of at least one property of a reference locus plot
io  associated with a reference power transformer. From the comparison, it is
    determined whether a characteristic of the power transformer differs from that of the
    reference power transformer.
    9822063_1(GHMatters)P90871.AU.1

                                                      1
                 A METHOD OF DETERMINING A CHARACTERISTIC OF A POWER
                                     TRANSFORMER AND A SYSTEM THEREFOR
   Field of the Invention
 5                The present invention relates to a method of detecting a characteristic of a
   power transformer and a system therefor.
   Background of the Invention
                   Power transformers are critical components within electrical transmission
10 and distribution systems. Failure of a power transformer, when in service, can result
   in an extended power outage, costly repairs and/or serious injury or fatality.
                  When in operation, a power transformer is exposed to faults, switching
   transients, and other system events that result in magnetic forces being imposed on
   windings of the power transformer. If these forces exceed certain thresholds, then
15 winding deformation can occur.
                  Although power transformers are designed to survive a number of short
   circuit faults without failing, if a power transformer has been subjected to winding
   deformation, the likelihood of surviving further short-circuits can be reduced due to
   locally increased electromagnetic stresses.
20                Currently, frequency-response analysis (FRA) is used to detect winding
   deformation of a power transformer, however this technique involves switching the
   power transformer off and taking the power transformer out of service, which can
   lead to power network disruptions. Further, the interpretation of FRA results is a
   highly specialized area and requires expert personnel to determine the type and
25 possible location of the fault.
   Summary of the Invention
                   In accordance with a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
   method of determining a characteristic of a power transformer, the characteristic
30 being associated with a mechanical fault or a dielectric fault of the power
   transformer, the power transformer having an input current, an input voltage, an
   output current and an output voltage, the method comprising the steps of:
   9822063_1 (GHMatters) P90871.AU.1

                                                              2
                   measuring the input current and a voltage difference between the input
                              voltage and the output voltage of the power transformer while the
                               power transformer is in use within a power distribution network;
                  deriving information that is indicative of at least one property of a test locus
 5                             plot from the measured input current and voltage difference of the
                               power transformer;
                  comparing, by an image processing code and based on the derived
                               information, ellipse features of the test locus plot to ellipse features of a
                               reference locus plot associated with a reference power transformer so
10                             as to determine differences therebetween, determined differences
                               being indicative that the characteristic of the power transformer differs
                              from the characteristic of the reference power transformer; and
                   using the determined differences to categorise, by a further image
                               processing code, the characteristic of the power transformer, and to
15                             identify a type of mechanical fault or dielectric fault of the power
                              transformer.
                   In accordance with a second aspect of the present invention, there is
   provided a method of determining a characteristic of a power transformer, the
   characteristic being associated with a mechanical fault or a dielectric fault, the power
20 transformer having an input current, an input voltage, an output current and an
   output voltage, the method comprising the steps of:
                   measuring the input current and a voltage difference between the input
                              voltage and the output voltage of the power transformer while the
                               power transformer is in use within a power distribution network;
25                deriving information that is indicative of at least one property of a test locus
                               plot from the measured input current and voltage difference of the
                               power transformer; and
                  comparing the information that is indicative of the at least one property of the
                              test locus plot to information that is indicative of at least one property of
30                             a reference locus plot associated with a reference power transformer
                               so as to determine whether a characteristic of the power transformer
                               differs from that of the reference power transformer;
   9822063_1 (GHMatters) P90871.AU.1

                                                              3
                  wherein the step of comparing comprises comparing the test locus plot to
                              the reference locus plot so as to identify visual differences
                              therebetween, and/or comparing ellipse features of the test locus plot
                              to ellipse features of the reference locus plot so as to determine
 5                             differences therebetween;
                  wherein the visual differences include a rotation of the test locus plot
                               compared to the reference locus plot, and/or a change in an area of an
                               internal region of the test locus plot compared to the reference locus
                               plot.
10                The following introduces features of the method in accordance with the first
   and/or the second aspects.
                   In one embodiment, the characteristic is a characteristic of at least one
   winding of the power transformer. The characteristic of the at least one winding of
   the power transformer may be a characteristic for which a chance of the power
15 transformer failing increases if the power transformer is subjected to a mechanical
   fault or a dielectric fault, for example a short-circuit fault, if the characteristic differs
   from that of the reference power transformer.
                   In one embodiment, the power transformer is energized by an alternating
   current having a mains frequency of an electrical network to which the power
20 transformer is, in use, connected.
                   In one embodiment, the method comprises a step of categorising the
   characteristic of the at least one winding based on the comparing step. The
   characteristic of the at least one winding may be categorised as any one of the
   group comprising: an interdisk fault, an axial displacement fault, a buckling stress
25 fault, a leakage (disk to ground) fault, and a disk space variation fault.
                  The method may comprise the step of determining whether the characteristic
   of the at least one of the windings of the power transformer differs from that of the
   reference power transformer based on any visual differences between the test locus
   plot and the reference locus plot.
30                 Determined visual differences between the test locus plot and the reference
   locus plot may be used to categorise the characteristic of the at least one winding.
   9822063_1 (GHMatters) P90871.AU.1

                                                    4
                  An interdisk fault may be determined by determining that the test locus plot
   rotates clockwise and an area of an internal region of the test locus plot increases
   compared to the reference locus plot. A magnitude of the interdisk fault may be
   determined based on an amount by which the test locus plot rotates clockwise and
 5 increases in area compared to the reference locus plot.
                  An axial displacement fault may be determined by determining that an area
   of an internal region of the test locus plot decreases compared to the reference locus
   plot, but wherein the test locus plot undergoes no substantial rotation compared to
   the reference locus plot. A magnitude of the axial displacement fault may be
10 determined based on an amount by which the area of the test locus plot decreases
   compared to the reference locus plot.
                  A buckling stress fault may be determined by determining that the test locus
   plot rotates clockwise and an area of an internal region of the test locus plot
   increases compared to the reference locus plot, wherein the test locus plot rotates
15 clockwise with a smaller magnitude than that of a comparable interdisk fault. A
   magnitude of the buckling stress fault may be determined based on an amount by
   which the test locus plot rotates clockwise and increases in area compared to the
   reference locus plot.
                  A leakage fault may be determined by determining that the test locus plot
20 rotates clockwise and an area of an internal region of the test locus plot increases
   compared to the reference locus plot, wherein the area of the test locus plot
   increases with a larger magnitude than that of a comparable interdisk fault. A
   magnitude of the leakage fault may be determined based on an amount by which the
   test locus plot rotates clockwise and increases in area compared to the reference
25 locus plot.
                  A disk space variation fault may be determined by determining that the test
   locus plot rotates clockwise and a length of a major axis of the test locus plot
   increases compared to the reference locus plot. A magnitude of the leakage fault
   may be determined based on an amount by which the test locus plot rotates
30 clockwise and the major axis increases compared to the reference locus plot.
   9822063_1 (GHMatters) P90871.AU.1

                                                               5
                   Ellipse feature differences that are determined may include an ellipse
   centroid, major and/or minor axes lengths (a and b respectively), an angle between
   the major axis and a horizontal axis (P and an ell ipse eccentricity.
                  The ellipse eccentricity may be calculated from the equation:
 5
                                                     e = (1 - (b/a) 2)112
                  wherein:
                               e is an ellipse eccentricity of a locus plot;
                               b is a major axis length of a locus plot; and
10                             a is a minor axis length of a locus plot.
                   Determined ellipse feature differences between the test locus plot and the
   reference locus plot may be used to categorise the characteristic of the at least one
   winding.
                  An interdisk fault may be determined by determining that the eccentricity (e)
15 and the angle between the major axis and the horizontal axis (Pincreases
   compared to the reference locus plot. A magnitude of the interdisk fault may be
   determined based on an amount by which e and Ef the test locus plot increase
   compared to the reference locus plot.
                  An axial displacement fault may be determined by determining that the
20 eccentricity (e) of the test locus plot increases compared to the reference locus plot,
   but that the angle between the major axis and the horizontal axis (Pof the test locus
   plot undergoes no substantial change compared to the reference locus plot. A
   magnitude of the axial displacement fault may be determined based on an amount
   by which e of the test locus plot increases compared to the reference locus plot.
25                A buckling stress fault may be determined by determining that the
   eccentricity (e) and the angle between the major axis and the horizontal axis (P
   increases compared to the reference locus plot. A magnitude of the buckling stress
   fault may be determined based on an amount by which e and Ef the test locus plot
   increase compared to the reference locus plot.
30                A leakage fault may be determined by determining that the eccentricity (e)
   and the angle between the major axis and the horizontal axis (Pincreases
   compared to the reference locus plot, wherein the increase in e is larger and the
   9822063_1 (GHMatters) P90871.AU.1

                                                      6
   increase in Us smaller than that of a comparable buckling stress fault. A magnitude
   of the buckling stress fault may be determined based on an amount by which e and
   Ef the test locus plot increase compared to the r eference locus plot.
                  A disk space variation fault may be determined by determining that the angle
 5 between the major axis and the horizontal axis (P increases compared to the
   reference locus plot, and wherein the eccentricity (e) of the test locus plot increases
   slightly compared to the reference locus plot. A magnitude of the disk space
   variation fault may be determined based on an amount by which e and Ef the test
   locus plot increase compared to the reference locus plot.
10                The step of categorising the characteristic of the at least one winding may
   comprise comparing the determined visual differences and/or the determined ellipse
   feature differences to predefined values or a range of predefined values so as to
   categorise the characteristic of the at least one winding. The step of categorising the
   characteristic of the at least one winding may be performed in an automated fashion.
15                 In one embodiment, the input current and the voltage difference of the power
   transformer are measured each cycle of the mains frequency. The step of
   determining whether the characteristic of the power transformer differs from that of
   the reference power transformer may be performed based on each set of input
   current and voltage difference as measured each cycle of the mains frequency.
20                 In one embodiment, the method comprises storing information indicative of
   the characteristic as determined over time. The method may further comprise
   analysing the information indicative of the characteristic over time so as to determine
   an appropriate time to perform additional testing of the power transformer, such as
   frequency response analysis testing of the power transformer.
25                 In one embodiment, the method comprises generating an alert if the
   characteristic of the power transformer differs from that of the reference power
   transformer by a predefined amount.
                  The information that is indicative of the at least one property of the reference
   locus plot may be obtained from a reference power transformer, the reference power
30 transformer having a plurality of windings, and having an input current, an input
   voltage, an output current and an output voltage, by:
   9822063_1 (GHMatters) P90871.AU.1

                                                             7
                   measuring the input current and a voltage difference between the input
                              voltage and the output voltage of the reference power transformer; and
                  deriving the information that is indicative of the at least one property of the
                               reference locus plot from the measured input current and voltage
 5                             difference of the reference power transformer.
                  The reference power transformer may be the power transformer or a further
   power transformer. The reference power transformer may be a virtual power
   transformer.
                   In one example, the information that is indicative of the at least one property
10 of the reference locus plot is obtained by:
                  simulating a reference power transformer as an electrical circuit that is
                               substantially equivalent to a power transformer; and
                   measuring an input current and a voltage difference between an input
                              voltage and an output voltage of the substantially equivalent electrical
15                             circuit; and
                  deriving the information that is indicative of the at least one property of the
                               reference locus plot from the measured input current and voltage
                               difference of the substantially equivalent electrical circuit.
                   In accordance with a third aspect of the present invention, there is provided
20 a system for determining a characteristic of a power transformer, the characteristic
   being associated with a mechanical fault or a dielectric fault, the power transformer
   having an input current, an input voltage, an output current and an output voltage,
   the system comprising:
                  data storage arranged to store information that is indicative of at least one
25                             property of a reference locus plot associated with a reference power
                              transformer;
                  a current and voltage measurement system arranged to measure the input
                               current and a voltage difference between the input voltage and the
                               output voltage of the power transformer while the power transformer is
30                             in use within a power distribution network;
                  a test locus plot processing module arranged to derive information that is
                               indicative of at least one property of a test locus plot from the
   9822063_1 (GHMatters) P90871.AU.1

                                                               8
                               measured input current and voltage difference of the power
                              transformer; and
                  a comparison processing module that is arranged to compare, by an image
                               processing code and based on the derived information, ellipse features
 5                             of the test locus plot to ellipse features of a reference locus plot
                               associated with a reference power transformer so as to determine
                               differences therebetween, determined differences being indicative that
                              the characteristic of the power transformer differs from the
                               characteristic of the reference power transformer; and
10                a characteristic categorising module arranged to categorise, by a further
                               image processing code and based on the determined differences, the
                               characteristic of the power transformer and to identify a type of
                               mechanical fault or dielectric fault of the power transformer.
                  The comparison processing module may be further arranged to compare
15 ellipse features of the test locus plot to ellipse features of the reference locus plot so
   as to determine differences therebetween.
                   In accordance with a fourth aspect of the present invention, there is provided
   a system for determining a characteristic of a power transformer, the characteristic
   being associated with a mechanical fault or a dielectric fault, the power transformer
20 having an input current, an input voltage, an output current and an output voltage,
   the system comprising:
                  data storage arranged to store information that is indicative of at least one
                               property of a reference locus plot associated with a reference power
                              transformer;
25                a current and voltage measurement system arranged to measure the input
                               current and a voltage difference between the input voltage and the
                               output voltage of the power transformer while the power transformer is
                               in use within a power distribution network;
                  a test locus plot processing module arranged to derive information that is
30                             indicative of at least one property of a test locus plot from the
                               measured input current and voltage difference of the power
                              transformer; and
   9822063_1 (GHMatters) P90871.AU.1

                                                              9
                  a comparison processing module that is arranged to compare the
                               information that is indicative of the at least one property of the test
                               locus plot to information that is indicative of at least one property of a
                               reference locus plot associated with a reference power transformer so
 5                             as to determine whether a characteristic of the power transformer
                               differs from that of the reference power transformer;
                  wherein the comparison processing module is arranged to compare the test
                               locus plot to the reference locus plot so as to determine visual
                               differences therebetween, and/or to compare ellipse features of the test
10                             locus plot to ellipse features of the reference locus plot so as to
                               determine differences therebetween, and
                  wherein the visual differences include a rotation of the test locus plot
                               compared to the reference locus plot, and/or a change in an area of an
                               internal region of the test locus plot compared to the reference locus
15                             plot.
                  The following introduces features of the system in accordance with the third
   and/or the fourth aspects.
                   In one embodiment, the characteristic is a characteristic of at least one
   winding of the power transformer. The characteristic of the at least one winding of
20 the power transformer may be a characteristic for which a chance of the power
   transformer failing increases if the power transformer is subjected to a fault, for
   example a short-circuit fault, if the characteristic differs from that of the reference
   power transformer.
                   In one embodiment, the power transformer is energized by an alternating
25 current having a mains frequency of an electrical network to which the power
   transformer is, in use, connected.
                   In one embodiment, the system comprises a characteristic categorising
   processing module arranged to categorise the characteristic of the at least one
   winding based on a comparison conducted by the comparison processing module.
30 The characteristic of the at least one winding may be categorised as any one of the
   group comprising: an interdisk fault, an axial displacement fault, a buckling stress
   fault, a leakage (disk to ground) fault, and a disk space variation fault.
   9822063_1 (GHMatters) P90871.AU.1

                                                    10
                  The system may be arranged to determine whether the characteristic of the
   at least one of the windings of the power transformer differs from that of the
   reference power transformer based on any visual differences between the test locus
   plot and the reference locus plot.
 5                 Determined visual differences between the test locus plot and the reference
   locus plot may be used by the system to categorise the characteristic of the at least
   one winding.
                  The system may be arranged to determine an interdisk fault by determining
   that the test locus plot rotates clockwise and an area of an internal region of the test
10 locus plot increases compared to the reference locus plot. A magnitude of the
   interdisk fault may be determined based on an amount by which the test locus plot
   rotates clockwise and increases in area compared to the reference locus plot.
                  The system may be arranged to determine an axial displacement fault by
   determining that an area of an internal region of the test locus plot decreases
15 compared to the reference locus plot, but wherein the test locus plot undergoes no
   substantial rotation compared to the reference locus plot. A magnitude of the axial
   displacement fault may be determined based on an amount by which the area of the
   test locus plot decreases compared to the reference locus plot.
                  The system may be arranged to determine a buckling stress fault by
20 determining that the test locus plot rotates clockwise and an area of an internal
   region of the test locus plot increases compared to the reference locus plot, wherein
   the test locus plot rotates clockwise with a smaller magnitude than that of a
   comparable interdisk fault. A magnitude of the buckling stress fault may be
   determined based on an amount by which the test locus plot rotates clockwise and
25 increases in area compared to the reference locus plot.
                  The system may be arranged to determine a leakage fault by determining
   that the test locus plot rotates clockwise and an area of an internal region of the test
   locus plot increases compared to the reference locus plot, wherein the area of the
   test locus plot increases with a larger magnitude than that of a comparable interdisk
30 fault. A magnitude of the leakage fault may be determined based on an amount by
   which the test locus plot rotates clockwise and increases in area compared to the
   reference locus plot.
   9822063_1 (GHMatters) P90871.AU.1

                                                              11
                  The system may be arranged to determine a disk space variation fault by
   determining that the test locus plot rotates clockwise and a length of a major axis of
   the test locus plot increases compared to the reference locus plot. A magnitude of
   the leakage fault may be determined based on an amount by which the test locus
 5 plot rotates clockwise and the major axis increases compared to the reference locus
   plot.
                  The comparison processing module may be arranged to compare ellipse
   features of the test locus plot to ellipse features of the reference locus plot so as to
   determine differences therebetween, and the system may be arranged to determine
10 whether the characteristic of the at least one of the windings of the power
   transformer differs from that of the reference power transformer based on any
   differences between the ellipse features of the test locus plot and the reference locus
   plot.
                   Ellipse feature differences that are determined may include an ellipse
15 centroid, major and/or minor axes lengths (a and b respectively), an angle between
   the major axis and a horizontal axis ( and an el lipse eccentricity.
                  The ellipse eccentricity may be calculated from the equation:
                                                     e = (1 - (b/a) 2)1 /2
20                wherein:
                               e is an ellipse eccentricity of a locus plot;
                               b is a major axis length of a locus plot; and
                               a is a minor axis length of a locus plot.
                   Determined ellipse feature differences between the test locus plot and the
25 reference locus plot may be used to categorise the characteristic of the at least one
   winding.
                  The system may be arranged to determine an interdisk fault by determining
   that the eccentricity (e) and the angle between the major axis and the horizontal axis
   (Pincreases compared to the reference locus plot. A magnitude of the interdisk fault
30 may be determined based on an amount by which e and Gbf the test locus plot
   increase compared to the reference locus plot.
   9822063_1 (GHMatters) P90871.AU.1

                                                    12
                  The system may be arranged to determine an axial displacement fault by
   determining that the eccentricity (e) of the test locus plot increases compared to the
   reference locus plot, but that the angle between the major axis and the horizontal
   axis (Pof the test locus plot undergoes no substa ntial change compared to the
 5 reference locus plot. A magnitude of the axial displacement fault may be determined
   based on an amount by which e of the test locus plot increases compared to the
   reference locus plot.
                  The system may be arranged to determine a buckling stress fault by
   determining that the eccentricity (e) and the angle between the major axis and the
10 horizontal axis (Pincreases compared to the refer ence locus plot. A magnitude of
   the buckling stress fault may be determined based on an amount by which e and            e
   of the test locus plot increase compared to the reference locus plot.
                  The system may be arranged to determine a leakage fault by determining
   that the eccentricity (e) and the angle between the major axis and the horizontal axis
15 (Pincreases compared to the reference locus plot, wherein the increase in e is
   larger and the increase in Us smaller than that o f a comparable buckling stress
   fault. A magnitude of the buckling stress fault may be determined based on an
   amount by which e and Ef the test locus plot incr ease compared to the reference
   locus plot.
20                The system may be arranged to determine a disk space variation fault by
   determining that the angle between the major axis and the horizontal axis (P
   increases compared to the reference locus plot, and wherein the eccentricity (e) of
   the test locus plot increases slightly compared to the reference locus plot. A
   magnitude of the disk space variation fault may be determined based on an amount
25 by which e and Ef the test locus plot increase co mpared to the reference locus plot.
                  The characteristic categorising processing module may be arranged to
   compare the determined visual differences and/or the determined ellipse feature
   differences to predefined values or a range of predefined values so as to categorise
   the characteristic of the at least one winding.
30                 In one embodiment, the input current and the voltage difference of the power
   transformer are measured each cycle of the mains frequency. The system may be
   arranged to determine whether the characteristic of the at least one winding of the
   9822063_1 (GHMatters) P90871.AU.1

                                                            13
   power transformer differs from that of the reference power transformer based on
   each set of input current and voltage difference as measured each cycle of the
   mains frequency.
                   In one embodiment, the system is arranged to store information indicative of
 5 the characteristic as determined over time in the data storage. The system may
   further be arranged to analyse the information indicative of the characteristic over
   time so as to determine an appropriate time to perform additional testing of the
   power transformer, such as frequency response analysis testing of the power
   transformer.
10                 In one embodiment, the system is arranged to generate an alert if the
   characteristic of the at least one winding of the power transformer differs from that of
   the reference power transformer by a predefined amount.
                  The information that is indicative of the at least one property of the reference
   locus plot may be obtained from a reference power transformer, the reference power
15 transformer having a plurality of windings, and having an input current, an input
   voltage, an output current and an output voltage, by:
                   measuring the input current and a voltage difference between the input
                              voltage and the output voltage of the reference power transformer; and
                  deriving the information that is indicative of the at least one property of the
20                             reference locus plot from the measured input current and voltage
                               difference of the reference power transformer.
                  The reference power transformer may be the power transformer or a further
   power transformer. The reference power transformer may be a virtual power
   transformer.
25                 In one example, the information that is indicative of the at least one property
   of the reference locus plot is obtained by:
                  simulating a reference power transformer as an electrical circuit that is
                               substantially equivalent to a power transformer; and
                   measuring an input current and a voltage difference between an input
30                            voltage and an output voltage of the substantially equivalent electrical
                               circuit; and
   9822063_1 (GHMatters) P90871.AU.1

                                                             14
                  deriving the information that is indicative of the at least one property of the
                               reference locus plot from the measured input current and voltage
                               difference of the substantially equivalent electrical circuit.
                   In accordance with a fifth aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
 5 computer program arranged when loaded into a computing device to instruct the
   computing device to operate in accordance with the method of the first or the second
   aspects.
                   In accordance with a sixth aspect of the present invention, there is provided
   a computer readable medium having a computer readable program code embodied
10 therein for causing a computing device to operate in accordance with the method of
   the first or the second aspects.
                   In accordance with a seventh aspect of the present invention, there is
   provided a data signal having a computer readable program code embodied therein
   to cause a computing device to operate in accordance with the method of the first or
15 the second aspects.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
                   In order that the present invention may be more clearly ascertained,
   embodiments of the present invention will now be described, by way of example
20 only, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
                   Figure 1 is a flow diagram of a method of determining a characteristic of a
   power transformer in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
                   Figure 2a is a per-unit equivalent circuit of a power transformer of Figure 1;
                   Figure 2b is a phasor diagram of the per-unit equivalent circuit of Figure 2a;
25                 Figure 3 is a graphical representation of construction of a locus plot of a
   power transformer;
                   Figure 4 is a locus plot of a power transformer illustrating an impact of a load
   power factor on the locus plot;
                   Figure 5 is a transformer distributed parameter model used to model a power
30 transformer;
                   Figure 6 is a locus plot of a power transformer illustrating an impact of a load
   level on the locus plot;
   9822063_1 (GHMatters) P90871.AU.1

                                                        15
                   Figure 7 is a locus plot of a healthy power transformer;
                   Figure 8 is a locus plot illustrating an interdisk fault compared to a healthy
   power transformer;
                   Figure 9 is a locus plot illustrating an interdisk fault compared to a healthy
 5 power transformer;
                   Figure 10 is a locus plot illustrating an axial displacement fault compared to
   a healthy power transformer;
                   Figure 11 is a locus plot illustrating a forced buckling fault compared to a
   healthy power transformer;
10                 Figure 12 is a locus plot illustrating a disk-to-ground fault compared to a
   healthy power transformer;
                   Figure 13 is a locus plot illustrating disk space variation fault compared to a
   healthy power transformer;
                   Figure 14 is a locus plot illustrating various faults compared to a healthy
15 power transformer;
                   Figure 15 is a locus plot illustrating various faults on five disks of a power
   transformer compared to a healthy power transformer;
                   Figure 16 is a visual comparison of two identical power transformer loci;
                   Figure 17 is a visual comparison of a faulty power transformer locus and a
20 healthy power transformer locus;
                   Figure 18 is a locus plot of a power transformer with a six-disk axial
   displacement fault compared to a locus plot of a healthy power transformer;
                   Figure 19 is a locus plot of a power transformer with a three-disk leakage
   fault compared to a locus plot of a healthy power transformer;
25                 Figure 20 is a locus plot of a power transformer with a one-disk space
   variation fault compared to a locus plot of a healthy power transformer;
                   Figure 21 is a locus plot of a power transformer with various practical turn-to
   turn faults compared to a locus plot of a healthy power transformer;
                   Figure 22 is a visual comparison of a locus of a power transformer having a
30 practical fault and a healthy power transformer locus; and
   9822063_1 (GHMatters) P90871.AU.1

                                                       16
                   Figure 23 is a schematic diagram of a system for determining a
   characteristic of a power transformer in accordance with an embodiment of the
   present invention.
 5 Description of an Embodiment of the Invention
                   Embodiments of the present invention relate to a method of detecting a
   characteristic of a power transformer and a system therefor. In general, the method
   and the system are directed to measuring an input current and a difference between
   an input voltage and an output voltage of a power transformer, and using this
10 information to generate a test locus plot of the power transformer.
                  The test locus plot, or at least one feature thereof, is then compared to a
   reference locus plot, or at least one feature thereof, so as to determine any
   differences therebetween. Identified differences between the test locus plot and the
   reference locus plot, such as a difference in area, or a rotation of the test locus plot
15 compared to the reference locus plot, or a difference in elliptical features, can be
   used to identify a type of internal mechanical fault of the power transformer.
                   In this way, internal mechanical faults that reduce a chance of the power
   transformer surviving a fault such as a short-circuit fault can be identified without
   taking the power transformer offline for other types of testing, such as frequency
20 response analysis (FRA) testing.
                  An example method 100 is illustrated in Figure 1. In a first step 102, an input
   current and a voltage difference between an input voltage and an output voltage of a
   power transformer are measured while the power transformer is in use within a
   power distribution network. As the power transformer is in operation, the power
25 transformer is energized by an alternating current having a mains frequency of an
   electrical network to which the power transformer is connected to.
                   In a second step 104, information that is indicative of at least one property of
   a test locus plot is derived from the measured input current and voltage difference of
   the power transformer.
30                 In a third step 106, the information that is indicative of the at least one
   property of the test locus plot is compared to information that is indicative of at least
   one property of a reference locus plot associated with a reference power transformer
   9822063_1 (GHMatters) P90871.AU.1

                                                              17
   so as to determine whether a characteristic of the power transformer differs from that
   of the reference power transformer.
                  The reference power transformer may be the same power transformer that is
   being measured, wherein the reference locus plot was obtained at an earlier point in
 5 time, such as when the power transformer was first commissioned. Alternatively, the
   reference power transformer may be a power transformer that has substantially the
   same design characteristics as the power transformer that is being measured, or the
   reference transformer may be a virtual transformer that is simulated so as to have an
   electrical circuit that is substantially equivalent to the power transformer.
10                Typically, the characteristic of the at least one winding of the power
   transformer is a characteristic for which a chance of the power transformer failing
   increases if the power transformer is subjected to a fault, for example a short-circuit
   fault, if the characteristic differs from that of the reference power transformer.
   Example characteristics include: an interdisk fault, an axial displacement fault, a
15 buckling stress fault, a leakage (disk to ground) fault, and a disk space variation
   fault.
                  An example of locus plot construction will now be described.
                   In this example, the method 100 comprises constructing a locus diagram
   relating the power transformer input current on the x axis and the difference between
20 the input and output voltages of a particular phase on the y axis. The relationship
   relating the aforementioned parameters can be derived using a single-phase
   transformer equivalent circuit 200 and its phasor diagram 202 as shown in Figure 2.
                   Let:
                                      v 2 (t) = Vm2 sin(Wl)                      (1)
                                      vi(t) = V 1 sin(Wt + 6)                    (2)
                                            x =ii(t) = ImI sin(wt - <p).         (3)
25                 For simplicity, assume Vm1 =          Vm2 = Vm.
                                     Y V      - V2 = V, {sin(  t + 6) - sin(wt)}  (4)
                                           y= 2V,, cos wt +     ) -cos(6).        (5)
                  The Cartesian formula relating x and y can be obtained from the parametric
   equations (3) and (5) by eliminating to
   9822063_1 (GHMatters) P90871.AU.1

                                                                   18
                   From equations (3) and (5):
                                       wt = sin      ()       +    = cos-      2vY&)s
                                   -> {cos -- 2      cos6       n                   co
                                  7- tVQ  {coS
                                      sncoIs-      yVOO o           sin                2
                                         -Scocos--      ySin                    sin       ;
                                                      2
                                                        - 2
                                                  2(2Vtcoso)      I     -           y        2
                                                                                            Trni
                                            2Vmcas 6                T          2Vm cost
                                   = sin      + C
                                                                             2
                                  -            cos 6)2       2} -4                           X
                                    =2VT,,,, cos 6Bsin   ( Ci+ )      + xy.                    (6)
 5                Squaring both sides and rearranging the equation gives:
                                     (2Vcos6)2,2+4Vilmicos 6 sin            P+    xy+1%y
                                             .2co          w+2            (2Imi        6)2.      (7)
                  Assume the coefficients of (7) are:
                                       A = (2V,COS 6)2;
                                       B -4VLm1 cos 6 sin         +
                                       C -4I ;
                                       a = (2Vmmi cos &sin           +    )     (2Vmim.csb) 2
10
                  The quadratic equation (7) represents:
   9822063_1 (GHMatters) P90871.AU.1

                                                                19
                               an ellipse if B2 - 4AC < 0;
                               a parabola if B2 - 4AC = 0; and
                               a hyperbola if B2 - 4AC > 0.
                                    B 2 - 40AC =I1V        {cos2S sinsQ +           -cos 8
                                                =16141~i cos2 6    sina     +     -   1
                                                   - 161, Vosz 8 - cosz(8
                   Equation (8) is always a negative term regardless of the values of In, Vm, D
   and (pHence, the Cartesian relationship between (v                       1- v2 ) and i1 represents an
   ellipse. The approach is shown in a graph 300 in Figure 3 wherein the instantaneous
io values of N (v                 1-   v2 ) and i1 are measured at a particular time to calculate the
   corresponding point on the N - 11 locus 302. The graph 300 in Figure 3 is drawn at
   a 0.8 lagging power factor. As the phase shift between V1 and V2 is normally small,
   the impact of the angle EDn the locus is insignifican t and can be neglected. The
   phase shift between 11 and V2 (pis almost equal to the load impedance phase ang le
15 since the phase shift between 11 and                   12 is negligible. To investigate the impact of the
   load (ZL) power factor on the proposed locus, the N - 11locus is constructed for a
    15-kVA, 2300/230-V single-phase transformer with the following equivalent circuit
   parameters referred to the low-voltage side:
    20                          14,-       4.459,; Xeg = 6.45 Q; Xm, = 11 kQD Re = 105 kM.
                  Three operating conditions (0.8 lagging power factor, unity power factor, and
   0.8 leading power factor) with constant impedance magnitude were tested, and the
   corresponding N - 11locus for each case was constructed. The three loci, locus 402
25 corresponding to 0.8 lagging power factor, locus 404 corresponding to unity power
   factor, and locus 406 corresponding to 0.8 leading power factor, were found to be
   identical as shown in the graph 400 of Figure 4. Hence, the load power factor has no
   impact on the proposed locus.
   9822063_1 (GHMatters) P90871.AU.1

                                                      20
                  An example wherein the power transformer is modelled as an equivalent
   electrical circuit will now be described.
                  The practical application of any diagnostic technique to detect mechanical
   damage in a transformer depends on its sensitivity to any change in the distributed
 5 inductances and capacitances. The transformer can be modeled with sufficient
   accuracy as a distributed analog R-L-C circuit. The effect of the iron core has a
   minimal role to play in an impulse stressed winding. This agrees well with the fact
   that in a rapid transient condition, the flux lines tend to centre around the conductors
   rather than penetrating the iron core and for high-frequency components of surges,
10 the iron core acts effectively as an earthed boundary.
                  Some studies have neglected the effect of distributed shunt conductance
   which is considered a valid assumption for impulse voltage distribution analysis in
   the case of a faultless transformer, but may not be adequate in the case of fault
   diagnosis. Neglecting shunt conductance in the equivalent circuit will eliminate the
15 study of leakage fault inside a transformer which could have been caused by several
   reasons, such as insulation damage, ground shield, or hot spots. The equivalent
   model (neglecting shunt conductance) could be ideal for verifying the measured
   transfer function for interdisk, coil short circuit, and winding displacements. Hence,
   the model needs some modifications to incorporate the study of leakage faults and
20 partial discharges in the winding. These shortcomings of the computational model
   can be overcome if parameters which would allow for simulation of ground leakage
   and voids in the insulation are taken into consideration. The distributed transformer
   model equivalent circuit 500 shown in Figure 5 is proposed in this example.
                   In this model, a single transformer winding is divided into a cascaded pi
25 network comprising self/mutual inductances, resistance, series/shunt capacitances,
   and shunt dielectric conductance. For simplicity, it is assumed that the mutual
   inductances are lumped into series inductances; this assumption is widely used in
   the literature. The model parameters were calculated based on practical FRA
   measurements performed on the three-phase low-voltage windings of a 250-MVA,
30 345/16-kV, 102-disk transformer.
                   Use of the distributed parameter model for the power transformer will allow
   simulating different types of faults on one-hundred and two individual internal disks
   9822063_1 (GHMatters) P90871.AU.1

                                                     21
   used in this model. The parameters of the distributed model 500 shown in Figure 5
   can also be determined from the geometrical dimensions of the transformer which
   makes the model suitable for different fault studies. There is a direct relationship
   between the geometric configuration of the winding and core within a transformer
 5 and the distributed parameters of the transformer. Table I outlines a number of
   physical parameters of the transformer distributed network and the types of faults
   these are associated with.
                      Physical Parameter                  Type of Fault
                           Inductance     Disk deformation, local breakdown, winding
                                          short circuits.
                                          Disk movements, buckling due to large
                       Shunt Capacitance  mechanical forces, moisture ingress, loss of
                                          clamping pressure.
                       Series Capacitance Ageing of insulation, disk space variation.
                            Resistance    Shorted or broken disk, partial discharge.
10       TABLE 1: TRANSFORMER ELECTRICAL PARAMETERS AND FAULT-TYPE
                                            RELATIONSHIP
                The equivalent model 500 was simulated and used to obtain a locus plot
   under different load conditions, as described below, to provide a reference locus
is plot, and information that is indicative of the reference locus plot.
                One-hundred and two disks (two turns per disk) of the model shown in
   Figure 5 were simulated using PSIM software. The model was energized by an ac,
   50-Hz voltage source of low amplitude and the instantaneous values of v1 , v2, and i1
   were recorded at a time step of 10 ps. In this way, a AV - 11 locus of a healthy
20 transformer can be constructed and is considered as a reference or fingerprint of this
   transformer. When a transformer experiences an event that results in deformation of
   the windings, the transformer impedance will vary and this alters the transformer
   A/ - 11locus diagram.
                As has been shown in Figure 4, the load power factor with constant
25 impedance magnitude does not have any impact on the locus plot. Different load
   levels at constant power factor were simulated to investigate the effect of load
   magnitude variation on the proposed locus. Figure 6 shows a graph 600 of locus
   9aB221B1(GMatersa)P  71AJ1

                                                     22
   plots for different load levels, including a locus 602 corresponding to a load level of
   10 Q a locus 604 corresponding to a load level of 20 Q a locus 606 corresponding
   to a load level of 200 Q a locus 608 corresponding to a load level of 400 Q and a
   locus 610 corresponding to a load level of 1000 )
 5                As shown in the graph 600 of Figure 6, increasing the load level from 10 to
   20 Q(100% increment) does not have any impact on the proposed locus. The effect
   of load magnitude on the proposed locus will take place when there is a significant
   change in load level as can be seen when the load magnitude is increased to 200 0
   The effect of this significant increment in load magnitude on reducing the entire area
10 of the N - 1 locus is clearly shown in Figure 6. However, all loci will have the same
   common major axis and same centroid. In the model under study, a 10/36.87' Qis
   simulated as the load impedance.
                   Figure 7 is a graph 700 showing a N - 1 1locus 702 of a healthy
   transformer. The locus 702 is considered to be that of a healthy transformer as no
15 changes were made to the model 500 parameters. Different mechanical faults were
   then simulated on the model 500 and the corresponding N - 1 loci were plotted and
   compared with the healthy locus 702 of Figure 7, as discussed in more detail later.
   The diagnosis of the problem is achieved by comparing the healthy transformer
   fingerprint 702 and the faulty one to identify any differences and, hence, to
20 determine a possible fault type.
                   In this example, a Matlab code was developed and used to measure some
   unique features of the N - 1 1locus such as the semimajor and semi-minor axes
   lengths and the angle between the major axis and the horizontal axis. These
   parameters are shown in the locus 702 of Figure 7 as a, b, and Orespectively.
25                To identify the features of winding deformation and effect of model
   parameters on the N - 1 1locus, faults such as interdisk fault, axial displacement,
   leakage (disk to ground fault), and buckling stress of inner winding were simulated
   and compared with the healthy locus.
30 A. Interdisk Fault
                  The interdisk fault is considered as the most common fault of power
   transformers. Studies show that about 80% of transformer breakdowns are attributed
   9822063_1 (GHMatters) P90871.AU.1

                                                     23
   to interdisk fault. In this example, different numbers of disks have been short
   circuited to find their impact on the N - I 1 locus. To show the accuracy of the model
   to detect this fault, 5% of the coils have been short-circuited and the proposed locus
   802 is compared to a healthy locus 804 as shown in the graph 800 of Figure 8,
 5 which clearly shows the difference between the two loci.
                  The graph 900 of Figure 9 shows locus 902 for 30% fault disks and locus
   904 for 60% faulty disks compared to healthy locus 906. It can be observed from
   Figures 8 and 9 that, as the number of faulty disks increase, the locus rotates further
   in the clockwise direction and its entire area increases.
10
   B. Axial Displacement
                  An axial displacement fault occurs due to a magnetic imbalance between the
   low- and high-voltage windings due to short-circuit currents. The axial displacement
   between the magnetic centres of the windings will result in unbalanced magnetic
15 force components in each half of the winding which leads to a change in its relative
   position. Leaving this fault unattended can cause winding collapse or failure of the
   end-supporting structure due to its progressive nature. This type of fault can be
   simulated by changing the mutual and self inductances of particular disks. The
   change in capacitance can be neglected. In this example, axial displacement is
20 modelled by a 10% decrease in the inductance. Graph 1000 of Figure 10 shows the
   effect of axial displacement of 30% and 60% disks on the N - I 1locus, as can be
   seen from locus 1002 which corresponds to axial displacement of 30% disks, locus
   1004 which corresponds to axial displacement of 60% disks, and locus 1006 of a
   healthy transformer.
25                 Figure 10 shows that axial displacement will decrease the area of the faulty
   locus compared with the healthy one. Increasing the number of faulty disks will
   further decrease the locus area but there is no rotation in the locus major axis.
   C. Buckling Stress
30                 Leakage flux and current in the windings causes radial force on windings.
   This force pulls the inner windings close to the core (buckling stress), while pushing
   the outer winding toward the limb (tensile stress). Buckling stress can be simulated
   9822063_1 (GHMatters) P90871.AU.1

                                                      24
   in the distributed model by reducing the interwinding capacitance and the mutual
   inductance between the windings at the position of deformation. Furthermore, the
   shunt capacitance is increased due to the reduction of the distance between the
   winding and the core.
 5                 In this example, forced buckling is modelled by increasing the shunt
   capacitance by 10%, and decreasing the inductance and series capacitance by 10%.
   The effect of this fault on the proposed locus is shown in graph 1100 of Figure 11. In
   this example, locus 1102 corresponds to forced buckling of 30% disks, locus 1004
   corresponds to axial displacement of 60% disks, and locus 1006 corresponds to a
10 healthy transformer. Unlike the axial displacement effect, buckling stress increases
   the locus area, and the major axis will slightly rotate in the clockwise direction as the
   number of faulty disks increases. The slight locus rotation discriminates this type of
   fault from the interdisk fault.
15 D. Leakage (Disk to Ground) Fault
                   Insulation damage, ground shield damage, abrasion, high moisture content
   in the winding, hotspot and aging insulation, which reduces its dielectric strength, are
   the main reasons for leakage fault inside a transformer. This type of fault can be
   simulated by increasing the shunt conductance and shunt admittance. Graph 1200
20 of Figure 12 shows the effect of increasing the shunt admittance and shunt
   conductance by 70% on the proposed locus. Graph 1200 shows locus 1202 which
   corresponds to a disk-to-ground fault of 30% disks, locus 1204 which corresponds to
   a disk-to-ground fault of 60% disks, and locus 1206 which corresponds to a healthy
   transformer. As can be seen in Figure 12, the locus area is increasing and the major
25 axis is rotating in a clockwise direction, similar to the case of interdisk fault.
   However, the locus area in the case of interdisk fault is larger than the corresponding
   locus in the case of a leakage fault for the same number of faulty disks.
   E. Disk Space Variation
30                 Mechanical displacements of power transformer windings can occur due to
   short-circuit currents. Disk-space variation is one of the frequently occurring
   mechanical faults in power transformers where the geometry of transformer windings
   9822063_1 (GHMatters) P90871.AU.1

                                                     25
   will be altered. For such faults, the effect of inductance can be neglected with
   respect to series capacitance at the location of the fault. Due to the fact that at the
   low-frequency range the transformer winding response is dominated by inductance
   and the effect of the series capacitor is almost negligible, unless there is a significant
 5 disk space variation, this type of fault is more difficult to detect using this technique.
   In the example, a significant disk space variation fault is simulated by increasing the
   series capacitor by 70%. The effect of such fault on the proposed locus is shown in
   graph 1300 of Figure 13. In this example, locus 1302 corresponds to disk space
   variation of 30% disks, locus 1304 corresponds to disk space variation of 60% disks,
10 and locus 1306 corresponds to a healthy transformer. By increasing the number of
   faulty disks, the locus is rotating in the clockwise direction and the length of the
   major axes is significantly increasing.
                   Differences between the test locus plots, as simulated above, and the
   reference locus plot can be determined so as to determine the type of fault. There
15 are a number of different techniques that can be used to determine such difference,
   as described in greater detail below.
   A. Visual Discrimination
                   Discrimination between different types of faults can be visibly observed from
20 the N - 11locus area and major axis rotation. To show this, different types of faults
   discussed before are simulated on 80% of the overall disks of the transformer model,
   and the N - I 1 loci for all of them with respect to the healthy locus are compared as
   shown in graph 1400 of Figure 14. Graph 1400 shows locus 1402 corresponding to a
   healthy transformer, locus 1404 corresponding to an interdisk fault, locus 1406
25 corresponding to an axial displacement fault, locus 1408 corresponding to a forced
   buckling fault, locus 1410 corresponding to a leakage fault, and locus 1412
   corresponding to a disk displacement fault.
                   Figure 14 shows that the locus area is increasing in all faulty cases with
   respect to the area of the healthy locus except in the case of axial displacement
30 where the area is decreased. The locus major axis in the case of axial displacement
   is aligning with the healthy major axis. Interdisk fault has a significant increase in the
   locus area and its major axis rotates significantly in the clockwise direction. Locus
   9822063_1 (GHMatters) P90871.AU.1

                                                              26
   area increases in case of forced buckling and leakage fault and both loci rotate in the
   clockwise direction with respect to the healthy locus. However, the angle of rotation
   in case of leakage fault is slightly higher. The disk displacement major axis length
   significantly increases and rotates in the clockwise direction.
 5                Table 11summarizes the effect of studied faults on the locus area and locus
   major axis rotation in relation to the healthy locus for visual discrimination.
                                     Fault Type           Area                 Rotation
                                     Inter disk           Significant increase Large
                                     disk space variation Increase             Very large
                                     Leakage Fault        Increase             Large
                                     Forced buckling      Increase             Slight
                                     Axial displacement   Decrease             None
             TABLE II: EFFECT OF FAULTS ON LOCUS AREA AND AXIS ROTATION
10
                  To show the accuracy of the proposed technique to detect faults simulated in
   a small number of disks, all types of faults are simulated in five disks (4.9%) of the
   overall disks, and the corresponding N - 11 loci are plotted as shown in graph 1500
   of Figure 15. Graph 1500 shows locus 1502 corresponding to a healthy transformer,
15 locus 1504 corresponding to an interdisk fault, locus 1506 corresponding to an axial
   displacement fault, locus 1508 corresponding to a forced buckling fault, locus 1510
   corresponding to a leakage fault, and locus 1512 corresponding to a disk
   displacement fault.
                  The same trend can be observed in the impact of each fault on the locus as
20 discussed before. However, it is more difficult to visually discriminate different types
   of faults in this case compared to the case of a higher number of faulty disks as
   illustrated previously with respect to Figure 14. A software model is developed to
   automate the discrimination process and to identify the fault type based on some
   features of the ellipse as will be discussed in a later section.
25
   B. Discrimination Using Ellipse Features
                  As has been shown in the mathematical proof and simulation results earlier,
   the N - 1 1 locus is always representing an ellipse. Some unique features of the
   ellipse can be used to compare different loci and to identify the type of fault within
   9822063_1 (GHMatters) P90871.AU.1

                                                               27
     the power transformer. These features include ellipse centroid, the major and minor
     axes lengths (a and b, respectively), the angle between the major axis, and the
     horizontal axis (P A Matlab code has been developed                       and is used to measure these
     parameters and to calculate an ellipse eccentricity. The ellipse eccentricity is used to
   5 describe the ellipse general proportion and is given by:
                                                   u=;   ( b)(9
                    To identify the type of fault based on eccentricity, angle of rotation, major
ic   axis length, and minor-axis length, each fault has been simulated on a different
     number of disks starting from five disks to 100 disks, and these parameters have
     been calculated for each fault using the developed software as shown in Table Ill.
                                       T-T           Aal            Forced         Leakage         Disk space
           fauly                   SC fault      digcement          bcklimg          fault          variation
            disks               e            0     e      a        e        B      e        0       e        a
                5             0.05          2.15 0.17     0      0.60     1.01   0.60     105     0.02     2.23
              10              0.24          7.26 020      0      0.64     1.56   0.63     116     02       8.26
              15              037           812  021      0      0-65     171    065      1.60    003      938
                 0               4          9.   01       0      07       1                 1       04         1
              25              0.47         10-05 0.29     0      0.68     2.01   0.75     L76     0.06 1018
              30              0.55         11.15 035      0      0.69     2.92   0-9      1.90    0.06     11.71
              35              LO5          12.28 0.38     0       0.7     3.19   0.11     2.14    0.09    1260
              40                 11        13.40 0.40     0      0.71     4.69   0-15     2.52    012     13,53
              45              131          13.75 0.42     0      0.73     4.97   0.88     2.74    0.16 1425
              50              L69          14.21 0,46     0      0.73     5.69   097      2.95    018     14.81
              55              3-13         14-24 0-47     0      0.75     6.15   1-03     3.11    019      15.94
              60              3A3          15.43 0.52     0      0.81     6.43   112      3.56    0.21    16.36
              65              4-00         15_84 0_56     0      083      7 27   1_33     358     0_23    16-48
              70              421          16.50 0.57     0      0.-5     7.97   137      3.72    0-25    17.18
              75              4-54         1631  058      0      0.7       .47   168      3-98    0.26 17.82
              80               4.6         17.05 0.59     0      0.89     8.82   1.68     4.54    0.27    18.09
              85               5.2         1885  0.61     0      0.91     9.22   1-0      434     0.29    1913
              90               56          19.86 0-63     0      0-66     9.53   190      4.87    032     19 95
              95               5-7         20.89 0.63     0      0.64    10.33  2.01      5.07    0.32    20.93
             10               6-61         21_10 0.65   T                11.05
                                                                           1-0    20        .5141 0A      21.55
is       TABLE Ill: EFFECT OF DIFFERENT FAULTS ON LOCUS ECCENTRICITY AND
                                                      AXIS ROTATION
     9822063_1 (GHMatters) P90871.AU.1

                                                           28
                  Table III shows the percentage difference in eccentricity (e) and the angle of
   rotation of the major axis (Pfor different types of faults with respect to the healthy
   locus.
                  The interdisk fault has a significant increase in the eccentricity and angle of
 5 rotation as the number of faulty disks increases. Axial displacement does not
   introduce any effect on the axis rotation, and the value of eccentricity slightly
   increases as the number of faulty disks increase. The eccentricity in forced buckling
   and leakage faults slightly increases with the increase of faulty disks; the eccentricity
   increment is more noticeable in case of a leakage fault. On the other hand, the
10 increase in the angle of rotation with the increase of faulty disks is more significant in
   case of forced buckling than the leakage fault especially for a large number of faulty
   disks. The disk space variation has a minor impact on the eccentricity and a
   significant impact on the angle when the number of faulty disks is increased. Based
   on the range of the percentage differences of these parameters for each fault, the
15 Matlab code is modified to identify the type of fault within the transformer. Five case
   studies are used to validate the developed approach as follows:
   Case 1)                    Two identical loci are compared using the developed software. The
   developed software converts the color of the two loci into white with a black
20 background to perform the calculations of ellipse centroid, major and minor axes
   lengths, eccentricity, and the angle between the major axis and the horizontal axis.
   The software produces the two loci 1602, 1604 shown in Figure 16 and shows that
   there is no difference in eccentricity and angle of rotation of the two loci and, hence,
   the software recommends a healthy transformer for this case.
25
   Case 2)                     Forced buckling stress is simulated in 44 disks, and the faulty locus
   1702 is compared with the healthy locus 1704 using the developed software (see
   Figure 17). The software gives a 0.72% difference in eccentricity and 4.95%
   difference in the angle and recommends a forced buckling fault.
30
   Case 3)                    An axial displacement fault simulated in six disks and the faulty locus
   1802 and the healthy locus 1804 shown in the graph 1800 of Figure 18 are
   9822063_1 (GHMatters) P90871.AU.1

                                                           29
   compared using the developed software. The software gives a 0.19% difference in
   eccentricity and 0% difference in the angle and recommends an axial displacement
   fault.
 5 Case 4)                    A leakage fault is simulated in three disks, and the faulty locus 1902
   and the healthy locus 1904 shown in graph 1900 of Figure 19 are compared using
   the developed software. The software gives a 0.40% difference in eccentricity and a
   0.61% difference in the angle and recommends a forced buckling fault.
10 Case 5)                    A disk space variation simulated in 1 disk and the faulty locus 2002 and
   the healthy locus 2004 shown in graph 2000 of Figure 20 are compared using the
   developed software. The software gives a 0.005% difference in eccentricity and
   1.6% difference in the angle and recommends a disk space variation.
15 Case 6)                     Laboratory experimental testing was performed on a 0.5-kVA, 150/170
   V single-phase transformer. The transformer is loaded by a 54 Oresistor, and a turn
   turn short circuit is created on 6% and 15% of the low-voltage winding. The N - 11
   locus of the transformer is constructed using a digital oscilloscope. A healthy locus
   2102, a faulty locus 2104 corresponding to the turn-turn short circuit on 6% of the
20 low-voltage winding, and a faulty locus 2106 corresponding to the turn-turn short
   circuit on 15% of the low-voltage winding are compared as shown in graph 2100 of
   Figure 21 which shows a significant change in the locus area as the number of faulty
   turns increases. The healthy and 6% short-circuit turns loci were fed to the
   developed software, the percentage difference in eccentricity calculated by the
25 software is 0.21% and the percentage difference in the angle of rotation calculated
   by the software is 11.9%; these differences are clearly visible in the two loci, the
   faulty locus 2202 and the healthy locus 2204, shown in Figure 22 that are generated
   by the developed software. The significant difference in the angle of rotation aligns
   well with the range of the turn-to-turn short-circuit case shown in Table III.
30
                   In summary, the above examples illustrate a method 100 to identify
   mechanical faults within a power transformer. In one embodiment, the method 100
   9822063_1 (GHMatters) P90871.AU.1

                                                   30
   comprises constructing a locus diagram of the input and output voltage difference of
   a particular transformer winding on the axis and the winding input current on the
   axis. This locus is considered as the fingerprint of the transformer. Any mechanical
   fault will alter this locus in a unique way and, hence, fault detection as well as fault
 5 type can be identified.
                  The method 100 also comprises a digital image pro cessing technique based
   on measuring and comparing some features of the loci to identify the possible fault
   type. These features include image centroid, the major and minor axes lengths,
   eccentricity, and the angle of rotation. Simulation results show that each fault has a
10 unique impact on these parameters.
                  The disk-space variation has the lowest impact on eccentricity and largest
   impact on the angle of rotation. The axial displacement does not have any impact on
   the angle of rotation and has a minor impact on eccentricity. The interdisk fault has a
   significant impact on angle of rotation and eccentricity while the leakage fault has a
15 moderate impact on both parameters. Forced buckling has a moderate impact on the
   angle while its impact on the eccentricity is minor.
                  The method 100 may utilise existing metering devices attached with the
   power transformer, and the method 100 can be implemented online as it is
   performed at the mains frequency. A test locus can be plotted every cycle (20 ms
20 based on a 50-Hz power network), and the test locus can be compared with a
   previous locus using the developed image-processing code to immediately identify
   any changes. If any changes are identified, the method 100 can comprise a step of
   generating an early warning signal.
                  An example system 2300 will now be described with reference to Figure 23.
25 In this example, the system 2300 comprises data storage 2302 that is arranged to
   store information that is indicative of at least one property of a reference locus plot
   associated with a reference power transformer. The system 2300 also comprises a
   current and voltage measurement system 2304 arranged to measure an input
   current and a voltage difference between an input voltage and an output voltage of a
30 power transformer 2306 while the power transformer is in operation.
                  The system 2300 also comprises a processor 2308 having a test locus plot
   processing module 2310 arranged to derive information that is indicative of at least
   9822063_1 (GHMatters) P90871.AU.1

                                                   31
   one property of a test locus plot from the measured input current and voltage
   difference of the power transformer. The processor 2308 also comprises a
   comparison processing module 2312 that is arranged to compare the information
   that is indicative of the at least one property of the test locus plot to information that
 5 is indicative of at least one property of a reference locus plot associated with a
   reference power transformer so as to determine whether a characteristic of at least
   one winding of the power transformer differs from that of the reference power
   transformer.
                  The processor 2308 of the system 2300 also comprises a characteristic
10 categorising processing module 2314 arranged to categorise the characteristic of the
   at least one winding based on the comparing step. In this example, the characteristic
   processing module 2314 is arranged to categorise the characteristic of the at least
   one winding as any one of the group comprising: an interdisk fault, an axial
   displacement fault, a buckling stress fault, a leakage (disk to ground) fault, and a
15 disk space variation fault. Such categorisation may be conducted in accordance with
   steps of the method 100.
                   Further, the comparison processing module 2314 is arranged to compare
   the test locus plot to the reference locus plot so as to determine visual differences
   therebetween, and the system 2300 is arranged to determine whether the
20 characteristic of the at least one of the windings of the power transformer differs from
   that of the reference power transformer based on any visual differences between the
   test locus plot and the reference locus plot.
                  The processor 2308 and the data storage 2302 elements of the system 2300
   may be components of a computer system, such as a desktop computing device or a
25 server, and the current and voltage measurement system 2304 may comprise
   existing metering devices connected to the power transformer 2306. The computer
   system may be arranged to interface with the current and voltage measurement
   system 2304, such as via a network connection or similar, and be arranged to
   receive measurements taken by the current and voltage measurement system 2304
30 via the network. In one embodiment, the system 2300 is arranged to generate an
   alert if the system 2300 determines that the characteristic of the at least one winding
   of the power transformer differs from that of the reference power transformer by a
   9822063_1 (GHMatters) P90871.AU.1

                                                        32
   predefined amount. The generated alert may be communicated, such as via a
   network connection, to an appropriate organisation, such as an organisation that is
   responsible for maintenance of the power transformer 2306, so as to facilitate the
   organisation in investigating any determined faults in respect of the power
 5 transformer 2306.
                   Having described preferred embodiments of the invention with reference to
   the accompanying drawings, it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to
   those precise embodiments and that various changes and modifications could be
   effected therein by one skilled in the art without departing from the spirit or scope of
10 the invention as defined in the appended claims.
                   For example, it is envisaged that the method 100 or the system 2300 may be
   implemented as a computer program that is arranged, when loaded into a computing
   device, to instruct the computing device to operate in accordance with the method
   100 or the system 2300.
15                 Further, or alternatively, the method 100 or the system 2300 may be
   provided in the form of a computer readable medium having a computer readable
   program code embodied therein for causing a computing device to operate in
   accordance with the method 100 or the system 2300.
                  Still further, or alternatively, the method 100 or the system 2300 may be
20 provided in the form of a data signal having a computer readable program code
   embodied therein to cause a computing device to operate in accordance with the
   method 100 or the system 2300.
                   In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention,
   except where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
25 implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is
   used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not
   to preclude the presence or addition of further features in various embodiments of
   the invention.
   9822063_1 (GHMatters) P90871.AU.1

                                                             33
   Claims:
   1.             A method of determining a characteristic of a power transformer, the
   characteristic being associated with a mechanical fault or a dielectric fault of the
   power transformer, and the power transformer having an input current, an input
 5 voltage, an output current and an output voltage, the method comprising the steps
   of:
                   measuring the input current and a voltage difference between the input
                              voltage and the output voltage of the power transformer while the
                               power transformer is in use within a power distribution network;
10                deriving information that is indicative of at least one property of a test locus
                               plot from the measured input current and voltage difference of the
                               power transformer;
                  comparing, by an image processing code and based on the derived
                               information, ellipse features of the test locus plot to ellipse features of a
15                             reference locus plot associated with a reference power transformer so
                               as to determine differences therebetween, determined differences
                               being indicative that the characteristic of the power transformer differs
                              from the characteristic of the reference power transformer; and
                   using the determined differences to categorise, by a further image
20                             processing code, the characteristic of the power transformer, and to
                               identify a type of mechanical fault or dielectric fault of the power
                              transformer.
   2.             The method of claim 1, wherein the power transformer is energized by an
25 alternating current having a mains frequency of an electrical network to which the
   power transformer is, in use, connected.
   3.             The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the characteristic is a characteristic of at
   least one winding of the power transformer.
30
   4.             The method of claim 3, wherein the characteristic of the at least one winding
   of the power transformer is a characteristic for which a chance of the power
   9822063_1 (GHMatters) P90871.AU.1

                                                   34
   transformer failing increases if the power transformer is subjected to a mechanical
   fault or a dielectric fault, if the characteristic differs from that of the reference power
   transformer.
 5 5.             The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the characteristic of
   the power transformer is categorised as any one of the group comprising: an axial
   displacement fault, a buckling stress fault, a leakage (disk to ground) fault, and a
   disk space variation fault.
10 6.             The method of any one of claims 3 to 5, wherein the method further
   comprises the step of determining whether the characteristic of the at least one of
   the windings of the power transformer differs from that of the reference power
   transformer based on any visual differences between the test locus plot and the
   reference locus plot.
15
   7.             The method of claim 6, wherein identified visual differences between the test
   locus plot and the reference locus plot are used to categorise the characteristic of
   the at least one winding.
20 8.             The method of claim 6 or claim 7, wherein identified visual differences
   between the test locus plot and the reference locus plot are used to determine a
   magnitude of the characteristic of the at least one winding.
   9.             The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein ellipse feature
25 differences that are determined include an ellipse centroid, major and/or minor axes
   lengths (a and b respectively), an angle between the major axis and a horizontal axis
   (P and an ellipse eccentricity.
   10.            The method of any one of claims 3 to 9, wherein determined ellipse feature
30 differences between the test locus plot and the reference locus plot are used to
   categorise the characteristic of the at least one winding.
   9822063_1 (GHMatters) P90871.AU.1

                                                               35
   11.            The method of any one of claims 3 to 10, wherein determined ellipse feature
   differences between the test locus plot and the reference locus plot are used to
   determine a magnitude of the characteristic of the at least one winding.
 5 12.            The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the input current
   and the voltage difference of the power transformer are measured each cycle of the
   mains frequency, and wherein the step of comparing, by the image processing code,
   the ellipse features of the test locus plot to ellipse features of the reference locus plot
   so as to determine differences therebetween is performed based on each set of
10 input current and voltage difference for each cycle of the mains frequency.
   13.            The method of claim 12, wherein the method comprises the step of
   generating an early warning signal when differences are determined.
15 14.            A system for determining a characteristic of a power transformer, the
   characteristic being associated with a mechanical fault or a dielectric fault of the
   power transformer, and the power transformer having an input current, an input
   voltage, an output current and an output voltage, the system comprising:
                  data storage arranged to store information that is indicative of at least one
20                             property of a reference locus plot associated with a reference power
                              transformer;
                  a current and voltage measurement system arranged to measure the input
                               current and a voltage difference between the input voltage and the
                               output voltage of the power transformer while the power transformer is
25                             in use within a power distribution network;
                  a test locus plot processing module arranged to derive information that is
                               indicative of at least one property of a test locus plot from the
                               measured input current and voltage difference of the power
                              transformer; and
30                a comparison processing module that is arranged to compare, by an image
                               processing code and based on the derived information, ellipse features
                               of the test locus plot to ellipse features of a reference locus plot
   9822063_1 (GHMatters) P90871.AU.1

                                                             36
                               associated with a reference power transformer so as to determine
                               differences therebetween, determined differences being indicative that
                              the characteristic of the power transformer differs from the
                               characteristic of the reference power transformer; and
 5                a characteristic categorising module arranged to categorise, by a further
                               image processing code and based on the determined differences, the
                               characteristic of the power transformer and to identify a type of
                               mechanical fault or dielectric fault of the power transformer.
10 15.            The system of claim 14, wherein the characteristic is a characteristic of at
   least one winding of the power transformer.
   16.            The system of claim 15, wherein the characteristic of the at least one
   winding of the power transformer is a characteristic for which a chance of the power
15 transformer failing increases if the power transformer is subjected to a mechanical
   fault or a dielectric fault if the characteristic differs from that of the reference power
   transformer.
   9822063_1 (GHMatters) P90871.AU.1

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
