                                              ABSTRACT
The invention provides improved non-human vertebrates and non-vertebrate cells capable of
expressing antibodies comprising human variable region sequences. The present invention is
directed to the provision of long HCDR3s from non-human vertebrates and cells. The present
invention is also directed to the provision of novel V, D and J pairings in immunoglobulin heavy and
light chain loci. Novel, biased antibody diversities and potentially expanded diversities are provided.
The invention also provides for novel and potentially expanded diversity or diversity that is biased
towards variable gene usage common to antibodies useful for treating and/or preventing certain
diseases or conditions, such as infectious diseases. The invention also provides methods of
generating antibodies using such vertebrates, as well as the antibodies per se, therapeutic
compositions thereof and uses.
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

                             MANIPULATION OF IMMUNOGLOBULIN GENE DIVERSITY AND
                                         MULTI-ANTIBODY THERAPEUTICS
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
The       entire        disclosure in the  complete specification of our Australian Patent Application
No. 2012311288 is by this cross-reference incorporated into the present specification.
The present invention relates to the provision of antibodies with long HCDR3 lengths. The present
invention is also directed to the provision of novel V, D and J pairings in immunoglobulin heavy and
light chain loci. Novel, biased antibody diversities and potentially expanded diversities are provided.
The invention also provides for novel and potentially expanded diversity or diversity that is biased
towards variable gene usage common to antibodies useful for treating and/or preventing certain
diseases or conditions, such as infectious diseases. This ability to bias the antibody repertoire also
provides methods of simplifying the production of antibody mixtures, such as polyclonal antibody
therapeutics useful for the treatment and/or prevention of infectious diseases where a polyclonal
approach to target multiple pathogen antigens is desirable. To this end, the present invention also
provides bispecific antibodies that are capable of binding to more than one antigen (eg, multiple
infectious antigens expressed by the same pathogen), thus providing advantages (such as
manufacturing, dosing and administration advantages) not possible with polyclonal antibody mixtures.
The present invention provides vertebrates and cells, such as transgenic mice or rats or transgenic
mouse or rat cells. Furthermore, the invention relates to methods of using the vertebrates to isolate
antibodies or nucleotide sequences encoding antibodies. Antibodies, nucleotide sequences,
pharmaceutical compositions and uses are also provided by the invention.
BACKGROUND
The state of the art provides non-human vertebrates (eg, mice and rats) and cells comprising
transgenic immunoglobulin loci, such loci comprising human variable (V), diversity (D) and/or joining
(J) segments, and optionally human constant regions. Alternatively, endogenous constant regions of
the host vertebrate (eg, mouse or rat constant regions) are provided in the transgenic loci. Methods of
constructing such transgenic vertebrates and use of these to generate antibodies and nucleic acids
thereof following antigen immunisation are known in the art, eg, see US7501552 (Medarex),
US5939598 (Abgenix), US6130364 (Abgenix), W002/066630 (Regeneron), W02011004192
(Genome Research Limited), W02009076464, W02009143472 and W02010039900 (Ablexis), the
disclosures of which are explicitly incorporated herein. Such transgenic loci in the art include varying
amounts of the human V(D) J repertoire.
Existing transgenic immunoglobulin loci tend to be based on a single human DNA source. The
potential diversity of human antibody variable regions in non-human vertebrates bearing such
transgenic loci is thus confined by the repertoire used.
                                                        1
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

It would be desirable to provide for novel and potentially expanded repertoire and diversity of human
variable regions in transgenic immunoglobulin loci and non-human vertebrates harbouring these, as
well as in antibodies produced following immunisation of such animals.
It is to be understood that if any prior art publication is referred to herein, such reference does not
constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the common general knowledge in the art
in Australia or any other country.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
The present inventors have discovered, by way of construction of transgenic non-human vertebrates,
immunisation, antibody heavy chain collection and deep bioinformatics analysis, how to rationally
design for VH domains, heavy chains and antibodies having long HCDR3s. These are useful for
addressing antigens (such as infectious disease pathogen antigens, receptors and enzyme clefts)
where a longer CDR better addresses the target.
The present inventors also realised the possibility of providing combinations of V, D and J gene
segments in new ways to provide synthetic gene segment combinations in immunoglobulin loci that
are not found in nature or in state-of-the-art loci. The inventors realised the importance of this to
provide for novel and potentially expanded repertoire and diversity of human variable regions in
transgenic immunoglobulin loci and non-human vertebrates harbouring these, as well as in antibodies
produced following immunisation of such animals. In one aspect, the inventors realised that it would
be desirable to bias the novel repertoire for the production of antibodies having improved affinity
and/or biophysical characteristics, and/or wherein the range of epitope specificities produced by
means of such repertoire is novel, provides for antibodies to epitopes that have hitherto been
intractable by prior transgenic immunoglobulin loci or difficult to address. For example, the inventors
envisaged a specific application to bias the novel repertoire for the production of antibodies useful in
the therapy and/or prevention of infectious disease.
To this end, in a first configuration of the invention, there is provided a non-human vertebrate
(optionally a mouse or a rat) or vertebrate cell whose genome comprises:
(a)          An immunoglobulin heavy chain locus comprising one or more human V gene segments, one
             or more human D gene segments and one or more human J gene segments upstream of a
             constant region; optionally wherein the heavy chain locus is according to any configuration of
             the invention described below; and
(b)          An immunoglobulin light chain locus comprising either
             (i)            one or more human VH gene segments and one or more human J gene segments
                            upstream of a constant region (optionally a rearranged VHJLCL or VHJACL, wherein
                            the CL is CA or CK); or
             (ii)           one or more human VL gene segments, one or more human D gene segments and
                            one or more human JH gene segments upstream of a constant region (optionally a
                            rearranged VLDJHCL or VADJHCL, wherein the CL is CA or CK); or
                                                             2
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

             (iii)          one or more human VL gene segments selected from the group consisting of: a VAII
                            gene family member, VAVII 4A, VAII 2.1, VAVII 4A, a VA1 gene family member, a
                            VA3gene family member, 15 IGLV1S2, VA3-cML70, lalh2, lalvl, la3h3, Kv325, a VKI
                            gene family member, KI-15A (KL012), VKII family member, a VKIII family member, a
                            VKI gene family member, KI-15A (KL012), VKII A2 (optionally the A2a allele), VK A27
                            (Humkv325) and a gene segment at least 80% identical thereto, and one or more
                            human JL gene segments upstream of a constant region;
Wherein the gene segments in the heavy chain locus are operably linked to the constant region
thereof, and the gene segments in the light chain locus are operably linked to the constant region
thereof, so that upon immunisation the mouse is capable of producing an antibody comprising heavy
chains produced by recombination of the heavy chain locus and light chains produced by
recombination of the light chain locus.
In one aspect,
in (b)(i) the V gene segment repertoire of the light chain locus comprises or consists of one or more
VH gene segments selected from the group consisting of: a VHIII gene family member (optionally, a
VHIIIa or VHIIIb family member), a VHIV gene family member, VHIII 9.1 (VH3-15), VHIII VH26 (VH3
23), VH3-21, LSG6.1, LSG12.1, DP77 (V3-21), VH H11, VH1GRR, ha3h2, VHI-halcl, VHIII-VH2-1,
VH4.18, ha4h3, Hv1051, 71-2, Hv1f1O, VH4.11, 71-4, VH251, VH1-69 and a gene segment at least
80% identical thereto; or
in (b)(iii) the light chain locus V gene segment repertoire consists of one VL gene segment type
(optionally and one or mutants thereof), wherein the VL gene segment is selected from said group of
VL gene segments.
In a second configuration of the present invention, there is provided
A non-human vertebrate (optionally a mouse or a rat) or vertebrate cell whose genome comprises:
(a)          An immunoglobulin heavy chain locus comprising one or more human V gene segments, one
             or more human D gene segments and one or more human J gene segments upstream of a
             constant region; and
(b)
             (i)            An unrearranged immunoglobulin light chain locus comprising one or more human
                            VH gene segments and one or more human J gene segments upstream of a constant
                            region, wherein each human VH gene segment is a human gene segment identical to
                            (or mutant of) a human VH gene segment used to produce a rearranged VDJ
                            encoding a heavy chain variable region of a human antibody from an antibody
                            expressing cell wherein said antibody binds to an antigen of an infectious disease
                            pathogen (optionally the variable regions of said antibody being identical to an
                            antibody from a human individual suffering, susceptible to, or recovered from, a
                                                             3
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

                            disease or condition caused or mediated by an organism harbouring or secreting said
                            antigen; or from a human individual harbouring said organism); or
             (ii)           An immunoglobulin light chain locus comprising a rearranged VJ region or VDJ
                            region upstream of a constant region, wherein the nucleotide sequence of the
                            recombined region is identical to a nucleotide sequence produced by the
                            recombination of a human J gene segment and optionally a human D gene segment
                            with a human VH gene segment that is identical to (or mutant of) the human VH gene
                            segment used to produce a rearranged VDJ encoding a heavy chain variable region
                            of a human antibody from an antibody-expressing cell wherein said antibody binds to
                            an antigen of an infectious disease pathogen (optionally the variable regions of said
                            antibody being identical to an antibody from a human individual suffering, susceptible
                            to, or recovered from, a disease or condition caused or mediated by an organism
                            harbouring or secreting said antigen; or from a human individual harbouring said
                            organism);
(c)          Wherein the gene segments in the heavy chain locus are operably linked to the constant
             region thereof, and the gene segments or VJ or VDJ in the light chain locus are operably
             linked to the constant region thereof, so that upon immunisation the mouse is capable of
             producing an antibody comprising heavy chains produced by recombination of the heavy
             chain locus and light chains derived from the light chain locus;
(d)          Optionally when (b)(i) applies, each said VH gene segment in the light chain locus is selected
             from the group consisting of: a VHIII gene family member (optionally, a VHIIIa or VHIIIb family
             member), a VHIV gene family member, VHIII 9.1 (VH3-15), VHIII VH26 (VH3-23), VH3-21,
             LSG6.1, LSG12.1, DP77 (V3-21), VH H11, VH1GRR, ha3h2, VHI-halcl, VHIII-VH2-1,
             VH4.18, ha4h3, Hv1051, 10 71-2, Hv1f10, VH4.11, 71-4, VH251, VH1-69 and a gene
             segment at least 80% identical thereto;
(e)          Optionally when (b)(ii) applies, the nucleotide sequence of the recombined region is identical
             to a nucleotide sequence produced by the recombination of a human J gene segment and
             optionally a human D gene segment with a human VH gene segment selected from the group
             consisting of: a VHIII gene family member (optionally, a VHIIIa or VHIIIb family member), a
             VHIV gene family member, VHIII 9.1 (VH3-15), VHIII VH26 (VH3-23), VH3-21, LSG6.1,
             LSG12.1, DP77 (V3-21), VH H11, VH1GRR, ha3h2, VHI-halcl, VHIII-VH2-1, VH4.18, ha4h3,
             Hv1051, 71-2, Hv1f10, VH4.11, 71-4, VH251, VH1-69 and a gene segment at least 80%
             identical thereto.
In one aspect, the V gene segment repertoire of the light chain locus comprises or consists of one
human VH gene segment; optionally germline VH and one or more polymorphic variants thereof, eg,
where each polymorphic variant differs from the germline VH nucleotide sequence by 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,
7, 8, 9 or 10 positions. In one aspect, the V gene segment repertoire of the light chain locus
comprises or consists of human VH1-69 gene segment; optionally germline VH1-69 and one or more
polymorphic variants thereof, eg, where each polymorphic variant differs from the germline VH1-69 25
nucleotide sequence by 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 or 10 positions. An example of constructing an
                                                               4
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

immunoglobulin locus comprising VH1-69 and polymorphic variants is given below. By using a
particular gene segment (eg, one commonly found in human antibodies raised in humans against an
infection or other condition) and one or more polymorphic variants thereof, it is possible to provide a
repertoire of genes and yet still bias the antibody gene repertoire to a gene segment that is relevant to
the disease (eg, an infectious disease, such as a bacterial or viral disease, eg, influenza). This
provides a useful pool of genes from which to ultimately generate and isolate a lead antibody for a
therapeutic/prophylactic against the disease in question. In an example, the polymorphic variants are
natural variants seen in human beings or human populations. The skilled person will know of sources
of human                  antibody gene sequences,      such    as    IMGT      (www.imgt.org),  GenBank
(www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/genbank) and the 1000 Genomes databases (www.1000genomes.org).
Bioinformatics tools for database manipulation are also readily available and known to the skilled
person, eg, as publicly available from the 1000 Genomes Project/EBI (www.1000genomes.org)
In another aspect, the genome of said vertebrate or cell is homozygous for light chain locus (b)(i) or
(ii); optionally wherein:
-            the V gene segment repertoire of the light chain loci consists of one or more human VH gene
             segments selected from the group consisting of: a VHIII gene family member (optionally, a
             VHIIIa or VHIIIb family member), a VHIV gene family member, VHIII 9.1 (VH3-15), VHIII
             VH26 (VH3-23), VH3- 21, LSG6.1, LSG12.1, DP77 (V3-21), VH H11, VH1GRR, ha3h2, VHI
             halc1, VHIII-VH2-1, VH4.18, ha4h3, Hv1051, 71-2, Hvlfl0, VH4.11, 71-4, VH251, VH1-69
             and a gene segment at least 80% identical thereto; or
-            the recombined VJ or VDJ repertoire of the light chain loci consists of sequences identical to
             one or more nucleotide sequences produced by the recombination of a human VH gene
             segment selected from the group consisting of: a VHIII gene family member (optionally, a
             VHIIIa or VHIIIb family member), a VHIV gene family member, VHIII 9.1 (VH3-15), VHIII
             VH26 (VH3-23), VH3-21, LSG6.1, LSG12.1, DP77 (V3-21), VH H11, VH1GRR, ha3h2, VHI
             halc1, VHIII-VH2-1, VH4.18, ha4h3, Hv1051, 20 71-2, Hvlfl0, VH4.11, 71-4, VH251, VH1
             69 and a gene segment at least 80% identical thereto, with a human J gene segment and
             optionally a human D gene segment.
In another aspect, each immunoglobulin light chain locus of said vertebrate or cell is according to
(b)(i) and comprises only a single human VH gene segment selected from the group consisting of: a
VHIII gene family member (optionally, a VHIIIa or VHIIIb family member), a VHIV gene family
member, VHIII 9.1 (VH3-15), VHIII VH26 (VH3-23), VH3-21, LSG6.1, LSG12.1, DP77 (V3-21), VH
H11, VH1GRR, ha3h2, VHI-halcl, VHIII-VH2-1, VH4.18, ha4h3, Hv1051, 71-2, HvlflO, VH4.11, 71
4, VH251, VH1-69 and a gene segment at least 80% identical thereto, optionally wherein the genome
of the vertebrate or cell is homozygous for said light chain so that all light chain loci comprise the
same, single human VH gene segment.
The invention provides a first method of isolating an antibody that binds a predetermined antigen, the
method comprising:
                                                       5
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

(a)          providing a vertebrate (optionally a mouse or rat) according to any preceding configuration or
             aspect;
(b)          immunising said vertebrate with said antigen (optionally wherein the antigen is an antigen of
             an infectious disease pathogen);
(c)          removing B lymphocytes from the vertebrate and selecting one or more B lymphocytes
             expressing antibodies that bind to the antigen;
(d)          optionally immortalising said selected B lymphocytes or progeny thereof, optionally by
             producing hybridomas therefrom; and
(e)          isolating an antibody (eg, and IgG-type antibody) expressed by the B lymphocytes.
A second method is provided comprising carrying out the first method and the step of isolating from
said B lymphocytes nucleic acid encoding said antibody that binds said antigen; optionally
exchanging the heavy chain constant region nucleotide sequence of the antibody with a nucleotide
sequence encoding a human or humanised heavy chain constant region and optionally affinity
maturing the variable region of said antibody; and optionally inserting said nucleic acid into an
expression vector and optionally a host.
An aspect provides method of producing a polyclonal antibody mixture, the method comprising
carrying out the first method by separately immunising first and second vertebrates (optionally first
and second mice or first and second rats) with antigen and combining the anti-antigen antibodies
isolated from each vertebrate (or mutants or derivatives of said antibodies) to produce a polyclonal
antibody mixture; optionally wherein the following apply separately or in combination ((i) and (ii); or (i)
and (iii)):
(i)          the vertebrates are immunised with the same antigen or different antigens (optionally wherein
             the different antigens are expressed by the same pathogenic organism (or a family member
             thereof));
(ii)         prior to immunisation the light chain loci of the vertebrates contain the identical VH gene
             repertoire (optionally a single VH gene) and optionally the identical J repertoire; optionally the
             light chain loci of the mammals are identical prior to immunisation;
(iii)        prior to immunisation the light chain loci of the vertebrates contain the identical rearranged VJ
             or VDJ repertoire (optionally a single VJ or VDJ); optionally the light chain loci of the
             vertebrates are identical prior to immunisation.
An aspect provides method of producing a polyclonal antibody mixture, the method comprising
carrying out the first method by immunising one or a plurality of vertebrates (optionally mice or rats)
with first and second antigens and combining the anti-antigen antibodies isolated from each
vertebrate (or mutants or derivatives of said antibodies) to produce a polyclonal antibody mixture;
optionally wherein the following apply separately or in combination ((i) and (ii); or (i) and (iii)):
                                                          6
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

(i)          the antigens are expressed by the same pathogenic organism (or a family member thereof));
(ii)         prior to immunisation the light chain loci of the vertebrates contain the identical VH gene
             repertoire (optionally a single VH gene) and optionally the identical J repertoire; optionally the
             light chain loci of the mammals are identical prior to immunisation;
(iii)        prior to immunisation the light chain loci of the vertebrates contain the identical rearranged VJ
             or VDJ repertoire (optionally a single VJ or VDJ); optionally the light chain loci of the
             vertebrates are identical prior to immunisation.
An aspect provides method of producing host cells capable of expressing a polyclonal antibody
mixture, the method comprising, in the second method:
(a)          immunising one or a plurality of vertebrates (optionally mice or rats) with first and second
             antigens (optionally wherein the different antigens are expressed by the same pathogenic
             organism (or a family member thereof));
(b)          isolating nucleic acid encoding first and second anti-antigen antibodies from B lymphocytes
             from said vertebrates;
(c)          determining the nucleotide sequences of the heavy and light chain variable regions of the first
             antibody;
(d)          determining the nucleotide sequence of the heavy variable region and optionally the light
             chain variable region of the second antibody;
(e)          inserting the heavy chain variable region coding sequence of each antibody into a heavy
             chain expression vector; optionally wherein the constant region coding sequence of each
             heavy chain is exchanged for a nucleotide sequence that encodes a human or humanised
             constant region;
(f)          inserting the light chain variable region coding sequence of the first antibody into a light chain
             expression vector; optionally wherein the constant region coding sequence of the light chain
             of the first antibody is exchanged for a nucleotide sequence that encodes a human or
             humanised constant region;
(g)          optionally inserting the light chain variable region coding sequence of the second antibody
             into a light chain expression vector; optionally wherein the constant region coding sequence
             of the light chain of the second antibody is exchanged for a nucleotide sequence that
             encodes a human or humanised constant region; and
(h)          introducing each expression vector into a host cell and co-expressing antibody chains in a
             mixture of said host cells to produce antibodies, each antibody comprising one or both of said
             heavy chain variable regions and a light chain; optionally wherein the expression vectors are
             introduced together into the same host cell (eg, a CHO or HEK293 cell) so that the cell is
             capable of expressing antibody light chains and heavy chains, such that the cell or a plurality
                                                          7
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

             of the host cells express antibodies, each comprising one or both of said heavy chain variable
             regions and a light chain;
(i)          optionally:
             prior to immunisation the light chain loci of the vertebrates contain the identical VH gene
             repertoire (optionally a single VH gene segment) and optionally the identical J repertoire
             (optionally a single J gene segment); optionally the light chain loci of the vertebrates are
             identical prior to immunisation; or
             prior to immunisation the light chain loci of the vertebrates contain the identical rearranged VJ
             or VDJ repertoire (optionally a single VJ or VDJ); optionally the light chain loci of the
             vertebrates are identical prior to immunisation.
The invention also provides a method of producing a monoclonal or polyclonal antibody mixture,
optionally for use in medicine, optionally for the treatment and/or prevention of an infectious disease,
wherein optionally wherein each antibody binds an antigen of an infectious disease pathogen,
preferably the same antigen. The invention also provides the use of an isolated, monoclonal or
polyclonal antibody, or a mutant or derivative antibody thereof in the manufacture of a medicament for
the treatment and/or prevention of an infectious disease, optionally wherein the infectious disease is a
disease caused by a bacterial or viral pathogen.
The invention further provides an isolated antibody (eg, IgG-type antibody) obtainable or obtained by
a method of the invention, or a mutant or derivative antibody thereof wherein (i) the isolated antibody
comprises two copies of the heavy chain variable region of said first antibody paired with two copies
of the light chain variable region of said first antibody; or (ii) the isolated antibody comprises two
copies of the heavy chain variable region of said second antibody paired with two copies of the light
chain variable region of said first antibody; or (iii) the isolated antibody is a bispecific antibody
comprising one copy of the heavy chain variable region of said first antibody paired with a copy of the
light chain variable region of the first antibody, and one copy of the heavy chain variable region of
said the antibody paired with a copy of the light chain variable region of the first antibody, optionally
wherein the bispecific antibody binds to said first and second antigens are expressed by the same
pathogenic organism (or a family member thereof; optionally for use in medicine, optionally for the
treatment and/or prevention of an infectious disease.
In an aspect, there is provided a nucleotide sequence encoding an antibody of the invention,
optionally wherein the nucleotide sequence is part of a vector.
In an aspect, there is provided a pharmaceutical composition comprising the antibody or antibodies of
the invention and a diluent, excipient or carrier.
In a third configuration of the invention, there is provided
A non-human vertebrate (optionally a mouse or a rat) or vertebrate cell whose genome comprises:
(a)          An immunoglobulin heavy chain locus comprising either:
                                                          8
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

             (i)            one or more human VL gene segments, one or more human D gene segments and
                            one or more human J gene segments upstream of a constant region (optionally a
                            rearranged VLDJHCH or VADJHCH); or
             (ii)           one or more human VH gene segments selected from the group consisting of: a VHIII
                            gene family member (optionally, a VHIIIa or VHIIIb family member), a VHIV gene
                            family member, VHIII 9.1 (VH3-15), VHIII VH26 (VH3-23), VH3-21, LSG6.1,
                            LSG12.1, DP77 (V3-21), VH H11, VH1GRR, ha3h2, VHI- halc1, VHIII-VH2-1,
                            VH4.18, ha4h3, Hv1051, 71-2, HvlflO, VH4.11, 71-4, VH251, VH1-69 and a gene
                            segment at least 80% identical; one or more human D gene segments and one or
                            more human JH gene segments upstream of a constant region; and
(b)          An immunoglobulin light chain locus comprising one or more human V gene segments and
             one or more human J gene segments upstream of a constant region, optionally wherein the
             light chain locus is according to (b)(i) or (b)(ii) of the first configuration of the invention;
Wherein the gene segments in the heavy chain locus are operably linked to the constant region
thereof, and the gene segments in the light chain locus are operably linked to the constant region
thereof, so that upon immunisation the mouse is capable of producing an antibody comprising heavy
chains produced by recombination of the heavy chain locus and light chains produced by
recombination of the light chain locus.
In a fourth configuration of the invention, there is provided
A non-human vertebrate (optionally a mouse or a rat) or vertebrate cell whose genome comprises:
(a)
             (i)            An unrearranged immunoglobulin heavy chain locus comprising one or more human
                            VL gene segments, one or more human D gene segments and one or more JH gene
                            segments upstream of a constant region, wherein each human VL gene segment is a
                            human gene segment identical to (or mutant of) a human VL gene segment used to
                            produce a rearranged VJ encoding a light chain variable region of a human antibody
                            from an antibody-expressing cell wherein said antibody binds to an antigen of an
                            infectious disease pathogen (optionally the variable regions of said antibody being
                            identical to an antibody from a human individual suffering, susceptible to, or
                            recovered from, a disease or condition caused or mediated by an organism
                            harbouring or secreting said antigen; or from a human individual harbouring said
                            organism); or
             (ii)           An immunoglobulin heavy chain locus comprising a rearranged VJ region or VDJ
                            region upstream of a constant region, wherein the nucleotide sequence of the
                            recombined region is identical to a        nucleotide sequence produced by the
                            recombination of a human J gene segment and optionally a human D gene segment
                            with a human VL gene segment that is identical to (or mutant of) the human VL gene
                            segment used to produce a rearranged VJ encoding a light chain variable region of a
                                                             9
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

                            human antibody from an antibody-expressing cell wherein said antibody binds to an
                            antigen of an infectious disease pathogen (optionally the variable regions of said
                            antibody being identical to an antibody from a human individual suffering, susceptible
                            to, or recovered from, a disease or condition caused or mediated by an organism
                            harbouring or secreting said antigen; or from a human individual harbouring said
                            organism);
(b)          An immunoglobulin light chain locus comprising one or more human V gene segments and
             one or more human J gene segments upstream of a constant region; and
(c)          Wherein the gene segments in the light chain locus are operably linked to the constant region
             thereof, and the gene segments or VJ or VDJ in the heavy chain locus are operably linked to
             the constant region thereof, so that upon immunisation the mouse is capable of producing an
             antibody comprising light chains produced by recombination of the light chain locus and
             heavy chains derived from the heavy chain locus;
(d)          Optionally when (a)(i) applies, each said VL gene segment in the heavy chain locus is
             selected from the group consisting of a VL gene segment selected from the group consisting
             of a VAII gene family member, VAVII 4A, VAII 2.1, VAVII 4A, a VA1 gene family member, a
             VA3gene family member, IGLV1S2, VA3-cML70, lalh2, lalvl, la3h3, Kv325, a VKI gene family
             member, KI-15A (KL012), 20 VKII family member, a VKIII family member, a VKI gene family
             member, KI-15A (KL012), VKII A2 (optionally the A2a allele), VK A27 (Humkv325) and a
             gene segment at least 80% identical thereto;
(e)          Optionally when (a)(ii) applies, the nucleotide sequence of the recombined region is identical
             to a nucleotide sequence produced by the recombination of a human J gene segment and
             optionally a human D gene segment with a human VL gene segment selected from the group
             consisting of a VL gene segment selected from the group consisting of a VAII gene family
             member, VAVII 4A, VAII 2.1, VAVII 4A, a VA1 gene family member, a VA3gene family
             member, IGLV1S2, VA3- cML70, lalh2, lalvl, la3h3, Kv325, a VKI gene family member, KI
             15A (KL012), VKII family member, a VKIII family member, a VKI gene family member, KI-15A
             (KL012), VKII A2 (optionally the A2a allele), VK A27 (Humkv325) and a gene segment at
             least 80% identical thereto.
             In one aspect of the fourth configuration of the invention, the genome of said vertebrate or
             cell is homozygous for heavy chain locus (a)(i) or (ii); optionally wherein:
             the V gene segment repertoire of the heavy chain loci consists of one or more human VL
             gene segments selected from the group consisting of a VL gene segment selected from the
             group consisting of a VAII gene family member, VAVII 4A, VAII 2.1, VAVII 4A, a VA1 gene
             family member, a VA3gene family member, IGLV1S2, VA3-cML70, lalh2, lalvl, la3h3, Kv325,
             a VKI gene family member, KI-15A (KL012), VKII family member, a VKIII family member, a
             VKI gene family member, KI-15A (KL012), VKII A2 (optionally the A2a allele), VK A27
             (Humkv325) and a gene segment at least 80% identical thereto; or
                                                               10
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

-            the recombined VJ or VDJ repertoire of the heavy chain loci consists of sequences identical
             to one or more nucleotide sequences produced by the recombination of a human VL gene
             segment selected from the group consisting of a VL gene segment selected from the group
             consisting of a VAII gene family member, VAVII 4A, VAII 2.1, VAVII 4A, a VA1 gene family
             member, a VA3gene family member, IGLV1S2, VA3-cML70, lalh2, lalvl, la3h3, Kv325, a VKI
             gene family member, KI-15A (KL012), VKII family member, a VKIII family member, a VKI
             gene family member, KI-15A (KL012), VKII A2 (optionally the A2a allele), VK A27
             (Humkv325) and a gene segment at least 80% identical thereto with a human J gene
             segment and optionally a human D gene segment.
The invention provides a monoclonal or polyclonal antibody composition prepared by immunisation of
at least one vertebrate (eg, mouse or rat) according to any preceding configuration or aspect with an
antigen, optionally wherein the antigen is an antigen of an infectious disease pathogen, optionally
wherein the same antigen is used to immunise all the vertebrates; optionally wherein the antibody or
antibodies are IgG-type.
The invention also provides an isolated chimaeric antibody for treating and/or preventing an infectious
disease or condition, the antibody comprising a non-human vertebrate (optionally a mouse or rat)
heavy chain constant regions and human variable regions that bind an antigen of an infectious
disease pathogen, wherein the antibody is obtainable or obtained in a method comprising
immunisation of a non-human vertebrate of the invention with said antigen.
The invention also provides an isolated human antibody for treating and/or preventing an infectious
disease or condition, the antibody comprising human heavy chain constant regions and human
variable regions that bind an antigen of an infectious disease pathogen, wherein the antibody is
obtainable or obtained in a method comprising affinity maturation of antibody variable regions in vivo
in a transgenic non-human vertebrate (eg, mouse or rat) when said variable regions are operably
linked to heavy chain constant regions of said vertebrate (eg, mouse or rat heavy chain constant
regions) by (a) immunisation of a vertebrate of the invention with said antigen, (b) isolation of nucleic
acid encoding a chimaeric antibody according to the invention, (c) replacing the nucleotide sequences
of the nucleic acid that encode the non-human vertebrate heavy chain constant regions with
nucleotide sequence encoding human heavy chain constant regions to produce nucleic acid encoding
a human antibody; (d) expressing the human antibody in vitro (optionally from CHO or HEK293 cells
harbouring the human nucleic acid) and (e) isolating the human antibody (optionally with further
affinity maturation of the antibody and/or producing a derivative thereof).
An aspect provides a mixture of first and second human antibodies, each antibody being capable of
binding to an antigen of an infectious disease pathogen (optionally wherein the first antibody binds a
first antigen and the second antibody binds a second antigen, said antigens being from the same
pathogen; or wherein the antigens are the same). In an embodiment, a common light chain is used
which enables simplified manufacture of the antibody mixture. Thus, there is provided in the mixture,
the light chain amino acid sequence of the first antibody that is identical to the light chain amino acid
sequence of the second antibody, or has up to amino acid changes therefrom.
                                                     11
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

The invention further provides a host cell comprising one or more expression vectors encoding 3 or
more first and second antibody heavy and light chains.
In a fifth configuration of the invention, there is provided
A synthetic immunoglobulin locus comprising one or more variable and J gene segments (and
optionally one or more D gene segments) operably linked 5' of a constant region, wherein the locus
comprises a 5' to 3' V(D)J arrangement selected from the group consisting of immunoglobulin locus
can be constructed with one or more of the following arrangements (5' to 3'):
(a)          [V (heavy, lambda or kappa)] - [two-turn RSS] -            [one-turn RSS] - [D] - [JH], wherein said
             RSSs are in an opposite orientation;
(b)          [VH] - [D] - [two-turn RSS]  -      [one-turn RSS]   -   [J lambda], wherein said RSSs are in an
             opposite orientation;
(c)          [VH] - [D] - [one-turn RSS]    -     [two-turn RSS]    -  [J kappa], wherein said RSSs are in an
             opposite orientation;
 (d)         [VH or V kappa] - [two-turn RSS] -      [one-turn RSS] - [J lambda], wherein said RSSs are in an
             opposite orientation;
(e)          [V kappa] - [one-turn RSS] -     [two-turn RSS] - [JH or J lambda], wherein said RSSs are in an
             opposite orientation;
(f)          [V (heavy, lambda or kappa)] - [one-turn RSS] -             [two-turn RSS] - [D] - [JH], wherein said
             RSSs 10 are in an opposite orientation;
(g)          [VH] - [D] - [one-turn RSS] -       [two-turn RSS]   -   [J lambda], wherein said RSSs are in an
             opposite orientation;
(h)          [VH] - [D] - [two-turn RSS] -        [one-turn RSS]    -  [J kappa], wherein said RSSs are in an
             opposite orientation;
(i)          [VH or V kappa] - [one-turn RSS] -       [two-turn RSS] - [J lambda], wherein said RSSs are in an
             opposite orientation;
(j)          [V kappa] - [two-turn RSS] -    [one-turn RSS] - [JH or J lambda], wherein said RSSs are in an
             opposite orientation.
In a sixth configuration, the invention also provides means for generating VH domains, heavy chains
and antibodies having a long HCDR3 length. In this context, the invention provides:
A non-human vertebrate (eg, a mouse or a rat) or a non-human vertebrate cell (eg, a mouse cell or a
rat cell) whose genome comprises a human immunoglobulin D gene segment repertoire that is biased
to the human D2 and/or D3 family or biased to one, more or all human D gene segments selected
from the group D1-26, D2-2, D3-9, D3-10, D3-22, D4-17, D6-13 and D6-19.
                                                            12
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

A non-human vertebrate (eg, a mouse or a rat) or a non-human vertebrate cell (eg, a mouse cell or a
rat cell), optionally according to any preceding claim, whose genome comprises a human
immunoglobulin VH gene segment repertoire that is biased to one, more or all of gene segments
selected from the group VH1-2, VH1-3, VH1-8, VH1-18, VH5-51, VH1-69, VH2-5, VH3-7, VH3-9,
VH3- 11, VH3-13, VH3-20, VH3-21, VH3-23, VH4-4, VH6-1 and VH7-4-1.
A non-human vertebrate (eg, a mouse or a rat) or a non-human vertebrate cell (eg, a mouse cell or a
rat cell) whose genome comprises a human immunoglobulin JH gene segment repertoire that is
biased to human JH6.
A monoclonal or polyclonal antibody composition or a population of antibody-producing cells for
producing such composition, wherein the composition or population is prepared by immunising at
least one vertebrate according to any preceding claim with an antigen, wherein the antibody or
antibodies have human heavy chain variable regions comprising non-human vertebrate AID-pattern
somatic hypermutations, (eg, mouse or rat AID-pattern mutations) when compared to corresponding
human germline V, D and J sequences and/or non-human (eg, mouse or rat) terminal
deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT)- pattern junctional mutations when compared to corresponding
human germline V, D and J sequences; wherein the composition comprises at least one antigen- 15
specific antibody having a HCDR3 length of at least 20 amino acids (according to IMGT).
A repertoire of antibody heavy chains (eg, provided by antibodies) comprising one or more heavy
chains whose variable domain HCDR3 has a length of at least 20 amino acids (according to IMGT)
and derived from the recombination of a human VH, D and JH, wherein 20 the VH is selected from
the group
VH1-2*02, VH1-3*01, VH1-8*01, VH1-18*01, VH2-5*10, VH3-7*01, VH3-9*01, VH3-11*01, VH3
13*01, VH3-21*03, VH3-23*04, VH4-4*02, VH6-1*01 and VH7-4-1*01 and the D is selected from the
group D2-2*02, D3-9*01, D3-10*01 and D3-22*01, or 25 D2-2*02, D3-9*01 and D3-10*01, or D3-9*01
and D3-10*01, or
D1-26, D2-2, D3-9, D3-10, D3-22, D4-17, D6-13 and D6-19, or
D1-26*01, D2-2*02, D3-9*01, D3-10*01, D3-22*01, D4-17*01, D6-13*01 and D6-19*01, or D2-2, D3
9, D3-10, D3-22, D4-17, D6-13 and D6-19, or D2-2*02, D3-9*01, D3-10*01, D3-22*01, D4- 30 17*01,
D6-13*01 and D6-19*01, or D1-26, D2-2, D3-10 and D6-19, or D2-2, D3-9 and D3-10; and optionally
the JH is JH6 (eg, JH6*02);
Wherein
(a)          the heavy chain variable domain has been produced in vivo in a non-human vertebrate (eg, a
             mouse or a rat); and/or
(b)          the heavy chain variable domain comprises non-human vertebrate AID-pattern somatic
             hypermutations, (eg, mouse or rat AID-pattern mutations) when compared to corresponding
             human germline V, D and J sequences and/or non-human (eg, mouse or rat) terminal
                                                     13
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

             deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT)- pattern junctional mutations      when   compared   to
             corresponding human germline V, D and J sequences.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
Figures 1 to 3: Schematic illustrating a protocol for producing recombineered BAC vectors to add V
gene segments into a mouse genome;
Figure 4: Schematic illustrating a protocol for adding V gene segments to a mouse genome using
sequential recombinase mediated cassette exchange (sRMCE);
Figure 5 (in 4 parts): Alignment of 13 IGHV1-69 alleles showing the variable (V) coding region only.
Nucleotides that differ from VH1-69 allele *01 are indicated at the appropriate position whereas
identical nucleotides are marked with a dash. Where nucleotide changes result in amino acid
differences, the encoded amino acid is shown above the corresponding triplet. Boxed regions
correspond to CDR1, CDR2 and CDR3 as indicated; and
Figure 6: RSS structure and recombination schematic.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
A source for human V, D and J gene segments is Bacterial Artificial Chromosomes (RPCI-1 1 BACs)
obtained                from      Roswell  Park   Cancer         Institute (RPCI)/Invitrogen.      See
http://bacpac.chori.org/hmale11.htm, which describes the BACs as follows:
"RPCI -11 Human Male BAC Librarv
The RPCI-11 Human Male BAC Library (Osoegawa et al., 2001) was constructed using improved
cloning techniques (Osoegawa et al., 1998) developed by Kazutoyo Osoegawa. The library was
generated by Kazutoyo Osoegawa. Construction was funded by a grant from the National Human
Genome Research Institute (NHGRI, NIH) (#1R01RG01165-03). This library was generated
according to the new NHGRI/DOE "Guidance on Human Subjects in Large-Scale DNA Sequencing...
"Male blood was obtained via a double-blind selection protocol. Male blood DNA was isolated from
one randomly chosen donor (out of 10 male donors)".
-            Osoegawa K, Mammoser AG, Wu C, Frengen E, Zeng C, Catanese JJ, de Jong PJ; Genome
             Res. 2001 Mar;11(3):483-96; "A bacterial artificial chromosome library for sequencing the
             complete human genome";
-            Osoegawa, K., Woon, P.Y., Zhao, B., Frengen, E., Tateno, M., Catanese, J.J, and de Jong,
             P.J. (1998); "An Improved Approach for Construction of Bacterial Artificial Chromosome
             Libraries"; Genomics 52, 1-8.
As a source of antibody gene segment sequences, the skilled person will also be aware of the 15
following available databases and resources (including updates thereof):
                                                    14
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

1.1.         The Kabat Database (G. Johnson and T. T.Wu, 2002; http://www.kabatdatabase.com).
             Created by E. A. Kabat and T. T. Wu in 1966, the Kabat database publishes aligned
             sequences of antibodies, T-cell receptors, major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I and
             II molecules, and other proteins of immunological interest. A searchable interface is provided
             by the Seqhuntll tool, and a range of utilities is available for sequence alignment, sequence
             subgroup classification, and the generation of variability plots. See also Kabat, E. A.,Wu, T.
             T., Perry, H., Gottesman, K., and Foeller, C. (1991) Sequences of Proteins of Immunological
             Interest, 5th ed., NIH Publication No. 91- 3242,Bethesda, MD, which is incorporated herein by
             reference, in particular with reference to 25 human gene segments for use in the present
             invention.
1.2.         KabatMan (A. C. R. Martin, 2002; http://www.bioinf.org.uk/abs/simkab.html). This is a web
             interface to make simple queries to the Kabat sequence database.
1.3.         IMGT, the International ImMunoGeneTics Information System@; M.-P. Lefranc, 2002;
             http://imgt.cines.fr). IMGT is an integrated information system that specializes in antibodies, T
             cell receptors, and MHC molecules of all vertebrate species. It provides a common portal to
             standardized data that include nucleotide and protein sequences, oligonucleotide primers,
             gene maps, genetic 5 polymorphisms, specificities, and two-dimensional (2D) and three
             dimensional (3D) structures. IMGT includes three sequence databases (IMGT/LIGM-DB,
             IMGT/MHC-DB, IMGT/PRIMERDB), one genome database (IMGT/GENE-DB), one 3D
             structure database (IMGT/3Dstructure-DB), and a range of web resources ("IMGT Marie
             Paule page") and interactive tools.
1.4          V-BASE             (I. M. Tomlinson,  2002;http://www.mrc-cpe.cam.ac.uk/vbase).  V-BASE     is a
             comprehensive directory of all human antibody germline variable region sequences compiled
             from more than one thousand published sequences. It includes a version of the alignment
             software DNAPLOT (developed by Hans-Helmar Althaus and Werner Muller) that allows the
             assignment of rearranged antibody V genes to their closest germline gene segments.
1.5.         Antibodies-Structure and Sequence(A. C. R. Martin, 2002; http://www.bioinf.org.uk/abs).
             This page summarizes useful information on antibody structure and sequence. It provides a
             query interface to the Kabat antibody sequence data, general information on antibodies,
             crystal structures, and links to other antibody-related information. It also distributes an
             automated summary of all antibody structures deposited in the Protein Databank (PDB). Of
             particular interest is a thorough description and comparison of the various numbering
             schemes for antibody variable regions.
1.6.         AAAAA-AHo's               Amazing    Atlas  of    Antibody  Anatomy     (A.  Honegger,     2001;
             http://www.unizh.ch/-antibody). This resource includes tools for structural analysis, modeling,
             and engineering. It adopts a unifying scheme for comprehensive structural alignment of
             antibody and T- cell-receptor sequences, and includes Excel macros for antibody analysis
             and graphical representation.
                                                            15
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

1.7.         WAM-Web                Antibody    Modeling    (N. Whitelegg    and    A.   R.  Rees, 2001;
             http://antibody.bath.ac.uk). Hosted by the Centre for Protein Analysis and Design at the
             University of Bath, United Kingdom. Based on the AbM package (formerly marketed by
             Oxford Molecular) to construct 3D models of antibody Fv sequences using a combination of
             established theoretical methods, this site also includes the latest antibody structural
             information.
1.8.         Mike's              Immunoglobulin   Structure/Function   Page     (M.    R.   Clark, 2001;
             http://www.path.cam.ac.uk/-mrc7/mikeimages.html)          These    pages provide educational
             materials on immunoglobulin structure and function, and are illustrated by many colour
             images, models, and animations. Additional information is available on antibody humanization
             and Mike Clark's Therapeutic Antibody Human Homology Project, which aims to correlate
             clinical efficacy and anti- 10 immunoglobulin responses with variable region sequences of
             therapeutic antibodies.
1.9.         The           Antibody      Resource     Page     (The  Antibody    Resource   Page,  2000;
             http://www.antibodyresource.com). This site describes itself as the "complete guide to
             antibody research and suppliers." Links to amino acid sequencing tools, nucleotide antibody
             sequencing tools, 15 and hybridoma/cell-culture databases are provided.
1.20.        Humanization bY Design (J. Saldanha, 2000; http://people.cryst.bbk.ac.uk/-ubcg07s). This
             resource provides an overview on antibody humanization technology. The most useful feature
             is a searchable database (by sequence and text) of more than 40 published humanized
             antibodies including information on design issues, framework choice, framework back
             mutations, and binding affinity of the humanized constructs.
See also Antibody Engineering Methods and Protocols, Ed. Benny K C Lo, Methods in Molecular
Biology TM, Human Press. Also at http://www.blogsua.com/pdf/antibody-engineering-methods-and
protocolsantibody-engineering-methods-and-protocols.pdf
In one embodiment throughout the present text, "germline" refers to the canonical germline gene
segment sequence.
The present invention is directed to the provision of novel V, D and J pairings in immunoglobulin
heavy and light chain loci. Novel, biased antibody diversities and potentially expanded diversities are
provided. One aspect of the invention exploits the natural pairing of compatible recombination signal
sequences (RSSs) during antibody V(D)J recombination in vivo, and this aspect of the invention
provides new, synthetic combinations of V, D and J gene segments using the observation of RSS
compatibility.
Another aspect of the invention is based on the observation of V, D and J usage bias in naturally
occurring human antibodies raised against infectious disease pathogens. The invention is useful for
manipulating the antibody gene diversity in transgenic non-human animals, thus providing for novel
and potentially expanded diversity or diversity that is biased towards variable gene usage common to
antibodies useful for treating and/or preventing certain diseases or conditions, such as infectious
diseases. This ability to bias the antibody repertoire also provides methods of simplifying the
                                                             16
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

production of antibody mixtures, such as polyclonal antibody therapeutics useful for the treatment
and/or prevention of infectious diseases where a polyclonal approach to target multiple pathogen
antigens is desirable. To this end, the present invention also provides bispecific antibodies that are
capable of binding to more than one antigen (eg, multiple infectious antigens expressed by the same
pathogen), thus providing advantages (such as manufacturing,                        dosing and     administration
advantages) not possible with polyclonal antibody mixtures.
The present invention provides vertebrates and cells, such as transgenic mice or rats or transgenic
mouse or rat cells. Furthermore, the invention relates to methods of using the vertebrates to isolate
antibodies or nucleotide sequences encoding antibodies. Antibodies,                      nucleotide sequences,
pharmaceutical compositions and uses are also provided by the invention.
To this end, the present invention provides, in a first configuration
A non-human vertebrate (optionally a mouse or a rat) or vertebrate cell whose genome comprises:
(a)          An immunoglobulin heavy chain locus comprising one or more human V gene segments
             (optionally a plurality of VH), one or more human D gene segments and one or more human J
             gene segments upstream of a constant region; optionally wherein the heavy chain locus is
             according to (a) of the second configuration described below; and (b) An immunoglobulin light
             chain locus comprising either
             (i)            one or more human VH gene segments and one or more human J gene segments
                            upstream of a constant region (optionally a rearranged VHJLCL or VHJACL, wherein
                            the CL is C or CK); or
             (ii)           one or more human VL gene segments, one or more human D gene segments and
                            one or 10 more human JH gene segments upstream of a constant region (optionally
                            a rearranged VLDJHCL or VADJHCL, wherein the CL is C or CK); or
             (iii)          one or more human VL gene segments selected from the group consisting of: a VJI
                            gene family member, VAVII 4A, VJI 2.1, VAVII 4A, a VA1 gene family member, a
                            VA3gene family member, IGLV1S2, VA3-cML70, lalh2, lalvl, la3h3, Kv325, a VKI
                            gene family member, KI-15A (KLO12), VKII family member, a VKIII family member, a
                            VKI gene family member, KI-15A (KLO12), VKII A2 (optionally the A2a allele), VK A27
                            (Humkv325) and a gene segment at least 80% identical thereto, and one or more
                            human JL gene segments upstream of a constant region; optionally the one or more
                            VL gene segments are selected from List Al, A2, A1.1, A1.2, A2.1, A2.2, A2.3 or
                            A2.4 below.
             Wherein the gene segments in the heavy chain locus are operably linked to the constant
             region thereof, and the gene segments in the light chain locus are operably linked to the
             constant region thereof, so that upon immunisation the mouse is capable of producing an
             antibody comprising heavy chains produced by recombination of the heavy chain locus and
             light chains produced by recombination of the light chain locus.
                                                            17
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

This configuration of the invention, thus, provides for the possibility of novel, synthetic antibody and
gene repertoires in a transgenic non-human vertebrate, such as a mouse or rat. Such new repertoires
are desirable, since they provide for the possibility of a novel pool of antibodies from which lead
antibodies can be selected following immunisation of the vertebrate with a predetermined antigen.
This, therefore, provides for a pool from which antibodies with desirable characteristics can be
isolated, for example, antibodies with relatively high affinity for specific target antigen binding. It is
desirable to isolate high affinity antibodies directly from the immunised vertebrate, since this can
provide for an antibody lead that is potentially useful as a therapeutic and/or prophylactic medicament
without the need for further extensive affinity maturation (eg, by in vitro antibody display such as
ribosome display or phage display). Modification of the effector portions of the antibody can be made
as desired (eg, humanisation of the constant region), without the need to manipulate the sequences
of the variable regions. Alternatively, or additionally, the 5 pool of antibodies may allow for selection of
a lead antibody with desirable biophysical characteristics and/or epitope specificity. The latter may be
important for finding lead antibodies against epitopes that have not previously raised therapeutic
and/or prophylactic antibodies or epitopes that are difficult to reach by antibodies generated by
antibody gene diversities generated by prior non-human vertebrates bearing transgenic
immunoglobulin loci, eg, those based on the 10 single human genome represented by the RPCI-1 1
BACs.
The cells of the invention (according to any aspect or configuration) is, for example, a B-cell,
hybridoma or a stem cell, optionally an embryonic stem cell or haematopoietic stem cell. In one
aspect the ES cell is derived from the mouse C57BL/6N, C57BL/6J, 129S5 or 129Sv strain. In one
aspect the non-human vertebrate is a rodent, suitably a mouse, and cells of the invention, are rodent
cells or ES cells, suitably mouse ES cells. The ES cells of the present invention can be used to
generate animals using techniques well known in the art, which comprise injection of the ES cell into
a blastocyst followed by implantation of chimaeric blastocystys into females to produce offspring
which can be bred and selected for homozygous recombinants having the required insertion. In one
aspect the invention relates to a transgenic animal comprised of ES cell-derived tissue and host
embryo derived tissue. In one aspect the invention relates to genetically-altered subsequent
generation animals, which include animals having a homozygous recombinants for the VDJ and/or VJ
regions.
Vertebrates bearing one or more light chain loci according to (b)(i) and (ii) provide for novel and
potentially expanded antibody and gene repertoires by exploiting synthetic, non-naturally-occurring,
combinations of immunoglobulin gene segments (V, D, J, C). In this respect, the present inventors
have realised the desirability and possibility of providing for antibody and gene repertoires that mix
heavy chain gene segments with those of light chain loci. This is based on observations of the
inventors: Firstly, nature suggests the possibility of functional antibodies having VH-VH or VL-VL
pairings (as opposed to more classical VH-VL pairings). For example, reference is made to heavy
chain antibodies of Camelidae which produce antibodies with paired VH domains and is devoid of
light chain VL domains (eg, see Nature. 1993 Jun 3;363(6428):446-8; Naturally occurring antibodies
devoid of light chains; Hamers-Casterman C, Atarhouch T, Muyldermans S, Robinson G, Hamers C,
Songa EB, Bendahman N, Hamers R). These antibodies function to specifically bind antigen, such
antibodies being found in the blood of such Camelidae (eg, llamas, camels, alpacas). Such
antibodies with VH pairs can also be synthetically produced to provide therapeutic and prophylactic
                                                      18
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

medicaments (eg, see W01994004678, W02004041862, W02004041863). Transgenic mice also
can produce such heavy chain antibodies and the in vivo production of the antibodies allows the
mouse's immune system to select for VH-VH pairings, sometimes selecting for such pairings in which
mutations have been introduced in vivo by the mouse to accommodate the pairing 10
(W02010109165A2). Thus, the inventors realised that the adoption of an in vivo antibody production
system (rather than an in vitro system such as phage or ribosome display of antibodies) is desirable
to accommodate the synthetic immunoglobulin                    gene segment combinations that are now
contemplated by the present invention.
A second observation of the present inventors lies in the architecture of naturally-occurring
immunoglobulin loci, and in particular the arrangement of recombination signal sequences (RSSs)
that mediate V(D)J recombination in vivo (see, eg, Cell. 2002 Apr;109 Suppl:S45-55. The mechanism
and regulation of chromosomal V(D)J recombination; Bassing CH, Swat W, Alt FW, the disclosure of
which is incorporated herein by reference). As illustrated in Fig. 6, two types of RSS 20 element have
been identified: a one-turn RSS (12-RSS) and a two-turn RSS (23-RSS). In natural VJ recombination
in the lambda light chain locus, recombination if effected between a two-turn RSS that lies 3' of a V
lambda and a one-turn RSS that lies 5' of a J lambda, the RSSs being in opposite orientation. In
natural VJ recombination in the kappa light chain locus, recombination if effected between a one-turn
RSS that lies 3' of a V kappa and a two-turn RSS that lies 5' of a J kappa, the RSSs 25 being in
opposite orientation. In natural VD recombination in the heavy chain locus, recombination if effected
between a two-turn RSS that lies 3' of a VH and a one-turn RSS that lies 5' of a D, the RSSs being in
opposite orientation. In natural DJ recombination in the heavy chain locus, recombination if effected
between a one-turn RSS that lies 3' of a D and a two-turn RSS that lies 5' of a JH, the RSSs being in
opposite orientation. Thus, generally a two-turn RSS is compatible with a one-turn RSS in the
opposite orientation. The inventors realised that they could use this observation in constructing
transgenic immunoglobulin loci such that a 5' gene segment can recombine with a 3' gene segment
(eg, a V with a J; or a V with a D) when there is provided a two-turn RSS and a one-turn RSS in the
opposite orientation, with each RSS adjacent a respective one of the gene segments. Thus, the
inventors realised in one embodiment that an immunoglobulin locus can be constructed with one or
more of the following arrangements (5' to 3'):
(k)          [V (heavy, lambda or kappa)] - [two-turn RSS] -           [one-turn RSS] - [D] - [JH], wherein said
             RSSs 5 are in an opposite orientation;
(I)          [VH] - [D] - [two-turn RSS]  -      [one-turn RSS]  -   [J lambda], wherein said RSSs are in an
             opposite orientation;
(m)          [VH] - [D] - [one-turn RSS]    -     [two-turn RSS]   -  [J kappa], wherein said RSSs are in an
             opposite orientation;
(n)          [VH or V kappa] - [two-turn RSS] -      [one-turn RSS] - [J lambda], wherein said RSSs are in an
             opposite orientation;
(o)          [V kappa] - [one-turn RSS] -     [two-turn RSS] - [JH or J lambda], wherein said RSSs are in an
             opposite orientation;
                                                           19
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

(p)          [V (heavy, lambda or kappa)] - [one-turn RSS] - [two-turn RSS] - [D] - [JH], wherein said
             RSSs are in an opposite orientation; (q) [VH] - [D] - [one-turn RSS] - [two-turn RSS] - [J
             lambda], wherein said RSSs are in an opposite orientation;
(r)          [VH] - [D] - [two-turn RSS] -    [one-turn RSS] - [J kappa], wherein said RSSs are in an
             opposite orientation;
(s)          [VH or V kappa] - [one-turn RSS] -   [two-turn RSS] - [J lambda], wherein said RSSs are in an
             opposite orientation;
(t)          [V kappa] - [two-turn RSS] -  [one-turn RSS] - [JH or J lambda], wherein said RSSs are in an
             opposite orientation.
The skilled person will realise that standard molecular biology techniques can be used to provide
vectors comprising synthetic combinations of RSS with V, D or J for use in this aspect of the
invention, such that the vectors can be used to build a transgenic immunoglobulin locus (eg, using
homologous recombination and/or recombinase mediated cassette exchange as known in the art, 30
eg, see US7501552 (Medarex), US5939598 (Abgenix), US6130364 (Abgenix), W002/066630
(Regeneron), W02011004192 (Genome Research Limited), W02009076464, W02009143472 and
W02010039900 (Ablexis), the disclosures of which are explicitly incorporated herein. For example,
such synthetic combinations with RSS and gene segments can be made using standard
recombineering techniques in E coli to construct BAC vectors harbouring the synthetic combination
prior to insertion in embryonic stem cells using homologous recombination or RMCE (eg, using
cre/lox site-specific recombination). Details of recombineering can be found at www.genebridges.com
and in EP1034260 and EP1204740 the disclosures of which are explicitly incorporated herein.
In one embodiment of (b)(i), all of the light chain locus V gene segments are human VH gene
segments (optionally with one or more human V lambda gene segments).
In one embodiment of (b)(i), the constant region is a mouse, rat or human CL, eg, CA. In one 10
embodiment, the J and constant regions are provided by one or more human JACA.
Although having utility generally to any antigen and disease setting, vertebrates bearing one or more
light chain loci according to (b)(iii) are useful, in particular, for generating antibody leads against
infectious disease pathogens. In this respect, the present inventors have realised the desirability 15
and possibility of providing for antibody and gene repertoires that are biased to immunoglobulin gene
segments commonly found in natural antibody reactions of humans to infectious disease pathogens.
The inventors realised that it would be desirable to provide for vertebrates, cells, methods etc for the
production of therapeutic and/or prophylactic antibodies based on natural human immune responses
to antigens, such as antigens of infectious disease pathogens. In this 20 respect, the literature
observes frequently used immunoglobulin gene segments to raise anti- infective responses in
humans (Table 1).
                                                       20
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

Table 1: Immunoglobulin Gene Usage in Human Antibody Responses to Infectious Disease
Pathogens
  V GENE                                    ANTIGEN           ORGANISM    REFERENCES
                                                                          (Human Ab Source)
                                                BACTERIAL PATHOGENS
  KAPPA V GENES                             Haemophilus       Haemophilus 1. Lonberg,           Nat
                                            influenzae type b influenzae     Biotech
  * Vk II germline gene A2 +                polysaccharide                   2005;[human
      JK3                                   (Hib PS)                         PBMCs]
  * Vk II family gene + JK4                                               2. Adderson et al, J
                                                                             Clin Invest 1992;
  * 94% identical to the A27
                                                                             [Human PBLs]
      (Humkv325) germ line
      gene                                                                3. Chung    et    al,   J
                                                                             Immunol 1993
  *A         Vkl          gene      family
      member; kl - 15A (KL012)                                            4. Nadel   et     al,   J
                                                                             Immunol 1998
  LAMBDA V G ENES
                                    family                                5. Feeney       et al,
   * Four          VA         VII
                                                                             Infect        Immun
      members that are 96-98%                                                1994;       [Human
      identical to each other
                                                                             PBLs]
  * VA Il            family members                                       6. Lucas et al, Infect
      (82,89               and        91%                                    Immun          1994;
      homologous                to VA2.1                                     [Human PBLs]
      gene) + VHIII segments
      closely homologous                to                                7. Adderson et al, J
      germline gene 9.1                                                      Clin Invest 1993;
                                                                             [Human PBLs]
  * V, VII 4A
                                                                          8. Granoff et al, Clin
  " All with JA homologous to                                                Invest         1993;
      germline JA2 and JA3
                                                                             [human PBLs]
  VH GENES                                                                9. Azmi et al, Infect
  * VH 96% identical to the                                                  Immun          1994;
                               line gene                                     [human          tonsil
      VH        germ
      segment DP77 (V3-21)                                                   cells]
  * LSG6.1,             LSG12.1,      VHIII
                                                           21
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

      VH26, VHIII 9.1
  VH                    and          VL
  COMBINATIONS
  * VHIII 9.1 + VVII 4A
  * VHIII 9.1 + VII 2.1
  * VHIII 9.1 + VKII A2
  * VHIII VH26 + V112.1
  * VHIII 9.1; VHIII H11; VHIII          9 Polysaccharide     9 E coli K1          9. Azmi et al, Infect
      VH26                                 capsule of E coli                          Immun 1994
                                           K1
  * kl 15A                               9 Meningococcal B    9 Neisseria
                                           polysaccharide;      meningitidis
  * VA2.1                                  Polya [a(2-8)-N-     Group B
                                           acetylneuramic
                                           acid
                                               VIRAL PATHOGENS
  * VHIII          or      VHIV   family 9 HSV       120-kD   9 Herpes      family 10. Huang et al, J
      member                               glycoprotein         virus                   Clin Invest 1992;
                                                                                        [human tonsils]
  * VAI or VA3 member                    9 116-105-64    kD   9 Herpes    simplex
                                           glycoproteins   of   virus      (HSV);
  * VH26 + DK1 + JH6 with                  VZV                  HSV-1; HSV-2
      IGLV1 S2 + JA2
                                                              9 Varicella zoster
  * VH4.18                                                      virus (VZV)
  * VH2-1 (VH3) + D region
      Dxp'1 + JH5 with VA3
      cML70 + JA3
  * VH1GRR + JH3 +Dn4r or
      D2r with IGLV1S2 + JA2
  * For VZV Abs: ha3h2
      (VH3) with lalh2 (VA); or
      halc1 (VH1) with lalvl
      (VA1)
                                                          22
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

  * For VZV Abs: ha4h3
      (VH4) with la3h3 (VA3)
  * Hv1051(VH)                                            e  Cytomegaloviru   10.  Huang et al, J
                                                             s (CMV)               Clin Invest 1992;
  * Kv325 (Vk)
  * 71-2 (VH)                                            HIV                  10.  Huang et al, J
                                                                                   Clin Invest 1992;
  * Hv1f10 (VH)
                                                                              11.  Wang & Palese,
  * VH4.11                                                                         Science 2011
  * 71-4 (VH)
  * VH251
  * VH1-69
  * VH1-69                           Haemagglutinin      Influenza virus, eg, 12.  Ekiert et al,
                                     (HA)                Group 1 and/or            Science 2009
                                                         Group 2 Infulenza
                                                         A virus; eg, H1N1,   13.  Throsby et al,
                                                         H2N2,             or      PLoS One 2008
                                                         H3N2orH7N2orH7
                                                         N7 influenza virus   14.  Sui et al, Nat
                                                                                   Struct Mol Biol
                                                                                   2009
                                                                              15.  Ekiert et al,
                                                                                   Science 2011
References:
1.           Nat Biotechnol. 2005 Sep;23(9):1117-25; Human antibodies from transgenic animals;
             Lonberg N.
2.           J Clin Invest. 1992 Mar;89(3):729-38; Immunoglobulin light chain variable region gene
             sequences for human antibodies to Haemophilus influenzae type b capsular polysaccharide
             are dominated by a limited number of V kappa and V lambda segments and VJ combinations;
             Adderson EE, Shackelford PG, Insel RA, Quinn A, Wilson PM, Carroll WL.
3.           J Immunol. 1993 Oct 15;151(8):4352-61; Clonal characterization of the human IgG antibody
             repertoire to Haemophilus influenzae type b polysaccharide. V. In vivo expression of
                                                     23
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

             individual antibody clones is dependent on Ig CH haplotypes and the categories of antigen;
             Chung GH, Scott MG, Kim KH, Kearney J, Siber GR, Ambrosino DM, Nahm MH.
4.           J Immunol. 1998 Dec 1;161(11):6068-73; Decreased frequency of rearrangement due to the
             synergistic effect of nucleotide changes in the heptamer and nonamer of the recombination
             signal sequence of the V kappa gene A2b, which is associated with increased susceptibility of
             Navajos to Haemophilus influenzae type b disease; Nadel B, Tang A, Lugo G, Love V, Escuro
             G, Feeney AJ.
5.           J Clin Invest. 1996 May 15;97(10):2277-82; A defective Vkappa A2 allele in Navajos which
             may play a role in increased susceptibility to haemophilus influenzae type b disease; Feeney
             AJ, Atkinson MJ, Cowan MJ, Escuro G, Lugo G.
6.           Infect Immun. 1994 Sep;62(9):3873-80; Variable region sequences of a protective human
             monoclonal antibody specific for the Haemophilus influenzae type b capsular polysaccharide;
             Lucas AH, Larrick JW, Reason DC.
7.           J Clin Invest. 1993 Jun;91(6):2734-43; Restricted immunoglobulin VH usage and VDJ
             combinations in the human response to Haemophilus influenzae type b capsular
             polysaccharide. Nucleotide sequences of monospecific anti-Haemophilus antibodies and
             polyspecific antibodies cross-reacting with self antigens; Adderson EE, Shackelford PG,
             Quinn A, Wilson PM, Cunningham MW, Insel RA, Carroll WL.
8.           J Clin Invest. 1993 Mar;91(3):788-96; Variable region expression in the antibody responses of
             infants vaccinated with Haemophilus influenzae type b polysaccharide-protein conjugates.
             Description of a new lambda light chain-associated idiotype and the relation between idiotype
             expression, avidity, and vaccine formulation. The Collaborative Vaccine Study Group; Granoff
             DM, Shackelford PG, Holmes SJ, Lucas AH.
9.           Infect Immun. 1994 May;62(5):1776-86; Variable region sequences and idiotypic expression
             of a protective human immunoglobulin M antibody to capsular polysaccharides of Neisseria
             meningitidis group B and Escherichia coli K1; Azmi FH, Lucas AH, Raff HV, Granoff DM.
 10.         J Clin Invest. 1992 Dec;90(6):2197-208; Sequence analyses of three immunoglobulin G
             anti-virus antibodies reveal their utilization of autoantibody-related immunoglobulin Vh genes,
             but not V lambda genes; Huang DF, Olee T, Masuho Y, Matsumoto Y, Carson DA, Chen PP.
 11.         Science. 2011 Aug 12;333(6044):834-5, Biochemistry. Catching a moving target, Wang TT,
             Palese P
 12.         Science. 2009 Apr 10;324(5924):246-51. Epub 2009 Feb 26; Antibody recognition of a highly
             conserved influenza virus epitope; Ekiert DC, Bhabha G, Elsliger MA, Friesen RH,
             Jongeneelen M, Throsby M, Goudsmit J, Wilson IA.
 13.         PLoS One. 2008;3(12):e3942. Epub 2008 Dec 16; Heterosubtypic neutralizing monoclonal
             antibodies cross-protective against H5N1 and H1N1 recovered from human IgM+ memory B
                                                          24
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

             cells; Throsby M, van den Brink E, Jongeneelen M, Poon LL, Alard P, Cornelissen L, Bakker
             A, Cox F, van Deventer E, Guan Y, Cinatl J, ter Meulen J, Lasters I, Carsetti R, Peiris M, de
             Kruif J, Goudsmit J.
14.          Nat Struct Mol Biol. 2009 Mar;16(3):265-73. Epub 2009 Feb 22,Structural and functional
             bases for broad-spectrum neutralization of avian and human influenza A viruses, Sui J,
             Hwang WC, Perez S, Wei G, Aird D, Chen LM, Santelli E, Stec B, Cadwell G, Ali M, Wan H,
             Murakami A, Yammanuru A, Han T, Cox NJ, Bankston LA, Donis RO, Liddington RC,
             Marasco WA.
15.          Science. 2011 Aug 12;333(6044):843-50. Epub 2011 Jul 7, A highly conserved neutralizing
             epitope on group 2 influenza A viruses, Ekiert DC, Friesen RH, Bhabha G, Kwaks T,
             Jongeneelen M, Yu W, Ophorst C, Cox F, Korse HJ, Brandenburg B, Vogels R, Brakenhoff
             JP, Kompier R, Koldijk MH, Cornelissen LA, Poon LL, Peiris M, Koudstaal W, Wilson IA,
             Goudsmit J.
In one embodiment, in (b)(i) the J gene segments of the light chain locus are Jx gene segments and
optionally the constant region of the light chain locus is a lambda constant region; or in (b)(ii) the VL is
a Vx and optionally the constant region of the light chain locus is a lambda constant region.
Alternatively, the constant region is C kappa.
In one embodiment, in (b)(i) the V gene segment repertoire of the light chain locus comprises or
consists of one or more VH gene segments selected from the group consisting of: a VHIII gene family
member (optionally, a VHIIIa or VHIIIb family member), a VHIV gene family member, VHIII 9.1 (VH3
15), VHIII VH26 (VH3-23), VH3-21, LSG6.1, LSG12.1, DP77 (V3-21), VH H11, VH1GRR, ha3h2,
VHI-halcl, VHIII-VH2-1, VH4.18, ha4h3, Hv1051, 71-2, Hv1f10, VH4.11, 71-4, VH251, VH1-69 and a
gene segment at least 80% identical thereto. These gene segments are useful because they expand
the repertoire in vivo to VH gene segments that are found in natural human immune responses to
antigens, such as antigens of infectious disease pathogens. This is useful, for example, when the
vertebrate is immunised with an antigen of an infectious disease pathogen, for generation and
isolation of an antibody for treating and/or preventing a disease or condition mediated by said
pathogen. In one example, in (b)(i) the V gene segment repertoire of the light chain locus comprises
or consists of only VH gene segment selected from the group consisting of: a VHIII gene family
member (optionally, a VHIIIa or VHIIIb family member), a VHIV gene family member, VHIII 9.1 (VH3
15), VHIII VH26 (VH3-23), VH3-21, LSG6.1, LSG12.1, DP77 (V3-21), VH H11, VH1GRR, ha3h2,
VHI-halcl, VHIII-VH2-1, VH4.18, ha4h3, Hv1051, 71-2, Hv1f10, VH4.11, 71-4, VH251, VH1-69 and a
gene segment at least 80% identical thereto. This is useful to bias the immune response of the
vertebrate (and thus resultant lead antibodies) to a predetermined gene segment, eg, one known to
be commonly used in natural human immune responses to antigens, such as antigens of infectious
disease pathogens. For example, VH1-69 is commonly used to produce antibodies in humans against
Infulenza virus (see Table 1); it is possible, therefore, to confine the single VH segment to VH1-69 in
embodiment (b)(i) of the invention.
                                                     25
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

In one embodiment, in (b)(iii) the light chain locus V gene segment repertoire      consists of only one
(optionally only two, three or four) VL gene segment type (optionally and one       or mutants thereof),
wherein the VL gene segment is selected from said group of VL gene segments.        This is useful to bias
the immune response of the vertebrate (and thus resultant lead antibodies) to a     predetermined gene
segment, eg, one known to be commonly used in natural human immune responses to antigens, such
as antigens of infectious disease pathogens.
In one embodiment, in (a) said constant region is a heavy chain endogenous non-human vertebrate
(optionally host mouse or rat) constant region and/or in (b) said constant region is a light chain
endogenous non-human vertebrate (optionally host mouse or rat) constant region.
In one embodiment in any configuration of the invention, the genome has been modified to prevent or
reduce the expression of fully-endogenous antibody. Examples of suitable techniques for doing this
can be found in PCT/GB2010/051122, US7501552, US6673986, US6130364, W02009/076464,
EP1399559 and US6586251, the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference. In one
embodiment, the non-human vertebrate VDJ region of the endogenous heavy chain immunoglobulin
locus, and optionally VJ region of the endogenous light chain immunoglobulin loci (lambda and/or
kappa loci), have been inactivated. For example, all or part of the non-human vertebrate VDJ region
is inactivated by inversion in the endogenous heavy chain immunoglobulin locus of the mammal,
optionally with the inverted region being moved upstream or downstream of the endogenous Ig locus
(see, eg, W02011004192, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference). For example,
all or part of the non-human vertebrate VJ region is inactivated by inversion in the endogenous kappa
chain immunoglobulin locus of the mammal, optionally with the inverted region being moved upstream
or downstream of the endogenous Ig locus. For example, all or part of the non-human vertebrate VJ
region is inactivated by inversion in the endogenous lambda chain immunoglobulin locus of the
mammal, optionally with the inverted region being moved upstream or downstream of the
endogenous Ig locus. In one embodiment the endogenous heavy chain locus is inactivated in this way
as is one or both of the endogenous kappa and lambda loci.
Additionally or alternatively, the vertebrate has been generated in a genetic background which
prevents the production of mature host B and T lymphocytes, optionally a RAG-1-deficient and/or
RAG-2 deficient background. See US5859301 for techniques of generating RAG-1 deficient animals.
Thus, in one embodiment of any configuration or aspect of the invention herein, endogenous heavy
and light chain expression has been inactivated.
In a second configuration of the invention, there is provided
A non-human vertebrate (optionally a mouse or a rat) or vertebrate cell whose genome comprises:
(a)          An immunoglobulin heavy chain locus comprising one or more human V gene segments (eg,
             a plurality of VH), one or more human D gene segments and one or more human J gene
             segments upstream of a constant region; and
(b)          (i) An unrearranged immunoglobulin light chain locus comprising one or more human VH
             gene segments and one or more human J gene segments upstream of a constant region,
                                                     26
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

             wherein each human VH gene segment is a human gene segment identical to (or mutant of,
             eg, having up to 15 or 10 nucleotide changes from the human gene segment) a human VH
             gene segment (eg, a germline VH gene segment; eg, a gene segment selected from List Al,
             A2, Al.1, A1.2, A2.1, A2.2, A2.3 or A2.4 below.) used to produce a rearranged VDJ encoding
             a heavy chain variable region of a human antibody from an antibody-expressing cell wherein
             said antibody binds to an antigen of an infectious disease pathogen (optionally the variable
             regions of said antibody being identical to an antibody from a human individual suffering,
             susceptible to, or recovered from, a disease or condition caused or mediated by an organism
             harbouring or secreting said antigen; or from a human individual harbouring said organism);
             or
             (ii)           An immunoglobulin light chain locus comprising a rearranged VJ region or VDJ
                            region upstream of a constant region, wherein the nucleotide sequence of the
                            recombined region is identical to a nucleotide sequence produced by the
                            recombination of a human J gene segment and optionally a human D gene segment
                            with a human VH gene segment that is identical to (or mutant of; eg, having up to 15
                            or 10 nucleotide changes from the human gene segment)) the human VH gene
                            segment (eg, germline VH gene segment; eg, a gene segment selected from List Al,
                            A2, A1.1, A1.2, A2.1, A2.2, A2.3 or A2.4 below.) used to produce a rearranged VDJ
                            encoding a heavy chain variable region of a human antibody from an antibody
                            expressing cell wherein said antibody binds to an antigen of an infectious disease
                            pathogen (optionally the variable regions of said antibody being identical to an
                            antibody from a human individual suffering, susceptible to, or recovered from, a
                            disease or condition caused or mediated by an organism harbouring or secreting said
                            antigen; or from a human individual harbouring said organism);
(c)          Wherein the gene segments in the heavy chain locus are operably linked to the constant
             region thereof, and the gene segments or VJ or VDJ in the light chain locus are operably
             linked to the constant region thereof, so that upon immunisation the mouse is capable of
             producing an antibody comprising heavy chains produced by recombination of the heavy
             chain locus and light chains derived from the light chain locus;
(d)          Optionally when (b)(i) applies, each said VH gene segment in the light chain locus is selected
             from the group consisting of: a VHIII gene family member (optionally, a VHIlla or VHIllb family
             member), a VHIV gene family member, VHIII 9.1 (VH3-15), VHIII VH26 (VH3-23), VH3- 21,
             LSG6.1, LSG12.1, DP77 (V3-21), VH Hll, VH1GRR, ha3h2, VHI-halcl, VHIII-VH2-1,
             VH4.18, ha4h3, Hvl05l, 71-2, Hvlfl0, VH4.11, 71-4, VH251, VH1-69 and a gene segment
             at least 80% identical thereto; optionally each VH gene segment is selected from List Al, A2,
             Al.1, A1.2, A2.1, A2.2, A2.3 or A2.4 below.
(e)          Optionally when (b)(ii) applies, the nucleotide sequence of the recombined region is identical
             to a nucleotide sequence produced by the recombination of a human J gene segment and
             optionally a human D gene segment with a human VH gene segment selected from the group
             consisting of: a VHIII gene family member (optionally, a VHIlla or VHIllb family member), a
             VHIV gene family member, VHIII 9.1 (VH3-15), VHIII VH26 (VH3-23), VH3- 21, LSG6.1,
                                                             27
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

             LSG12.1, DP77 (V3-21), VH H1l, VH1GRR, ha3h2, VHI-halcl, VHIII-VH2-1, VH4.18, ha4h3,
             Hv1051, 71-2, Hvlfl0, VH4.11, 71-4, VH251, VH1-69 and a gene segment at least 80%
             identical thereto; optionally each VH gene segment is selected from List Al, A2, Al.1, A1.2,
             A2.1, A2.2, A2.3 or A2.4 below.
In one embodiment, the antigen is an antigen expressed by a bacterial or viral infectious disease
pathogen, eg, any of the pathogens listed in Table 1. For example, the antigen is an antigen selected
from the antigens listed in Table 1.
In one embodiment of any aspect, configuration or embodiment of the invention herein, the "human
individual harbouring said organism" is a patient that has natural resistance to the pathogen and
produces antibodies that bind to the pathogen or an antigen expressed thereby.
In one embodiment of the second configuration, the J gene segments of the light chain locus are JA
gene segments and optionally the constant region of the light chain locus is a lambda constant region.
Alternatively, the constant region is C kappa.
In one embodiment of the second configuration, the V gene segment repertoire of the light chain
locus comprises or consists of one or more VH gene segments selected from the group consisting of:
a VHIII gene family member (optionally, a VHIIIa or VHIIIb family member), a VHIV gene family
member, VHIII 9.1 (VH3-15), VHIII VH26 (VH3-23), VH3-21, LSG6.1, LSG12.1, DP77 (V3-21), VH
H1l, VH1GRR, ha3h2, VHI-halcl, VHIII-VH2-1, VH4.18, ha4h3, Hvl05l, 71-2, HvlflO, VH4.11, 71
4, VH251, VH1-69 and a gene segment at least 80% identical thereto. These gene segments are
useful because they expand the repertoire in vivo to VH gene segments that are found in natural
human immune responses to antigens, such as antigens of infectious disease pathogens. This is
useful, for example, when the vertebrate is immunised with an antigen of an infectious disease
pathogen, for generation and isolation of an antibody for treating and/or preventing a disease or
condition mediated by said pathogen. In one example, in (b)(i) the V gene segment repertoire of the
light chain locus comprises or consists of only VH gene segment selected from the group consisting
of: a VHIII gene family member (optionally, a VHIIIa or VHIIIb family member), a VHIV gene family
member, VHIII 9.1 (VH3- 15), VHIII VH26 (VH3-23), VH3-21, LSG6.1, LSG12.1, DP77 (V3-21), VH
H1l, VH1GRR, ha3h2, VHI-halcl, VHIII-VH2-1, VH4.18, ha4h3, Hvl05l, 71-2, HvlflO, VH4.11, 71
4, VH251, VH1-69 and a gene segment at least 80% identical thereto. This is useful to bias the
immune response of the vertebrate (and thus resultant lead antibodies) to a predetermined gene
segment, eg, one known to be commonly used in natural human immune responses to antigens, such
as antigens of infectious disease pathogens. For example, VH1-69 is commonly used to produce
antibodies in humans against Infulenza virus (see Table 1); it is possible, therefore, to confine the
single VH segment to VH1-69 in embodiment (b)(i) of the invention.
In one embodiment of the second configuration, in (a) said constant region is a heavy chain
endogenous non-human vertebrate (optionally host mouse or rat) constant region.
In one embodiment of the second configuration, in (b) said constant region is a light chain
endogenous non-human vertebrate (optionally host mouse or rat) constant region.
                                                      28
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

In one embodiment of the second configuration, the genome of said vertebrate or cell is homozygous
for light chain locus (b)(i) or (ii); optionally wherein:
-            the V gene segment repertoire of the light chain loci consists of one or more human VH gene
             segments selected from the group consisting of: a VHIII gene family member (optionally, a
             VHIIIa or VHIIIb family member), a VHIV gene family member, VHIII 9.1 (VH3-15), VHIII
             VH26 (VH3-23), VH3- 21, LSG6.1, LSG12.1, DP77 (V3-21), VH H11, VH1GRR, ha3h2, VHI
             halc1, VHIII-VH2-1, VH4.18, ha4h3, Hv1051, 71-2, Hv1f10, VH4.11, 71-4, VH251, VH1-69
             and a gene segment at least 80% identical thereto; or
-            the recombined VJ or VDJ repertoire of the light chain loci consists of sequences identical to
             one or more nucleotide sequences produced by the recombination of a human VH gene
             segment selected from the group consisting of: a VHIII gene family member (optionally, a
             VHIIIa or VHIIIb family member), a VHIV gene family member, VHIII 9.1 (VH3-15), VHIII
             VH26 (VH3-23), VH3-21, LSG6.1, LSG12.1, DP77 (V3-21), VH H11, VH1GRR, ha3h2, VHI
             halc1, VHIII-VH2-1, VH4.18, ha4h3, Hv1051, 71-2, Hv1f1O, VH4.11, 71-4, VH251, VH1-69
             and a gene segment at least 80% identical thereto, with a human J gene segment and
             optionally a human D gene segment. In one embodiment, all of the light chain locus V gene
             segments are from this group.
In one embodiment of the second configuration, endogenous heavy and light chain expression has
been inactivated, and wherein light chain loci according to the second configuration are the only
functional light chain loci in the genome of the vertebrate or cell.
In one embodiment of the second configuration, each immunoglobulin light chain locus of said
vertebrate or cell is according to (b)(i) and comprises only a single human VH gene segment selected
from the group consisting of: a VHIII gene family member (optionally, a VHIIIa or VHIIIb family
member), a VHIV gene family member, VHIII 9.1 (VH3-15), VHIII VH26 (VH3-23), VH3-21, LSG6.1,
LSG12.1, DP77 (V3-21), VH H11, VH1GRR, ha3h2, VHI-halcl, VHIII-VH2-1, VH4.18, ha4h3,
Hv1051, 71-2, HvlflO, VH4.11, 71-4, VH251, VH1-69 and a gene segment at least 80% identical
thereto, optionally wherein the genome of the vertebrate or cell is homozygous for said light chain so
that all light chain loci comprise the same, single human VH gene segment. In this embodiment (and
generally in other embodiments, configurations and aspects of the invention), confinement of heavy
and/or light chain locus architecture is useful for biasing or controlling the antibody and gene
repertoire, eg, to mirror human immune responses as mentioned above. Provision of a single light or
heavy chain variable (and optionally D and/or J) gene segment (or only this with closely related
mutants thereof) - or confinement in embodiments below to a single rearranged V(D)J region or single
heavy or light chain - is advantageous for simplifying the expression and production of
therapeutic/prophylactic antibodies since this restricts the number of antibody species produced
during downstream manufacture. A common heavy or light chain is advantageous to enable co
expression of a plurality (eg, two, three or more) different antibodies in the same expression medium,
for example from the same host cell. See, eg, EP1523496 (Merus BV) and W02011097603
(Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc).
                                                        29
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

In one embodiment of the second configuration, each immunoglobulin light chain locus of said
vertebrate or cell is according to (b)(ii) and comprises only a single rearranged VJ or VDJ region,
optionally wherein the genome of the vertebrate or cell is homozygous for said light chain so that all
light chain loci comprise the same, single rearranged VJ or VDJ region.
In one embodiment of the second configuration, each immunoglobulin light chain locus further
comprises a VH gene segment or rearranged region that is a mutant (eg, having up to 15 or 10
nucleotide changes from the VH gene segment) respectively of said selected human VH gene
segment or rearranged region, optionally wherein the genome of the vertebrate or cell is homozygous
for said light chain mutant VH gene segment or rearranged region.
In one embodiment of the second configuration, each immunoglobulin light chain locus comprises
only two or three human VH gene segments selected from said group, optionally wherein the genome
of the vertebrate or cell is homozygous for said two or three light chain human VH gene segments.
In one embodiment of the second configuration, each immunoglobulin light chain locus comprises
only two or three of said rearranged VJ or VDJ regions, optionally wherein the genome of the
vertebrate or cell is homozygous for said two or three light chain rearranged VJ or VDJ regions.
The invention provides a monoclonal or polyclonal antibody composition prepared by immunisation of
at least one vertebrate (eg, mouse or rat) according to any configuration, aspect or embodiment of the
invention, optionally wherein the antigen is an antigen of an infectious disease pathogen (eg, a
bacterial or viral pathogen antigen or an antigen listed in Table 1), optionally wherein the same
antigen is used to immunise all the vertebrates; optionally wherein the antibody or antibodies are IgG
type (eg, IgG1).
The invention provides a first method of isolating an antibody that binds a predetermined antigen (eg,
a bacterial or viral pathogen antigen or an antigen listed in Table 1), the method comprising
(a)          providing a vertebrate (optionally a mouse or rat) according to according to any configuration,
             aspect or embodiment of the invention;
(b)          immunising (eg, using a standard prime-boost method) said vertebrate with said antigen
             (optionally wherein the antigen is an antigen of an infectious disease pathogen);
(c)          removing B lymphocytes from the vertebrate and selecting one or more B lymphocytes
             expressing antibodies that bind to the antigen;
(d)          optionally immortalising said selected B lymphocytes or progeny thereof, optionally by
             producing hybridomas therefrom; and
(e)          isolating an antibody (eg, and IgG-type antibody) expressed by the B lymphocytes.
In a first embodiment of the first method of the invention, the method comprises the step of isolating
from said B lymphocytes nucleic acid encoding said antibody that binds said antigen; optionally
exchanging the heavy chain constant region nucleotide sequence of the antibody with a nucleotide
                                                        30
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

sequence encoding a human or humanised heavy chain constant region and optionally affinity
maturing the variable region of said antibody; and optionally inserting said nucleic acid into an
expression vector and optionally a host. The skilled person will be aware of standard molecular
biology techniques to do this. For example, see Harlow, E. & Lane, D. 1998, 5th edition, Antibodies: A
Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring Harbor Lab. Press, Plainview, NY; and Pasqualini and Arap,
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (2004) 101:257-259 for standard immunisation.
Joining of the variable regions of an antibody to a human constant region can be effected by
techniques readily available in the art, such as using conventional recombinant DNA and RNA
technology as will be apparent to the skilled person. See e.g. Sambrook, J and Russell, D. (2001, 3'd
edition) Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual (Cold Spring Harbor Lab. Press, Plainview, NY).
In one embodiment of the first method of the invention, the method comprisesfurther making a mutant
or derivative of the antibody.
A method of producing a polyclonal antibody mixture is provided, the method comprising carrying out
the first method of the invention by separately immunising first and second vertebrates (optionally first
and second mice or first and second rats) with antigen and combining the anti- antigen antibodies
isolated from each vertebrate (or mutants or derivatives of said antibodies) to produce a polyclonal
antibody mixture; optionally wherein the following apply separately or in combination ((i) and (ii); or (i)
and (iii)):
(i)          the vertebrates are immunised with the same antigen or different antigens (optionally wherein
             the different antigens are expressed by the same pathogenic organism (or by family members
             or different strains of the organism));
(ii)         prior to immunisation the light chain loci of the vertebrates contain the identical VH gene
             repertoire (optionally a single VH gene) and optionally the identical J repertoire; optionally the
             light chain loci of the mammals are identical prior to immunisation;
(iii)        prior to immunisation the light chain loci of the vertebrates contain the identical rearranged VJ
             or VDJ repertoire (optionally a single VJ or VDJ); optionally the light chain loci of the
             vertebrates are identical prior to immunisation.
A method of producing a polyclonal antibody mixture is provided, the method comprising carrying out
the first method of the invention by immunising one or a plurality of vertebrates (optionally mice or
rats) with first and second antigens and combining the anti-antigen antibodies isolated from each
vertebrate (or mutants or derivatives of said antibodies) to produce a polyclonal antibody mixture;
optionally wherein the following apply separately or in combination ((i) and (ii); or (i) and (iii)):
(i)          the antigens are expressed by the same pathogenic organism (or by family members or
             different strains of the organism));
(ii)         prior to immunisation the light chain loci of the vertebrates contain the identical VH gene
             repertoire (optionally a single VH gene) and optionally the identical J repertoire; optionally the
             light chain loci of the mammals are identical prior to immunisation;
                                                         31
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

(iii)        prior to immunisation the light chain loci of the vertebrates contain the identical rearranged VJ
             or VDJ repertoire (optionally a single VJ or VDJ); optionally the light chain loci of the
             vertebrates are identical prior to immunisation.
The invention provides a second method:
A method of producing host cells (eg, Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) or HEK293 cells) capable of
expressing a polyclonal antibody mixture is provided, the method comprising, in a method according
to said first embodiment of the first method of the invention:
(a)          immunising one or a plurality of vertebrates (optionally mice or rats) with first and second
             antigens (optionally wherein the different antigens are expressed by the same pathogenic
             organism (or a family member thereof));
(b)          isolating nucleic acid encoding first and second anti-antigen antibodies from B lymphocytes
             from said vertebrates;
(c)          determining the nucleotide sequences of the heavy and light chain variable regions
             (optionally the entire heavy and/or light chain sequences) of the first antibody;
(d)          determining the nucleotide sequence of the heavy variable region and optionally the light
             chain variable region of the second antibody;
(e)          inserting the heavy chain variable region coding sequence of each antibody into a heavy
             chain expression vector; optionally wherein the constant region coding sequence of each
             heavy chain is exchanged for a nucleotide sequence that encodes a human or humanised
             constant region;
(f)          inserting the light chain variable region coding sequence of the first antibody into a light chain
             expression vector; optionally wherein the constant region coding sequence of the light chain
             of the first antibody is exchanged for a nucleotide sequence that encodes a human or
             humanised constant region;
(g)          optionally inserting the light chain variable region coding sequence of the second antibody
             into a light chain expression vector; optionally wherein the constant region coding sequence
             of the light chain of the second antibody is exchanged for a nucleotide sequence that
             encodes a human or humanised constant region; and
(h)          introducing each expression vector into a host cell and co-expressing antibody chains in a
             mixture of said host cells to produce antibodies, each antibody comprising one or both of said
             heavy chain variable regions and a light chain; optionally wherein the expression vectors are
             introduced together into the same host cell (eg, a CHO or HEK293 cell) so that the cell is
             capable of expressing antibody light chains and heavy chains, such that the cell or a plurality
             of the host cells express antibodies (eg, two, three, four or more different antibodies), each
             comprising one or both of said heavy chain variable regions and a light chain;
                                                         32
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

(i)          optionally:
             prior to immunisation the light chain loci of the vertebrates contain the identical VH gene
             repertoire (optionally a single VH gene segment) and optionally the identical J repertoire
             (optionally a single J gene segment); optionally the light chain loci of the vertebrates are
             identical prior to immunisation; or
             prior to immunisation the light chain loci of the vertebrates contain the identical rearranged VJ
             or VDJ repertoire (optionally a single VJ or VDJ); optionally the light chain loci of the
             vertebrates are identical prior to immunisation.
(j)          optionally:
             producing a monoclonal or polyclonal antibody mixture, by expressing a monoclonal antibody
             or polyclonal mixture of said antibodies; optionally followed by isolating an antibody
             comprising the heavy chain variable region of the first and/or second antibodies.
The invention also provides a monoclonal or polyclonal antibody mixture so produced or a derivative
antibody or mixture thereof, eg, where one or more constant region has been changed (eg, replaced
with a different constant region such as a human constant region; or mutated to enhance or ablate Fc
effector function). (optionally the entire heavy and/or light chain sequences)
In any of the methods of the invention, optionally each vertebrate used for immunisation is provided
by
(a)          isolating from a human blood or tissue (eg, B lymphocytes (PBLs), peripheral blood
             mononuclear cells (PBMCs), bone marrow, spleen, tonsil or lymph node) sample a B
             lymphocyte that expresses an antibody that binds a predetermined antigen (eg, an antigen
             expressed by an infectious disease pathogen; optionally wherein said serum or tissue was
             from a human individual suffering, susceptible to, or recovered from, a disease or condition
             caused or mediated by an organism harbouring or secreting said antigen; or from a human
             individual harbouring said organism);
(b)          determining which human germline VH gene segment was recombined in the human to
             produce the nucleotide sequence of said B lymphocyte that encodes the heavy chain variable
             region of the antibody;
(c)          constructing a transgenic vertebrate wherein said human germline VH gene segment is
             provided in a light chain locus thereof according the first or second configuration of the
             invention; and
(d)          providing said transgenic vertebrate for immunisation in the first method of the invention.
The term "Human blood" herein includes a human blood product minus one or more non-B
lymphocyte cellular populations, provided that the product retains antibody-producing cells, eg, PBLs.
                                                         33
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

In an embodiment of the first method of the invention, each vertebrate used for immunisation is
provided by
(a)          isolating from a human blood or tissue (eg, B lymphocytes, PBMCs, bone marrow, spleen,
             tonsil or lymph node) sample a B lymphocyte that expresses an antibody that binds a
             predetermined antigen (eg, an antigen expressed by an infectious disease pathogen;
             optionally wherein said serum or tissue was from a human individual suffering, susceptible to,
             or recovered from, a disease or condition caused or mediated by an organism harbouring or
             secreting said antigen; or from a human individual harbouring said organism);
(b)          determining a nucleotide sequence of said B lymphocyte that encodes a rearranged VDJ or
             VJ region of the antibody;
(c)          constructing a transgenic vertebrate wherein said rearranged VDJ or VJ region is provided in
             a light chain locus thereof according to the first or second configuration of the invention; and
(d)          providing said transgenic vertebrate for immunisation in the first method of the invention.
Common Light Chain Antibodies & Bispecifics (eg, to two pathogen antigens for infectious diseases)
The invention provides an isolated antibody (eg, IgG-type, such as IgG1-type, antibody) obtainable or
obtained by the second method of the invention (including step (j), or a mutant or derivative antibody
thereof wherein (i) the isolated antibody comprises two copies of the heavy chain variable region of
said first antibody paired with two copies of the light chain variable region of said first antibody; or (ii)
the isolated antibody comprises two copies of the heavy chain variable region of said second antibody
paired with two copies of the light chain variable region of said first antibody; or (iii) the isolated
antibody is a bispecific antibody comprising one copy of the heavy chain variable region of said first
antibody paired with a copy of the light chain variable region of the first antibody, and one copy of the
heavy chain variable region of said the antibody paired with a copy of the light chain variable region of
the first antibody, optionally wherein the bispecific antibody binds to said first and second antigens
recited in claim 24; optionally for use in medicine, optionally for the treatment and/or prevention of an
infectious disease.
In an aspect of the invention, there is provided a monoclonal or polyclonal antibody mixture (eg, IgG
type antibody or antibodies), wherein the monoclonal antibody or mixture is according to any
configuration, aspect, embodiment or example of the invention, or a mutant or derivative antibody
thereof optionally for use in medicine, optionally for the treatment and/or prevention of an infectious
disease, wherein optionally wherein each antibody binds an antigen of an infectious disease
pathogen, preferably the same antigen.
In an aspect of the invention, there is provided the use of an isolated, monoclonal or polyclonal
antibody according to any configuration, aspect, embodiment or example of the invention, or a mutant
or derivative antibody thereof in the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment and/or prevention
of an infectious disease, optionally wherein the infectious disease is a disease caused by a bacterial
or viral pathogen.
                                                         34
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

An example of a mutant antibody is one that bears up to 15 or 10 amino acid mutations in its variable
regions relative to an isolated antibody (eg, IgG-type, such as IgG1-type, antibody) obtainable or
obtained by the second method of the invention (including step (j). An example of a derivative is one
that has been modified to replace a constant region with a different constant region such as a human
constant region; or mutated to enhance or ablate Fc effector function.
Examples of infectious diseases are diseases caused or mediated by a bacterial or viral pathogen,
eg, a pathogen listed in Table 1. Examples of antigens are those listed in Table 1.
For example, the infectious disease is selected from the group consisting of a disease caused by a
pathogen selected from the group consisting of Haemophilus influenza, E coli, Neisseria meningitidis,
a herpes family virus, cytomegalovirus (CMV), HIV and influenza virus.
The invention further provides a nucleotide sequence encoding an antibody according to any
configuration, aspect, embodiment or example of the invention, optionally wherein the nucleotide
sequence is part of a vector.
The invention further provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising the antibody or antibodies of
any configuration, aspect, embodiment or example of the invention and a diluent, excipient or carrier.
In a third configuration of the invention, there is provided
A non-human vertebrate (optionally a mouse or a rat) or vertebrate cell whose genome comprises:
(a)          An immunoglobulin heavy chain locus comprising either:
             (i)            one or more human VL gene segments, one or more human D gene segments and
                            one or more human J gene segments upstream of a constant region (optionally a
                            rearranged VLDJHCH or VADJHCH); or
             (ii)           one or more human VH gene segments selected from the group consisting of: a VHIII
                            gene family member (optionally, a VHIIIa or VHIIIb family member), a VHIV gene
                            family member, VHIII 9.1 (VH3-15), VHIII VH26 (VH3-23), VH3-21, LSG6.1,
                            LSG12.1, DP77 (V3-21), VH H1l, VH1GRR, ha3h2, VHI-halcl, VHIII-VH2-1,
                            VH4.18, ha4h3, Hv1051, 71-2, Hv1f1O, VH4.11, 71-4, VH251, VH1-69 and a gene
                            segment at least 80% identical; one or more human D gene segments and one or
                            more human JH gene segments upstream of a constant region; optionally each VH
                            gene segment (and optionally each D) is selected from List Al, A2, Al.1, A1.2, A2.1,
                            A2.2, A2.3 or A2.4 below;and (b) An immunoglobulin light chain locus comprising one
                            or more human V gene segments (eg, a plurality of VL) and one or more human J
                            gene segments upstream of a constant region, optionally wherein the light chain
                            locus is according to (b)(i) or (b)(ii) of the first configuration of the invention; Wherein
                            the gene segments in the heavy chain locus are operably linked to the constant
                            region thereof, and the gene segments in the light chain locus are operably linked to
                            the constant region thereof, so that upon immunisation the mouse is capable of
                            producing an antibody comprising heavy chains produced by recombination of the
                                                                 35
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

                            heavy chain locus and light chains produced by recombination of the light chain
                            locus.
In one example, in (a)(i) all of the heavy chain locus V gene segments are human VL gene segments.
In one embodiment of the third configuration, the V gene segment repertoire of the light chain locus
comprises or consists of one or more VL gene segments selected from the group consisting of a VJI
gene family member, VAVII 4A, VJI 2.1, VAVII 4A, a VA1 gene family member, a VA3gene family
member, IGLV1S2, VA3-cML70, lalh2, lalvl, la3h3, Kv325, a VKI gene family member, KI-15A
(KL012), VKII family member, a VKIII family member, a VKI gene family member, KI-15A (KL012),
VKII A2 (optionally the A2a allele), VK A27 (Humkv325) and a gene segment at least 80% identical
thereto; optionally each VL gene segment is selected from List Al, A2, A1.1, A1.2, A2.1, A2.2, A2.3
or A2.4 below; and/or wherein or in (a)(ii) the heavy chain locus V gene segment repertoire consists
of only one (or two, three or four) VH gene segment type (optionally and one or mutants thereof),
wherein the VH gene segment is selected from said group of VH gene segments. This is useful to
bias the immune response of the vertebrate (and thus resultant lead antibodies) to a predetermined
gene segment, eg, one known to be commonly used in natural human immune responses to
antigens, such as antigens of infectious disease pathogens.
In one embodiment of the third configuration, in (a) said constant region is a heavy chain
endogenous non-human vertebrate (optionally host mouse or rat) constant region and/or in (b) said
constant region is a light chain endogenous non-human vertebrate (optionally host mouse or rat)
constant region.
In one embodiment of the third configuration, endogenous heavy and light chain expression has been
inactivated.
A fourth configuration of the present invention provides
A non-human vertebrate (optionally a mouse or a rat) or vertebrate cell whose genome comprises: (a)
(i) An unrearranged immunoglobulin heavy chain locus comprising one or more human VL gene
segments, one or more human D gene segments and one or more JH gene segments upstream of a
constant region, wherein each human VL gene segment is a human gene segment identical to (or
mutant of, eg, having up to 15 or 10 nucleotide changes from the human gene segment) a human VL
gene segment (eg, a germline VL gene segment; eg, a VL gene segment selected from List Al, A2,
A1.1, A1.2, A2.1, A2.2, A2.3 or A2.4 below) used to produce a rearranged VJ encoding a light chain
variable region of a human antibody from an antibody-expressing cell wherein said antibody binds to
an antigen of an infectious disease pathogen (optionally the variable regions of said antibody being
identical to an antibody from a human individual suffering, susceptible to, or recovered from, a
disease or condition caused or mediated by an organism harbouring or secreting said antigen; or from
a human individual harbouring said organism); or (ii) An immunoglobulin heavy chain locus
comprising a rearranged VJ region or VDJ region upstream of a constant region, wherein the
nucleotide sequence of the recombined region is identical to a nucleotide sequence produced by the
recombination of a human J gene segment and optionally a human D gene segment with a human
gene segment identical to (or mutant of, eg, having up to 15 or 10 nucleotide changes from the
                                                           36
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

human gene segment) a human VL gene segment (eg, a germline VL gene segment; eg, a VL gene
segment selected from List Al, A2, A1.1, A1.2, A2.1, A2.2, A2.3 or A2.4 below) used to produce a
rearranged VJ encoding a light chain variable region of a human antibody from an antibody
expressing cell wherein said antibody binds to an antigen of an infectious disease pathogen
(optionally the variable regions of said antibody being identical to an antibody from a human individual
suffering, susceptible to, or recovered from, a disease or condition caused or mediated by an
organism harbouring or secreting said antigen; or from a human individual harbouring said organism);
(b)          An immunoglobulin light chain locus comprising one or more human V gene segments (eg, a
             plurality of VL) and one or more human J gene segments upstream of a constant region; and
(c)          Wherein the gene segments in the light chain locus are operably linked to the constant region
             thereof, and the gene segments or VJ or VDJ in the heavy chain locus are operably linked to
             the constant region thereof, so that upon immunisation the mouse is capable of producing an
             antibody comprising light chains produced by recombination of the light chain locus and
             heavy chains derived from the heavy chain locus;
(d)          Optionally when (a)(i) applies, each said VL gene segment in the heavy chain locus is
             selected from the group consisting of a VL gene segment selected from the group consisting
             of a VAII gene family member, VAVII 4A, VAII 2.1, VAVII 4A, a VAl gene family member, a
             VA3gene family member, IGLV1S2, VA3-cML70, lalh2, lalvl, la3h3, Kv325, a VKI gene family
             member, KI-15A (KL012), VKII family member, a VKIII family member, a VKI gene family
             member, KI-15A (KL012), VKII A2 (optionally the A2a allele), VK A27 (Humkv325) and a
             gene segment at least 80% identical thereto; optionally each VL gene segment is selected
             from List Al, A2, Al.1, A1.2, A2.1, A2.2, A2.3 or A2.4 below;
(e)          Optionally when (a)(ii) applies, the nucleotide sequence of the recombined region is identical
             to a nucleotide sequence produced by the recombination of a human J gene segment and
             optionally a human D gene segment with a human VL gene segment selected from the group
             consisting of a VAII gene family member, VAVII 4A, VAII 2.1, VAVII 4A, a VAl gene family
             member, a VA3gene family member, IGLVlS2, VA3-cML70, lalh2, lalvl, la3h3, Kv325, a VKI
             gene family member, KI-15A (KL012), VKII family member, a VKIII family member, a VKI
             gene family member, KI-15A (KL012), VKII A2 (optionally the A2a allele), VK A27
             (Humkv325) and a gene segment at least 80% identical thereto.
The group of VL gene segments is useful to bias the immune response of the vertebrate (and thus
resultant lead antibodies) to a predetermined gene segment, eg, one known to be commonly used in
natural human immune responses to antigens, such as antigens of infectious disease pathogens.
In an embodiment of the fourth configuration, the VL gene segments of the heavy chain locus are VA
gene segments.
In an embodiment of the fourth configuration, in (a) said constant region is a heavy chain endogenous
non-human vertebrate (optionally host mouse or rat) constant region.
                                                        37
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

In an embodiment of the fourth configuration, in (b) said constant region is a light chain endogenous
non-human vertebrate (optionally host mouse or rat) constant region.
In an embodiment of the fourth configuration, the genome of said vertebrate or cell is homozygous for
heavy chain locus (a)(i) or (ii); optionally wherein:
-            the V gene segment repertoire of the heavy chain loci consists of one or more (or consists
             only of) human VL gene segments selected from the group consisting of a VL gene segment
             selected from the group consisting of a VAII gene family member, VAVII 4A, VAII 2.1, VAVII
             4A, a VA1 gene family member, a VA3gene family member, IGLV1S2, VA3-cML70, lalh2,
             lalvl, la3h3, Kv325, a VKI gene family member, KI-15A (KL012), VKII family member, a VKIII
             family member, a VKI gene family member, KI- 15A (KL012), VKII A2 (optionally the A2a
             allele), VK A27 (Humkv325) and a gene segment at least 80% identical thereto; or
-            the recombined VJ or VDJ repertoire of the heavy chain loci consists of sequences identical
             to one or more nucleotide sequences produced by the recombination of a human VL gene
             segment selected from the group consisting of a VL gene segment selected from the group
             consisting of a VAII gene family member, VAVII 4A, VAII 2.1, VAVII 4A, a VA1 gene family
             member, a VA3gene family member, IGLV1S2, VA3-cML70, lalh2, lalvl, la3h3, Kv325, a VKI
             gene family member, KI-15A (KL012), VKII family member, a VKIII family member, a VKI
             gene family member, KI-15A (KL012), VKII A2 (optionally the A2a allele), VK A27
             (Humkv325) and a gene segment at least 80% identical thereto with a human J gene
             segment and optionally a human D gene segment.
In an embodiment of the fourth configuration, endogenous heavy and light chain expression has been
inactivated, and wherein heavy chain loci according to the fourth configuration are the only functional
heavy chain loci in the genome of the vertebrate or cell.
In an embodiment of the fourth configuration, each immunoglobulin heavy chain locus of said
vertebrate or cell is according to (a)(i) and comprises only a single human VL gene segment selected
from the group consisting of a VL gene segment selected from the group consisting of a VAII gene
family member, VAVII 4A, VAII 2.1, VAVII 4A, a VA1 gene family member, a VA3gene family
member, IGLV1S2, VA3-cML70, lalh2, lalvl, la3h3, Kv325, a VKI gene family member, KI-15A
(KL012), VKII family member, a VKIII family member, a VKI gene family member, KI-15A (KL012),
VKII A2 (optionally the A2a allele), VK A27 (Humkv325) and a gene segment at least 80% identical
thereto, optionally wherein the genome of the vertebrate or cell is homozygous for said heavy chain
so that all heavy chain loci comprise the same, single human VL gene segment.
In an embodiment of the fourth configuration, each immunoglobulin heavy chain locus of said
vertebrate or cell is according to (a)(ii) and comprises only a single rearranged VJ or VDJ region,
optionally wherein the genome of the vertebrate or cell is homozygous for said heavy chain so that all
heavy chain loci comprise the same, single rearranged VJ or VDJ region.
In an embodiment of the fourth configuration, each immunoglobulin heavy chain locus further
comprises a VL gene segment or rearranged region that is a mutant respectively of said selected
                                                      38
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

human VL gene segment or rearranged region, optionally wherein the genome of the vertebrate or
cell is homozygous for said light chain mutant VL gene segment or rearranged region.
In all configurations, aspects, examples and embodiments of the invention, where a "mutant" is
mentioned, this includes a mutant sequence that is identical to a reference sequence (eg, reference
VH, VL, VJ or VDJ) but with 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 or 10 nucleotide or amino acid changes therefrom.
In an embodiment of the fourth configuration, each immunoglobulin heavy chain locus comprises only
two or three human VL gene segments selected from said group, optionally wherein the genome of
the vertebrate or cell is homozygous for said two or three heavy chain human VL gene segments.
In an embodiment of the fourth configuration, each immunoglobulin heavy chain locus comprises only
two or three of said rearranged VJ or VDJ regions, optionally wherein the genome of the vertebrate or
cell is homozygous for said two or three heavy chain rearranged VJ or VDJ regions.
The invention provides a monoclonal or polyclonal antibody composition prepared by immunisation of
at least one vertebrate (eg, mouse or rat) according to the third or fourth embodiment of the invention
with an antigen, optionally wherein the antigen is an antigen of an infectious disease pathogen,
optionally wherein the same antigen is used to immunise all the vertebrates; optionally wherein the
antibody or antibodies are IgG-type.
The invention provides a third method: A method of isolating an antibody (eg, IgG-type, such as IgG1)
that binds a predetermined antigen, the method comprising
(a)          providing a vertebrate (optionally a mouse or rat) according to the third or fourth embodiment
             of the invention;
(b)          immunising (eg, using standard prime-boost) said vertebrate with said antigen (optionally
             wherein the antigen is an antigen of an infectious disease pathogen);
(c)          removing B lymphocytes from the vertebrate and selecting one or more B lymphocytes
             expressing antibodies that bind to the antigen;
(d)          optionally immortalising said selected B lymphocytes or progeny thereof, optionally by
             producing hybridomas therefrom; and
(e)          isolating an antibody (eg, and IgG-type antibody) expressed by the B lymphocytes;
(f)          Optionally, the third method comprises the step of isolating from said B lymphocytes nucleic
             acid encoding said antibody that binds said antigen; optionally exchanging the heavy chain
             constant region nucleotide sequence of the antibody with a nucleotide sequence encoding a
             human or humanised heavy chain constant region and optionally affinity maturing the variable
             region of said antibody; and optionally inserting said nucleic acid into an expression vector
             and optionally a host.
Optionally, the third method further comprises making a mutant or derivative of the antibody.
                                                        39
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

The invention provides a fourth method: A method of producing a polyclonal antibody mixture, the
method comprising carrying out the third method by separately immunising first and second
vertebrates (optionally first and second mice or first and second rats) with antigen (eg, any antigen
disclosed herein) and combining the anti-antigen antibodies isolated from each vertebrate (or mutants
or derivatives of said antibodies) to produce a polyclonal antibody mixture; optionally wherein the
following apply separately or in combination ((i) and (ii); or (i) and (iii)):
(i)          the vertebrates are immunised with the same antigen or different antigens (optionally wherein
             the different antigens are expressed by the same pathogenic organism (or different family
             members thereof or different strains of the organism));
(ii)         prior to immunisation the heavy chain loci of the vertebrates contain the identical VL gene
             repertoire (optionally a single VL gene) and optionally the identical D and/or J repertoire;
             optionally the heavy chain loci of the mammals are identical prior to immunisation;
(iii)        prior to immunisation the heavy chain loci of the vertebrates contain the identical rearranged
             VJ or VDJ repertoire (optionally a single VJ or VDJ); optionally the heavy chain loci of the
             vertebrates are identical prior to immunisation.
The invention provides a fifth method: A method of producing a polyclonal antibody mixture, the
method comprising carrying out the third method by immunising one or a plurality of vertebrates
(optionally mice or rats) with first and second antigens and combining the anti-antigen antibodies
isolated from each vertebrate (or mutants or derivatives of said antibodies) to produce a polyclonal
antibody mixture; optionally wherein the following apply separately or in combination ((i) and (ii); or (i)
and (iii)):
(i)          the antigens are expressed by the same pathogenic organism (or different family members
             thereof or different strains of the organism);
(ii)         prior to immunisation the heavy chain loci of the vertebrates contain the identical VL gene
             repertoire (optionally a single VL gene) and optionally the identical D and/or J repertoire;
             optionally the heavy chain loci of the mammals are identical prior to immunisation;
(iii)        prior to immunisation the heavy chain loci of the vertebrates contain the identical rearranged
             VJ or VDJ repertoire (optionally a single VJ or VDJ); optionally the heavy chain loci of the
             vertebrates are identical prior to immunisation.
The invention provides a sixth method: A method of producing host cells capable of expressing a
polyclonal antibody mixture, the method comprising, in the third method wherein step (f) is carried
out:
(a)          immunising one or a plurality of vertebrates (optionally mice or rats) with first and second
             antigens (optionally wherein the different antigens are expressed by the same pathogenic
             organism (or a family member thereof));
                                                         40
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

(b)          isolating nucleic acid encoding first and second anti-antigen antibodies from B lymphocytes
             from said vertebrates;
(c)          determining the nucleotide sequences of the heavy and light chain variable regions
             (optionally the entire heavy and/or light chain sequences) of the first antibody;
(d)          determining the nucleotide sequence of the light variable region and optionally the heavy
             chain variable region of the second antibody;
(e)          inserting the light chain variable region coding sequence of each antibody into a light chain
             expression vector; optionally wherein the constant region coding sequence of each light chain
             is exchanged for a nucleotide sequence that encodes a human or humanised constant
             region;
(f)          inserting the heavy chain variable region coding sequence of the first antibody into a heavy
             chain expression vector; optionally wherein the constant region coding sequence of the heavy
             chain of the first antibody is exchanged for a nucleotide sequence that encodes a human or
             humanised constant region;
(g)          optionally inserting the heavy chain variable region coding sequence of the second antibody
             into a heavy chain expression vector; optionally wherein the constant region coding sequence
             of the heavy chain of the second antibody is exchanged for a nucleotide sequence that
             encodes a human or humanised constant region; and
(h)          introducing each expression vector into a host cell and co-expressing antibody chains in a
             mixture of said host cells to produce antibodies, each antibody comprising one or both of said
             light chain variable regions and a heavy chain; optionally wherein the expression vectors are
             introduced together into the same host cell (eg, a CHO or HEK293 cell) so that the cell is
             capable of expressing antibody light chains and heavy chains, such that the cell or a plurality
             of the host cells express antibodies (eg, two, three or four different antibodies), each
             comprising one or both of said light chain variable regions and a heavy chain;
(i)          optionally:
             prior to immunisation the heavy chain loci of the vertebrates contain the identical VL gene
             repertoire (optionally a single VL gene segment) and optionally the identical D and/or J
             repertoire (optionally a single D and J gene segment); optionally the heavy chain loci of the
             vertebrates are identical prior to immunisation; or
             prior to immunisation the heavy chain loci of the vertebrates contain the identical rearranged
             VJ or VDJ repertoire (optionally a single VJ or VDJ); optionally the heavy chain loci of the
             vertebrates are identical prior to immunisation.
The invention also provides a monoclonal or polyclonal antibody mixture so produced or a derivative
antibody or mixture thereof, eg, where one or more constant region has been changed (eg, replaced
                                                         41
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

with a different constant region such as a human constant region; or mutated to enhance or ablate Fc
effector function).
The invention provides a seventh method: A method of producing a monoclonal antibody or
polyclonal antibody mixture, the method comprising carrying out the sixth method and expressing a
monoclonal antibody or polyclonal mixture of said antibodies; optionally followed by isolating an
antibody comprising the light chain variable region of the first and/or second antibodies.
Optionally, each vertebrate used for immunisation is provided by
(a)          isolating from a human blood or tissue (eg, B lymphocytes, PBMCs, bone marrow, spleen,
             tonsil or lymph node) sample a B lymphocyte that expresses an antibody that binds a
             predetermined antigen (eg, an antigen expressed by an infectious disease pathogen;
             optionally wherein said serum or tissue was from a human individual suffering, susceptible to,
             or recovered from, a disease or condition caused or mediated by an organism harbouring or
             secreting said antigen; or from a human individual harbouring said organism);
(b)          determining which human germline VL gene segment was recombined in the human to
             produce the nucleotide sequence of said B lymphocyte that encodes the light chain variable
             region of the antibody;
(c)          constructing a transgenic vertebrate wherein said human germline VL gene segment is
             provided in a heavy chain locus thereof according to the third or fourth configuration of the
             invention; and
(d)          providing said transgenic vertebrate for immunisation in the fourth, fifth or sixth method of the
             invention.
In another embodiment, each vertebrate used for immunisation is provided by
(a)          isolating from a human blood or tissue (eg, B lymphocytes, PBMCs, bone marrow, spleen,
             tonsil or lymph node) sample a B lymphocyte that expresses an antibody that binds a
             predetermined antigen (eg, an antigen expressed by an infectious disease pathogen;
             optionally wherein said serum or tissue was from a human individual suffering, susceptible to,
             or recovered from, a disease or condition caused or mediated by an organism harbouring or
             secreting said antigen; or from a human individual harbouring said organism);
(b)          determining a nucleotide sequence of said B lymphocyte that encodes a rearranged VDJ or
             VJ region of the antibody;
(c)          constructing a transgenic vertebrate wherein said rearranged VDJ or VJ region is provided in
             a heavy chain locus thereof according the third or fourth configuration of the invention; and
(d)          providing said transgenic vertebrate for immunisation in the method of the fourth, fifth or sixth
             method of the invention.
Common Heavy Chain Antibodies & Bispecifics (eg, to two pathogen antigens for infectious diseases)
                                                       42
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

The invention provides an isolated antibody (eg, IgG-type antibody) obtainable or obtained by the
seventh method, or a mutant or derivative antibody thereof wherein (i) the isolated antibody
comprises two copies of the heavy chain variable region of said first antibody paired with two copies
of the light chain variable region of said first antibody; or (ii) the isolated antibody comprises two
copies of the heavy chain variable region of said second antibody paired with two copies of the light
chain variable region of said first antibody; or (iii) the isolated antibody is a bispecific antibody
comprising one copy of the heavy chain variable region of said first antibody paired with a copy of the
light chain variable region of the first antibody, and one copy of the heavy chain variable region of
said the antibody paired with a copy of the light chain variable region of the first antibody, optionally
wherein the bispecific antibody binds to said first and second antigens described above; optionally for
use in medicine, optionally for the treatment and/or prevention of an infectious disease.
The invention provides a monoclonal or polyclonal antibody mixture (eg, IgG-type antibody or
antibodies), wherein the monoclonal antibody or mixture comprises or consists of antibodies
produced by the fourth, fifth, sixth or seventh method, or a mutant or derivative antibody thereof
optionally for use in medicine, optionally for the treatment and/or prevention of an infectious disease,
wherein optionally wherein each antibody binds an antigen of an infectious disease pathogen,
preferably the same antigen.
The following embodiments relate to antibodies, host cells, nucleic acids and compositions and apply
to such elements obtained or obtainable by any previous configuration or method of the invention:
The invention provides an isolated chimaeric antibody for treating and/or preventing an infectious
disease or condition, the antibody comprising a non-human vertebrate (optionally a mouse or rat)
heavy chain constant regions and human variable regions that bind an antigen of an infectious
disease pathogen, wherein the antibody is obtainable or obtained in a method comprising
immunisation of a vertebrate according to of any one of the first to seventh methods of the invention
with said antigen. The antigen is, for example, any antigen mentioned above. The disease or
condition is, for example, any disease or condition mentioned above.
The invention provides an isolated human antibody for treating and/or preventing an infectious
disease or condition, the antibody comprising human heavy chain constant regions and human
variable regions that bind an antigen of an infectious disease pathogen, wherein the antibody is
obtainable or obtained in a method comprising affinity maturation of antibody variable regions in vivo
in a transgenic non-human vertebrate (eg, mouse or rat) when said variable regions are operably
linked to heavy chain constant regions of said vertebrate (eg, mouse or rat heavy chain constant
regions) by (a) immunisation of a vertebrate of any configuration of the invention with said antigen, (b)
isolation of nucleic acid encoding a chimaeric antibody as described above, (c) replacing the
nucleotide sequences of the nucleic acid that encode the non-human vertebrate heavy chain constant
regions with nucleotide sequence encoding human heavy chain constant regions to produce nucleic
acid encoding a human antibody; (d) expressing the human antibody in vitro (optionally from CHO or
HEK293 cells harbouring the human nucleic acid) and (e) isolating the human antibody (optionally
with further affinity maturation of the antibody and/or producing a derivative thereof). The invention
provides a mixture of first and second such human antibodies (an optionally also third and optionally
fourth antibodies), each antibody being capable of binding to an antigen of an infectious disease
                                                     43
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

pathogen (optionally wherein the first antibody binds a first antigen and the second antibody binds a
second antigen, said antigens being from the same pathogen; or wherein the antigens are the same).
Optionally, the light chain amino acid sequence of the first antibody is identical to the light chain
amino acid sequence of the second antibody, or has up to 15 amino acid changes therefrom. The
advantages of such a common (or closely-related) chain are explained above, and include relative
ease of manufacture.
The antigen is, for example, any antigen mentioned above. The disease or condition is, for example,
any disease or condition mentioned above. The pathogen is, for example, any pathogen mentioned
above.
The invention provides an antibody comprising human variable domains that bind a predetermined
antigen (eg, an antigen expressed by a bacterial or viral pathogen), wherein the variable domain
sequences are encoded by rearranged VDJ and VJ regions, each of the VDJ and/or VJ being a
hybrid region produced by the in vivo rearrangement of human heavy and light chain variable region
gene segments (V and J and optionally D segments); optionally wherein the antibody comprises
human constant regions.
The invention provides a method of producing an isolated human antibody for treating and/or
preventing an infectious disease or condition, the antibody comprising human heavy chain constant
regions and human variable regions that bind an antigen of an infectious disease pathogen, wherein
the method comprises affinity maturing antibody variable regions in vivo in a transgenic non-human
vertebrate (eg, mouse or rat) when said variable regions are operably linked to heavy chain constant
regions of said vertebrate (eg, mouse or rat heavy chain constant regions) by (a) immunisation of a
vertebrate of any configuration of the invention with said antigen, (b) isolation of nucleic acid encoding
a chimaeric antibody as described above, (c) replacing the nucleotide sequences of the nucleic acid
that encode the non-human vertebrate heavy chain constant regions with nucleotide sequence
encoding human heavy chain constant regions to produce nucleic acid encoding a human antibody;
(d) expressing the human antibody in vitro (optionally from CHO or HEK293 cells harbouring the
human nucleic acid) and (e) isolating the human antibody (optionally with further affinity maturation of
the antibody and/or producing a derivative thereof). The antigen is, for example, any antigen
mentioned above. The disease or condition is, for example, any disease or condition mentioned
above. The pathogen is, for example, any pathogen mentioned above.
The invention provides the use of any isolated, monoclonal or polyclonal antibody or mixture of the
invention as described above, in the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment and/or
prevention of an infectious disease, optionally wherein the infectious disease is a disease caused by
a bacterial or viral pathogen. The disease or condition is, for example, any disease or condition
mentioned above. The pathogen is, for example, any pathogen mentioned above. For example, the
infectious disease is selected from the group consisting of a disease caused by a pathogen selected
from the group consisting of Haemophilus influenza, E coli, Neisseria meningitidis, a herpes family
virus, cytomegalovirus (CMV), HIV and influenza virus.
The invention provides first and second nucleotide sequences (eg , DNA, RNA, mRNA, cDNA)
encoding the heavy and light chains of an antibody according to any configuration, aspect, example
                                                    44
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

or embodiment of the invention or at least the variable regions thereof, optionally wherein each
nucleotide sequence is part of a vector.
The invention provides a host cell comprising one or more expression vectors encoding the heavy
chains of the first and second antibodies mentioned above, and the light chain of the first antibody
mentioned above (and optionally also the light chain of the second antibody). Again, reference is
made to the discussion above about the advantages of having a common antibody chain for the
production of antibody mixtures.
The invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising the antibody or antibodies of any
configuration, aspect, example or embodiment of the invention and a diluent, excipient or carrier;
optionally wherein the composition is provided in a container connected to an IV needle or syringe or
in an IV bag. The skilled person will know standard diluents, excipients and carriers suitable for
pharmaceutical application.
Throughout this description, where it is mentioned "at least 80% identical", there is contemplated in
the alternative one of the following identities: at least 85%, 90, 95, 96, 97, 98 or 99 identical and the
disclosure herein contemplates that one or more of these identities may be recited in a claim herein in
place of "at least 80% identical".
Tailoring V(D)J Incorporation Into Immunoglobin Loci For The Generation of Antibodies
Against Infectious Disease
In the various configurations, aspects, embodiments and examples above, the invention provides the
skilled addressee with the possibility of choosing immunoglobulin gene segments in a way that tailors
or biases the repertoire for application to generating antibodies to treat and/or prevent infectious
diseases. The inventors have categorised the following groups of gene segments for use in the
invention according to the desired application of resultant antibodies.
List A:
Immunoglobulin gene segments for antibodies that bind an antigen expressed by a Pathogen
(a)          a VL gene segment selected from the group consisting of a VAII gene family member, VAVII
             4A, VAII 2.1, VAVII 4A, a VA1 gene family member, a VA3gene family member, IGLV1S2,
             VA3-cML70, lalh2, lalvl, la3h3, Kv325, a VKI gene family member, KI-15A (KL012), VKII
             family member, a VKIII family member, a VKI gene family member, KI-15A (KL012), VKII A2
             (optionally the A2a allele), VK A27 (Humkv325) and a gene segment at least 80% identical
             thereto.
(b)          a VAgene segment selected from a VAII gene family member, VAVII 4A, VAII 2.1, VAVII 4A,
             a VA1 gene family member, a VA3gene family member, IGLV1S2, VA3-cML70, lalh2, lalvl,
             la3h3 and a gene segment at least 80% identical thereto.
(c)          a VK gene segment selected from Kv325, a VKI gene family member, KI-15A (KL012), VKII
             family member, a VKIII family member, a VKI gene family member, KI-15A (KL012), VKII A2
                                                     45
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

             (optionally the A2a allele), VK A27 (Humkv325) and a gene segment at least 80% identical
             thereto.
(d)          a VH gene segment a VHIII gene family member (optionally, a VHIlla or VHIllb family
             member), a VHIV gene family member, VHIII 9.1 (VH3-15), VHIII VH26 (VH3-23), VH3-21,
             LSG6.1, LSG12.1, DP77 (V3-21), VH H11, VH1GRR, ha3h2, VHI-halcl, VHIII-VH2-1,
             VH4.18, ha4h3, Hv1051, 71-2, Hv1f10, VH4.11, 71-4, VH251, VH1-69 and a gene segment
             at least 80% identical thereto.
(e)          a JA gene segment selected from JA2, JA3 and a gene segment at least 80% identical
             thereto.
(f)          a D gene segment selected from Dk1, Dxp'1, Dn4r, D2r and a gene segment at least 80%
             identical thereto.
List Al:
Immunoglobulin gene segments for antibodies that bind an antigen expressed by a Bacterial
Pathogen
(a)          a VAgene segment selected from a VAII gene family member, VAVII 4A, VAII 2.1, VAVII 4A
             and a gene segment at least 80% identical thereto.
(b)          a VK gene segment selected from a VKI gene family member, KI-15A (KL012), VKII family
             member, a VKIII family member, a VKI gene family member, KI-15A (KL012), VKII A2
             (optionally the A2a allele), VK A27 (Humkv325) and a gene segment at least 80% identical
             thereto.
(c)          a VH gene segment a VH3 gene family member (optionally, a VHIlla or VHIllb family
             member), VHIII 9.1 (VH3-15), VHIII VH26 (VH3-23), VH3-21, LSG6.1, LSG12.1, DP77 (V3
             21), VH H1 1 and a gene segment at least 80% identical thereto.
(d)          a JA gene segment selected from JA2, JA3 and a gene segment at least 80% identical
             thereto.
(e)          a JH gene segment selected from JH2, JH3, JH4 and a gene segment at least 80% identical
             thereto.
List Al.1:
Immunoglobulin gene segments for antibodies that bind an antigen expressed by H influenza
(a)          a VAgene segment selected from a VAII gene family member, VAVII 4A, VAII 2.1, VAVII 4A
             and a gene segment at least 80% identical thereto.
                                                     46
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

(b)          a VK gene segment selected from a VKII family member, a VKIII family member, a VKI gene
             family member, KI-15A (KL012), VKII A2 (optionally the A2a allele), VK A27 (Humkv325) and
             a gene segment at least 80% identical thereto.
(c)          a VH gene segment a VH3 gene family member (optionally, a VHIllb family member), VHIII
             9.1 (VH3-15), VHIII VH26 (VH3-23), VH3-21, LSG6.1, LSG12.1, DP77 (V3-21) and a gene
             segment at least 80% identical thereto.
(d)          a JA gene segment selected from JA2, JA3 and a gene segment at least 80% identical
             thereto.
List A1.2:
Immunoglobulin gene segments for antibodies that bind an antigen expressed by E Coli or Neisseria
meninqitidis
(a)          a VH gene segment a VH3 gene family member (optionally a VHIlla or VHIllb member), VHIII
             9.1 (VH3-15), VH H11, VHIII VH26 (VH3-23) a gene segment at least 80% identical thereto,
             eg, VHIII 9.1 + JH3; or VH H1 1 + JH4; or VHIII VH26 + JH2.
(b)          a VK gene segment selected from a VKI gene family member, KI-15A (KL012) and a gene
             segment at least 80% identical thereto.
(c)          a VAgene segment selected from a VAII gene family member, VAII 2.1 and a gene segment
             at least 80% identical thereto.
(d)          a JH gene segment selected from JH2, JH3, JH4 and a gene segment at least 80% identical
             thereto.
A2:
Immunoglobulin gene segments for antibodies that bind an antigen expressed by a viral Pathogen
(a)          a VH gene segment selected from a VHIII gene family member, a VHIV gene family member,
             VHIII- VH26 (VH3-23), VH1GRR, ha3h2, VHI-halcl, VHIII-VH2-1, VH4.18, ha4h3, Hv1051,
             71-2, Hvlfl0, VH4.11, 71-4, VH251, VH1-69 and a gene segment at least 80% identical
             thereto.
(b)          a VA gene segment selected from a VA1 gene family member, a VA3gene family member,
             IGLV1S2, VA3-cML70, lalh2, lalvl, la3h3 and a gene segment at least 80% identical thereto.
(c)          a Vk gene segment selected from Kv325 and a gene segment at least 80% identical thereto.
(d)          a JH gene segment selected from JH3, JH5, JH6 and a gene segment at least 80% identical
             thereto.
                                                       47
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

(e)          a D gene segment selected from Dk1, Dxp'1, Dn4r, D2r and a gene segment at least 80%
             identical thereto.
(f)          a JA gene segment selected from JA2, JA3 and a gene segment at least 80% identical
             thereto.
A2.1:
Immunoglobulin gene segments for antibodies that bind an antigen expressed by Herpes Virus Family
(eq, VZV or HSV)
(a)          a VH gene segment selected from a VHIII gene family member, a VHIV gene family member,
             VHIII- VH26 (VH3-23), VH1GRR, ha3h2, VHI-halcl, VHIII-VH2-1, VH4.18, ha4h3, and a
             gene segment at least 80% identical thereto.
(b)          a VA gene segment selected from a VA1 gene family member, a VA3gene family member,
             IGLV1S2, VA3-cML70, lalh2, lalvl, la3h3 and a gene segment at least 80% identical thereto.
(c)          a JH gene segment selected from JH3, JH5, JH6 and a gene segment at least 80% identical
             thereto.
(d)          a D gene segment selected from Dk1, Dxp'1, Dn4r, D2r and a gene segment at least 80%
             identical thereto.
(e)          a JA gene segment selected from JA2, JA3 and a gene segment at least 80% identical
             thereto.
A2.2:
Immunoglobulin gene segments for antibodies that bind an antigen expressed by CMV
(a)          a VH gene segment selected from Hv1051 and a gene segment at least 80% identical
             thereto.
(b)          a Vk gene segment selected from Kv325 and a gene segment at least 80% identical thereto.
A2.3:
Immunoglobulin gene segments for antibodies that bind an antigen expressed by HIV
(a)          a VH gene segment selected from 71-2, Hvlfl0, VH4.11, 71-4, VH251, VH1-69 and a gene
             segment at least 80% identical thereto.
A2.4:
Immunoglobulin gene segments for antibodies that bind an antigen expressed by Influenza Virus
(a) a VH gene segment selected from VH1-69 and a gene segment at least 80% identical thereto.
                                                      48
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

Thus,
Where one wishes to generate an antibody or antibody mixture to treat and/or prevent an infectious
disease, one or more V, D and/or or all J gene segments used in any configuration, aspect, method,
example or embodiment of the invention can be selected from List Al. Thus, for example in (a) of the
first configuration of the invention, the recited heavy chain V gene segment is selected from the VH
gene segments in List A, optionally with a D in that list.
Where one wishes to generate an antibody or antibody mixture to treat and/or prevent an infectious
disease caused or mediated by a bacterial pathogen, one or more or all V, D and/or J gene segments
used in any configuration, aspect, method, example or embodiment of the invention can be selected
from List Al.
Where one wishes to generate an antibody or antibody mixture to treat and/or prevent an infectious
disease caused or mediated by a viral pathogen, one or more or all V, D and/or J gene segments
used in any configuration, aspect, method, example or embodiment of the invention can be selected
from List A2.
Where one wishes to generate an antibody or antibody mixture to treat and/or prevent an infectious
disease caused or mediated by H influenza, one or more or all V, D and/or J gene segments used in
any configuration, aspect, method, example or embodiment of the invention can be selected from List
Al.1.
Where one wishes to generate an antibody or antibody mixture to treat and/or prevent an infectious
disease caused or mediated by E Coli or Neisseria meningitidis, one or more or all V, D and/or J gene
segments used in any configuration, aspect, method, example or embodiment of the invention can be
selected from List A1.2.
Where one wishes to generate an antibody or antibody mixture to treat and/or prevent an infectious
disease caused or mediated by Herpes Virus Family (eg, VZV or HSV), one or more or all V, D and/or
J gene segments used in any configuration, aspect, method, example or embodiment of the invention
can be selected from List A2.1.
Where one wishes to generate an antibody or antibody mixture to treat and/or prevent an infectious
disease caused or mediated by CMV, one or more or all V, D and/or J gene segments used in any
configuration, aspect, method, example or embodiment of the invention can be selected from List
A2.2.
Where one wishes to generate an antibody or antibody mixture to treat and/or prevent an infectious
disease caused or mediated by HIV, one or more or all V, D and/or J gene segments used in any
configuration, aspect, method, example or embodiment of the invention can be selected from List
A2.3.
Where one wishes to generate an antibody or antibody mixture to treat and/or prevent an infectious
disease caused or mediated by Influenza Virus, one or more or all V, D and/or J gene segments used
                                                    49
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

in any configuration, aspect, method, example or embodiment of the invention can be selected from
List A2.4.
Optionally each VH segment in the locus of the invention is selected from List Al, A2, A1.1, A1.2,
A2.1, A2.2, A2.3 or A2.4.
Optionally each VL segment in the locus of the invention is selected from List Al, A2, A1.1, A1.2,
A2.1, A2.2, A2.3 or A2.4
Optionally each D segment in the locus of the invention is selected from List Al, A2, A1.1, A1.2, A2.1,
A2.2, A2.3 or A2.4.
Optionally each JL segment in the locus of the invention is selected from List Al, A2, A1.1, A1.2,
A2.1, A2.2, A2.3 or A2.4.
Long HCDR3 Binding sites & Tailoring Gene Segments to Pathogens & Other Antigens
This aspect of the invention relates to the development of vertebrates, cells, methods and antibodies
with relatively long HCDR3 binding sites. There is also provided embodiments in which genomes and
antibodies are tailored in terms of their gene segments usage to address infectious disease pathogen
antigens or other antigens which are advantageously addressed with a longer HCDR3 length for
binding or neutralisation. Antibodies may be raised in the vertebrates by immunisation with a non
pathogen target antigen, eg, an antigen bearing an epitope in a cleft requiring a long CDR for contact,
or an antigen from a pathogen that causes or is implicated in harmful human disease or conditions.
Examples are bacterial or viral pathogens and the target antigen may be a bacterial cell-surface
antigen or a viral surface-exposed antigen (eg, coat protein). Additionally or alternatively, the antigen
may be an antigen that is released (eg, secreted) from a pathogenic bacterium or virus. The invention
is not limited to addressing pathogen antigens, but is also useful for addressing other antigens where
a long CDR3 would be useful for binding (eg, an enzyme active site or receptor cleft).
Antibodies with long HCDR3 (at least 20 amino acids according to IMGT nomenclature) have been
shown to effectively neutralise a variety of pathogens including HIV, Influenza virus, malaria and
Africa trypanosomes. Reference is also made to naturally-occurring Camelid (eg, llama or camel)
heavy chain-only antibodies which bear long HCDR3s for reaching relatively inaccessible epitopes
(see, eg, EP0937140). Long HCDR3s can form unique stable subdomains with extended loop
structure that towers above the antibody surface to confer fine specificity. In some cases, the long
HCDR3 itself is sufficient for epitope binding and neutralization (Liu, L et al; Journal of Virology. 2011.
85: 8467-8476, incorporated herein by reference). The unique structure of the long HCDR3 allows it
to bind to cognate epitopes within inaccessible structure or extensive glycosylation on a pathogen
surface. In human peripheral blood, there is around 3.5% of naive B antibodies or 1.9% of memory B
IgG antibodies containing the HCDR3s with lengths of more than 24 amino acids (Briney, BS et al,
referenced given below) (Fig. 1 of Briney, BS et al). The usage analysis indicates that these
antibodies have the preference to use human VH1-69, D2-2, D3-3, D2-15 and JH6 segments (Figs.
2,5 of Briney, BS et al). There are around 20% of all HCDR3 length antibodies using JH6. However,
in those antibodies with more than 24 amino acids of HCDR3, there are 70% using JH6 (Fig.2 of
                                                   50
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

Briney, BS et al). Human VH5-51 is also commonly used for anti-HIV antibodies (see Gorny et al,
PLoS One. 2011;6(12):e27780. Epub 2011 Dec 2.
Human anti-V3 HIV-1 monoclonal antibodies encoded by the VH5-51/VL lambda genes define a
conserved antigenic structure, incorporated herein by reference).
Supplementing these observations, the inventors have found (see examples) that other selected
human heavy chain variable region gene segments (V, D, J) recombine in transgenic non-human
vertebrates to produce long HCDR3 (at least 20 amino acids).
Thus, as explained further in the examples, the inventors constructed transgenic IgH loci in ES cells,
wherein the loci purposely included selected human heavy chain variable region gene segments (V,
D, J) that recombine to produce long HCDR3 (at least 20 amino acids). From the ES cells, the
inventors generated transgenic non-human vertebrates (both naive and immunised with a range of
different target antigen types - disease pathogen and human antigenic species), isolated antibodies
and heavy chain sequences based on the selected gene segments as well as B-cells expressing
these and made hybridomas expressing antigen-specific antibodies that are based on the selected
gene segments.
There is a need in the art for genetically modified non-human animals that prefer to make human
antibodies that have long HCDR3s, as well as antibodies that can be selected from such animals
wherein the antibodies can address target epitopes more easily accessed by long HCDR3s. Long
CDRH3 is also useful for penetrating highly glycan-covered epitope sites (eg, virus epitopes or any
glycoprotein targets, eg, see Nature. 2011 Dec 14;480(7377):324-5. doi: 10.1038/480324a;
Vaccinology: "A sweet cleft in HIV's armour", Sattentau QJ, incorporated herein by reference), and
the target antigen can comprise such a target epitope.
The present invention provides vertebrates that can artificially simulate those naturally-occurring
human long HCDR3 antibodies, and can provide antibody, heavy chain and variable domain
repertoires from which can be selected an antibody, heavy chain or variable domain having a long
HCDR3 (eg, having a HCDR3 length of 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30 or more amino acids
(according to IMGT). The invention provides for the combination of human VH, D and J gene
repertoires upstream of non-human vertebrate (eg, mouse or rat, eg, endogenous mouse or rat)
constant region in heavy chain loci comprised by the vertebrate genomes. This enables the
recombination, maturation and selection of the human gene segments in the context of endogenous
or other non-vertebrate constant regions which enhances the development of good sized antibody,
heavy chain and variable domain repertoires from which to select long HCDR3-type binding sites.
Thus, in an example of any configuration of the invention, the human gene segments are provided in
a heavy chain locus upstream of a non-human vertebrate (eg, endogenous) constant region. Similarly
any antibody of the invention comprises human variable domains and non-human vertebrate (eg,
endogenous) domains. The latter can be replaced by human constant domains after selection and
isolation.
                                                  51
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

For example, the following antibodies of the invention are contemplated (eg, produced in a vertebrate
of this aspect of the invention by a method disclosed herein) or a copy or derivative of an antibody so
produced:
An isolated, synthetic or recombinant antibody comprising human heavy chain variable domains
having a HCDR3 length of 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30 or more amino acids (according
to IMGT), the heavy chain variable domains being derived from the recombination of a human VH
gene segment selected from a VH group disclosed herein with a human D gene segment and a
human JH gene segment (optionally a JH6), wherein the antibody binds a target antigen; wherein the
heavy chain variable domains have non-human vertebrate AID-pattern somatic hypermutations, (eg,
mouse or rat AID-pattern mutations) when compared to corresponding human germline V, D and J
sequences and/or non-human (eg, mouse or rat) terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT)- pattern
junctional mutations when compared to corresponding human germline V, D and J sequences. In an
example, the antibody of the invention has a HCDR3 length of 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29 or
30 amino acids (according to IMGT). In an example, the antigen is an antigen of a pathogen that
causes or is implicated in a human infectious disease or condition, eg, a pathogen listed in Table 1. In
an example, the antibody specifically binds an active site or cleft of an antigen (eg, an enzyme active
site or receptor cleft). This can be determined, eg, using standard X-ray crystallography of a complex
of the antibody (or heavy chain or VH domain) with the cognate antigen, as is known to the skilled
person.
Mouse AID-pattern somatic hypermutations and/or mouse dTd-pattern mutations can be provided, for
example, wherein VH domain is produced in a mouse comprising mouse AID and/or mouse TdT (eg,
endogenous AID or TdT). See also Annu. Rev. Biochem. 2007. 76:1-22; Javier M. Di Noia and
Michael S. Neuberger, "Molecular Mechanisms of Antibody Somatic Hypermutation" (in particular
figure 1 and associated discussion on AID hotspots in mouse); and Curr Opin Immunol. 1995
Apr;7(2):248-54, "Somatic hypermutation", Neuberger MS and Milstein C (in particular, discussion on
hotspots in mouse), the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference. Such mice can be
made using corresponding mouse ES cell technology.
In an example, the antibody specifically binds to a HIV antigen. Several naturally-occurring human
antibodies are known to be neutralising of HIV and have rather long HCDR3 lengths (20 amino acids
or more according to IMGT; see Breden et al, PLoS One. 2011 Mar 30;6(3):e16857; "Comparison of
antibody repertoires produced by HIV-1 infection, other chronic and acute infections, and systemic
autoimmune disease" (incorporated herein by reference) - VH1-69 preferred for long HCDR3). See
also PLoS One. 2012;7(5):e36750. Epub 2012 May 9; "Human peripheral blood antibodies with long
HCDR3s are established primarily at original recombination using a limited subset of germline genes";
Briney BS e al (incorporated herein by reference). Thus, it is desirable to provide antibodies of the
invention that have similarly long HCDR3 lengths. The antibody of the invention is, in one example,
provided for treating and/or preventing HIV infection, eg, chronic HIV infection, in a human. The
invention also provides a method of treating and/or preventing HIV infection, eg, chronic HIV infection,
in a human, the method comprising administering a pharmaceutically acceptable dose of the antibody
of the invention. The dose can be split into one or more administration aliquots, eg, administered over
a time course according to a medically-determined regimen, as the skilled person will be able to
determine.
                                                   52
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

In an example, the antibody specifically binds to Hemophilus influenza type b polysaccharide. The
antibody of the invention is, in one example, provided for treating and/or preventing Hemophilus
influenza infection, eg, chronic Hemophilus influenza infection, in a human. The invention also
provides a method of treating and/or preventing Hemophilus influenza infection, eg, chronic
Hemophilus influenza infection, in a human, the method comprising administering a pharmaceutically
acceptable dose of the antibody of the invention. The dose can be split into one or more
administration aliquots, eg, administered over a time course according to a medically- determined
regimen, as the skilled person will be able to determine.
In an example, the antibody specifically binds to a rotavirus antigen (eg, protein 6 or 7). The antibody
of the invention is, in one example, provided for treating and/or preventing rotavirus infection, eg,
chronic rotavirus infection, in a human. The invention also provides a method of treating and/or
preventing rotavirus infection, eg, chronic rotavirus infection, in a human, the method comprising
administering a pharmaceutically acceptable dose of the antibody of the invention. The dose can be
split into one or more administration aliquots, eg, administered over a time course according to a
medically-determined regimen, as the skilled person will be able to determine.
In an example, the antibody specifically binds to a cytomegalovirus antigen (eg, cytomegalovirus gB
antigen). The antibody of the invention is, in one example, provided for treating and/or preventing
cytomegalovirus infection, eg, chronic cytomegalovirus infection, in a human. The invention also
provides a method of treating and/or preventing cytomegalovirus infection, eg, chronic
cytomegalovirus infection, in a human, the method comprising administering a pharmaceutical^
acceptable dose of the antibody of the invention. The dose can be split into one or more
administration aliquots, eg, administered over a time course according to a medically-determined
regimen, as the skilled person will be able to determine.
The invention also provides a vertebrate or cell for expressing such an antibody; thus the invention
provides a non-human vertebrate (eg, a mouse or a rat) or a non-human vertebrate cell (eg, a mouse
cell or a rat cell) whose genome comprises a human immunoglobulin VH gene segment repertoire
that is biased to one, more or all human VH gene segments selected from a VH group disclosed
herein.
The invention also provides a method of isolating an antibody that binds a HIV antigen, Hemophilus
influenza type b polysaccharide, cytomegalovirus antigen or rotavirus antigen, the method comprising
(a)          providing the human VH biased vertebrate of the invention;
(b)          immunising           said vertebrate with said   HIV antigen, Hemophilus influenza  type  b
             polysaccharide, cytomegalovirus antigen or rotavirus antigen;
(c)          removing B lymphocytes from the vertebrate and selecting one or more B lymphocytes
             expressing antibodies that bind to the antigen;
(d)          optionally immortalising said selected B lymphocytes or progeny thereof, optionally by
             producing hybridomas therefrom; and
                                                           53
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

(e)          isolating an antibody (eg, and IgG-type antibody) expressed by the B lymphocytes, wherein
             the antibody has a HCDR3 length of 20 amino acids or more.
Optionally, the method further comprises the step of isolating from said B lymphocytes nucleic acid
encoding said antibody that binds said antigen; optionally exchanging the heavy chain constant
region nucleotide sequence of the antibody with a nucleotide sequence encoding a human or
humanised heavy chain constant region and optionally affinity maturing the variable region of said
antibody; and optionally inserting said nucleic acid into an expression vector and optionally a host.
Optionally, the method further comprises making a copy, mutant or derivative (eg, humanised
version) of the antibody produced by the method.
This aspect of the invention also provides
A pharmaceutical composition comprising the anti-HIV antibody, for treating and/or preventing HIV in
a human (eg, an infant human).
A pharmaceutical composition comprising the anti-Hemophilus influenza type b polysaccharide
antibody, for treating and/or preventing Haemophilus influenza in a human (eg, an infant human).
A pharmaceutical composition comprising the anti-rotavirus antibody, for treating and/or preventing
rotavirus in a human (eg, an infant human).
A pharmaceutical composition comprising the anti- cytomegalovirus antibody, for treating and/or
preventing cytomegalovirus in a human (eg, an infant human).
The invention also provides a method of generating such an antibody (eg, any one of embodiments (i)
et seq above) by immunising a vertebrate of the invention with the target antigen and isolating the
antibody from the vertebrate, optionally also making a copy or derivative of the antibody. In a further
step, a B-cell capable of expressing the antibody is isolated from the vertebrate. In a further step, a
nucleic acid encoding the antibody (or a VH domain thereof) is isolated from the vertebrate (eg, a
nucleic acid PCR cloned from a B-cell isolated from the vertebrate).
In an example, the antibody of the invention is a neutralising antibody. In an example, the antibody of
the invention has a HCDR3 length of 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30 or more amino acids
(according to IMGT). In an example, the antibody of the invention has a HCDR3 length of 20, 21, 22,
23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29 or 30 amino acids (according to IMGT). In an example, the antibody of the
invention is isolated from a non-human vertebrate (eg, a mouse or a rat), for example a vertebrate of
the invention; or the antibody is a copy or derivative (eg, humanised version) thereof. In an example,
the antibody of the invention has non-human vertebrate constant regions (eg, mouse or rat constant
regions); these may be replaced using standard recombinant DNA technology with human constant
regions, so the invention also provides for human versions of the antibodies recited above, wherein
the human antibody comprises human variable and constant regions, wherein the variable regions
bind the antigen. In an example, the antibody of the has lambda-type human light chain variable
domains. In another example, the antibody of the invention has kappa-type human light chain variable
domains.
                                                      54
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

Antibody competition can be determined, for example, by ELISA or surface plasmon resonance (SPR;
eg, by competition Biacore TM or Proteon) as is standard.
The invention also provides the following embodiments (recited below as numbered clauses):
D Bias
1.           A non-human vertebrate (eg, a mouse or a rat) or a non-human vertebrate cell (eg, a mouse
             cell or a rat cell) whose genome comprises a human immunoglobulin D gene segment
             repertoire that is biased to the human D2 and/or D3 family or biased to one, more or all
             human D gene segments selected from the group D1-26, D2-2, D3-9, D3-10, D3-22, D4-17,
             D6-13 and D6-19.
             For example, the repertoire consists of only human D gene segments from the D2 and/or D3
             family.
             Optionally the repertoire is biased to one or more of human D2-2, D2-15, D3-3, D3-9, D3-10
             and D3- 22, or the repertoire consists of one, more or all of these D gene segments. These
             produce long HCDR3 lengths (eg, see Table 2 and references cited herein).
             For example, the repertoire is biased to one or more of human of D2-2*02, D3-9*01, D3
             10*01 and D3-22*01, or the repertoire consists of one, more or all of these D gene segments.
             For example, the repertoire is biased to one or more of human D2-2*02, D3-9*01 and D3
             10*01, or the repertoire consists of one, more or all of these D gene segments.
             For example, the repertoire is biased to D3-9*01 and D3-1 0*01, or consists of one, more or all
             of these D gene segments.
             Optionally the repertoire consists of one, more or all of human D1-26, D2-2, D3-9, D3-1 0, D3
             22, D4- 17, D6-13 and D6-19. These produce long HCDR3 lengths (eg, see Table 2).
             Optionally the repertoire is biased to one or more of human D1-26*01, D2-2*02, D3-9*01, D3
             10*01, D3-22*01, D4-17*01, D6-13*01 and D6-19*01, or the repertoire consists of one, more
             or all of these D gene segments.
             Optionally the repertoire is biased to one or more of human D2-2, D3-9, D3-1 0, D3-22, D4-17,
             D6-13 and D6-19, or the repertoire consists of one, more or all of these D gene segments.
             Optionally the repertoire is biased to one or more of human D2-2*02, D3-9*01, D3-1 0*01, D3
             22*01, D4-17*01, D6-13*01 and D6-19*01, or the repertoire consists of one, more or all of
             these D gene segments. These produce long HCDR3 lengths in naive repertoires (eg, see
             Table 2).
             Optionally the repertoire is biased to one or more of human D1-26, D2-2, D3-10 and D6-19,
             or the repertoire consists of one, more or all of these D gene segments. Optionally the
             repertoire is biased to one or more of human D1-26*01, D2-2*02, D3-10*01 and D6-19*01, or
                                                        55
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

             the repertoire consists of one, more or all of these D gene segments. These produce long
             HCDR3 lengths in immunised repertoires (eg, see Table 2).
             Optionally the repertoire is biased to one or more of human D2-2, D3-9 and D3-10, or the
             repertoire consists of one, more or all of these D gene segments. Optionally the repertoire is
             biased to one or more of human D2-2*02, D3-9*01 and D3-10*01, or the repertoire consists of
             one, more or all of these D gene segments. These produce long HCDR3 lengths in antigen
             specific repertoires (eg, see Table 2).
             IMGT nomenclature is used for all gene segments.
             Throughout this text, Genbank is a reference to Genbank release number 185.0 or 191.0; the
             1000 Genomes database is Phase 1, release v3, 16th March 2012; the Ensembl database is
             assembly GRCh37.p8 (10/04/2012); the IMGT database is available at www.imgt.org . The
             sequences of all VH gene segments explicitly mentioned herein are disclosed herein in their
             entirety (for possible inclusion in clauses in conjunction with any aspect of the invention as
             clauseed), such sequences being those in the IMGT and 1000 Genomes databases.
             In one embodiment, the genome comprises an IgH locus comprising a targeted insertion of
             said human D gene segments. In an example, the IgH locus comprises (in 5' to 3' order) one
             or more human VH gene segments, said D gene segment repertoire, one or more human JH
             gene segments and a constant region (eg, wherein the constant region is a human constant
             region or a non-human (eg, endogenous, eg, mouse or rat) constant region).
             In another embodiment, the genome comprises said human D gene segments randomly
             inserted therein. This can be effected, eg, by incorporating human DNA borne by YACS into
             the genome of ES cells (followed optionally by generation of a non-human vertebrate
             therefrom, as is standard).
             Optionally, the human D gene segment repertoire further comprises no more than 5 additional
             human D gene segments, for example, the repertoire includes 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 additional human
             D gene segments.
2.           The vertebrate or cell of clause 1, wherein the D gene segment repertoire consists of or
             substantially consists of one, two or three human gene segments selected from the group D1
             26, D2-2, D3-9, D3-10, D3-22, D4-17, D6-13 and D6-19.
3.           The vertebrate or cell of clause 1 or 2, wherein the genome comprises an unrearranged
             immunoglobulin heavy chain locus comprising (in 5' to 3' order) human VH, D and JH gene
             segments and said human D gene segments recited in clause 1 are spaced from the VH
             gene segment(s) by no more than four other D gene segments (eg, by no D gene segments).
             This provides for bias wherein proximal D gene segments (those more 3', ie, closer to the
             constant region) are likely to be more frequently used than those segments from distal (ie, 5'
             or further away from the constant region).
                                                         56
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

4.           The vertebrate or cell of any preceding clause, wherein the genome comprises an
             unrearranged immunoglobulin heavy chain locus comprising said human D gene segments
             and there are no other D gene segments in the locus between said human D gene segments.
             This is another way of biasing the repertoire of D gene segments. Thus, the desired Ds are
             provided in tandem, aimed to promote use in recombination.
5.           The vertebrate or cell of any preceding clause, wherein the genome comprises three or more
             copies of a human D gene segment selected from D1-26, D2-2, D2-15, D3-3, D3-9, D3-10,
             D3-22, D4-17, D6-13 and D6-19.
             For example, the genome comprises three or more copies of a human D gene segment
             selected from D1-26, D2-2, D3-9, D3-10, D3-22, D4-17, D6-13 and D6-19.
             This is another way of biasing the repertoire of D gene segments.
6.           The vertebrate or cell of clause 5, wherein the genome comprises first and second human D
             gene segments selected from D1-26, D2-2, D2-15, D3-3, D3-9, D3-10, D3-22, D4-17, D6-13
             and D6-19 when the first D gene segment is present as three or more copies and wherein the
             second D gene segment is present as three or more copies.
             For example, the first and second gene segments are selected from D1-26, D2-2, D3-9, D3
             10, D3-22, D4-17, D6-13 and D6-19.
             The various gene segment biasing techniques described herein can be performed using
             conventional DNA manipulation in the construction of transgenic vertebrates or cells of the
             invention, which techniques (eg, recombineering and recombinant DNA technology) will be
             known to the skilled person. For example, BACs can be constructed using these techniques
             in which the desired combination of human gene segments is provided, and these BACs can
             be introduced into ES cells for incorporation of the human gene segments into the genomes
             thereof (eg, by targeted insertion into Ig loci). The ES cells can be used to generate
             transgenic vertebrates as is standard and cells (eg, B-cells) can be isolated from these
             wherein the genome is as per the invention.
             In one embodiment, the biased D gene segment(s) are selected from the IMGT database of
             variants or the 1000 Genomes database.
7.           The vertebrate or cell of any preceding clause, wherein the D gene segments are selected
             from D2-2*02, D3-9*01, D3-10*01 and D3-22*01, or selected from D1-26*01, D2-2*02, D3
             9*01, D3- 10*01, D3-22*01, D4-17*01, D6-13*01 and D6-19*01.
VH Bias
8.           A non-human vertebrate (eg, a mouse or a rat) or a non-human vertebrate cell (eg, a mouse
             cell or a rat cell), optionally according to any preceding clause, whose genome comprises a
             human immunoglobulin VH gene segment repertoire that is biased to one, more or all of gene
                                                          57
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

             segments selected from the group VH1-2, VH1-3, VH1-8, VH1-18, VH5-51, VH1-69, VH2-5,
             VH3-7, VH3-9, VH3-1 1, VH3-13, VH3-20, VH3-21, VH3-23, VH4-4, VH6-1 and VH7-4-1.
             These produce long HCDR3 lengths (see Table 2 and references cited herein).
             For example, the VH repertoire is biased to one, more or all of VH1-2, VH1-3, VH1-8, VH1
             18, VH2-5, VH3-7, VH3-9, VH3-11, VH3-13, VH3-20, VH3-21, VH3-23, VH4-4, VH6-1 and
             VH7-4-1. These produce long HCDR3 lengths (see Table 2), or the repertoire consists of one,
             more or all of these VH gene segments. For example, the VH repertoire is biased to one,
             more or all of VH1- 2*02, VH1-3*01, VH1-8*01, VH1-1 8*01, VH2-5*1 0, VH3-7*01, VH3-9*01,
             VH3-11*01, VH3- 13*01, VH3-21*03, VH3-23*04, VH4-4*02, VH6-1*01 and VH7-4-1*01, or
             the repertoire consists of one, more or all of these VH gene segments.
             For example, the VH repertoire is biased to one, more or all of VH1-2*02, VH1-8*01, VH1
             18*01, VH1-3*01, VH2-5*10, VH3-7*01, VH3-9*01, VH3-13*01, VH3-21*03, VH3-23*04, VH4
             4*02, VH6-1*01 and VH7-4-1*01, or the repertoire consists of one, more or all of these VH
             gene segments. These produce long HCDR3 lengths in naive repertoires (see Table 2).
             For example, the VH repertoire is biased to one, more or all of VH4-4*02, VH3-11*01 and
             VH3- 7*01, or the repertoire consists of one, more or all of these VH gene segments. These
             produce long HCDR3 lengths in immunised repertoires (see Table 2).
             For example, the VH repertoire is biased to one, more or all of VH1-3*01, VH1-8*01, VH3
             7*01, VH3-9*01, VH3-1 1*01 and VH4-4*02, or the repertoire consists of one, more or all of
             these VH gene segments. These produce long HCDR3 lengths in antigen-specific repertoires
             (see Table 2).
             Optionally, the human VH gene segment repertoire further comprises no more than 5
             additional human VH gene segments, for example, the repertoire includes 1, 2,3, 4 or 5
             additional human VH gene segments.
             In one embodiment, the genome comprises an IgH locus comprising a targeted insertion of
             said human VH gene segments. In an example, the IgH locus comprises (in 5' to 3' order)
             said VH gene segment repertoire, one or more human D gene segments, one or more human
             JH gene segments and a constant region (eg, wherein the constant region is a human
             constant region or a non-human (eg, endogenous, eg, mouse or rat) constant region).
             In another embodiment, the genome comprises said human VH gene segments randomly
             inserted therein. This can be effected, eg, by incorporating human DNA borne by YACS into
             the genome of ES cells (followed optionally by generation of a non-human vertebrate
             therefrom, as is standard).
9.           The vertebrate or cell of clause 8, wherein the VH gene segment repertoire substantially
             consists of or substantially consists of one, two or three human gene segments selected from
             VH1-2, VH1-3, VH1-8, VH1-18, VH5-51, VH1-69, VH2-5, VH3-7, VH3-9, VH3-11, VH3-13,
             VH3-20, VH3-21, VH3-23, VH4-4, VH6-1 and VH7-4-1.
                                                         58
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

             For example, the VH gene segment repertoire substantially consists of or substantially
             consists of one, two or three human gene segments selected from the group consisting of
             VH1-2*02, VH1-3*01, VH1-8*01, VH1-18*01, VH2-5*10, VH3-7*01, VH3-9*01, VH3-11*01,
             VH3-13*01, VH3-21*03, VH3-23*04, VH4-4*02, VH6-1*01 and VH7-4-1*01.
10.          The vertebrate or cell of clause 8 or 9, wherein the genome comprises an unrearranged
             immunoglobulin heavy chain locus comprising (in 5' to 3' order) human VH, D and JH gene
             segments and said human VH gene segments are spaced from the D gene segment(s) by no
             more than four other VH gene segments (eg, by no VH gene segments).
             This provides for bias wherein proximal VH gene segments (those more 3', ie, closer to the
             constant region) are likely to be more frequently used than those segments from distal (ie, 5'
             or further away from the constant region).
11.          The vertebrate or cell of any one of clauses 8 to 10, wherein the genome comprises an
             unrearranged immunoglobulin heavy chain locus comprising said human VH gene segments
             and there are no other VH gene segments in the locus between said human VH gene
             segments.
             This is another way of biasing the repertoire of VH gene segments.
12.          The vertebrate or cell of any one of clauses 8 to 11, wherein the genome comprises three or
             more copies of a human VH gene segment selected from the group consisting of VH1-2,
             VH1-3, VH1-8, VH1-18, VH5-51, VH1-69, VH2-5, VH3-7, VH3-9, VH3-11, VH3-13, VH3-20,
             VH3-21, VH3- 23, VH4-4, VH6-1 and VH7-4-1.
             For example, the genome comprises three or more copies of a human VH gene segment
             selected from the group consisting of VH1-2*02, VH1-3*01, VH1-8*01, VH1-18*01, VH2-5*10,
             VH3-7*01, VH3-9*01, VH3-11*01, VH3-13*01, VH3-21*03, VH3-23*04, VH4-4*02, VH6-1*01
             and VH7-4- 1*01.
             This is another way of biasing the repertoire of VH gene segments.
13.          The vertebrate or cell of clause 12, wherein the genome comprises first and second human
             VH gene segments selected from the group consisting of VH1-2, VH1-3, VH1-8, VH1-18,
             VH5-51, VH1-69, VH2-5, VH3-7, VH3-9, VH3-11, VH3-13, VH3-20, VH3-21, VH3-23, VH4-4,
             VH6-1 and VH7-4-1 when the first VH gene segment is present as three or more copies and
             wherein the second VH gene segment is present as three or more copies.
             For example, the genome comprises first and second human VH gene segments selected
             from the group consisting of VH1-2*02, VH1-3*01, VH1-8*01, VH1-18*01, VH2-5*10, VH3
             7*01, VH3- 9*01, VH3-11*01, VH3-13*01, VH3-21*03, VH3-23*04, VH4-4*02, VH6-1*01 and
             VH7-4-1*01 when the first VH gene segment is present as three or more copies and wherein
             the second VH gene segment is present as three or more copies.
                                                        59
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

             In an embodiment, all or substantially all of VH gene segments are present as three or more
             copies each.
             The various gene segment biasing techniques described herein can be performed using
             conventional DNA manipulation in the construction of transgenic vertebrates or cells of the
             invention, which techniques (eg, recombineering and recombinant DNA technology) will be
             known to the skilled person. For example, BACs can be constructed using these techniques
             in which the desired combination of human gene segments is provided, and these BACs can
             be introduced into ES cells for incorporation of the human gene segments into the genomes
             thereof (eg, by targeted insertion into Ig loci). The ES cells can be used to generate
             transgenic vertebrates as is standard and cells (eg, B-cells) can be isolated from these
             wherein the genome is as per the invention.
             In one embodiment, the biased D gene segment(s) are selected from the IMGT database of
             variants or the 1000 Genomes database.
14.          The vertebrate or cell of any one of clauses 8 to 13, wherein the VH gene segments are
             selected from the group consisting of VH1-2*02, VH1-3*01, VH1-8*01, VH1-18*01, VH2-5*10,
             VH3-7*01, VH3-9*01, VH3-11*01, VH3-13*01, VH3-21*03, VH3-23*04, VH4-4*02, VH6-1*01
             and VH7-4- 1*01.
             In an embodiment, the genome comprises a human immunoglobulin VH gene segment
             repertoire that is biased to VH1-69.
             In an embodiment, the human immunoglobulin VH gene segment repertoire substantially
             consists of one or more human VH1-69 gene segments.
             The gene segments are provided in one or more immunoglobulin loci. For example, the gene
             segment repertoire (D and/or VH) is provided in both IgH loci (ie, in a homozygous state).
15.          The vertebrate or cell of any one of clauses 8 to 16, comprising an immunoglobulin heavy
             chain locus comprising two or more copies of a VH gene segment selected from said group.
             Thus, at least one of said copies is closer to the constant region of the locus than the
             germline distance in a human from a human constant region. The aim is to provide by bias by
             providing more than one copy on the same locus. Also as at least one of the copies is closer
             (more proximal to) the constant region and J-C intron (which includes regulatory elements
             such as the Emu enhancer region), this may favour use of the gene segment, thus
             contributing to the desired bias.
             Optionally, the genome is homozygous for the heavy chain locus.
             Optionally the two or more copies of gene segments are identical (eg, all VH1-69*01, using
             IMGT nomenclature). In another example, copies are variants of each other, eg, naturally
             occuring human variants. Alternatively, synthetic variants may be used with or without a
             naturally- occuring variant.
                                                        60
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

             In any embodiment of the invention, the vertebrate is naive or immunised with a target
             antigen.
16.          The vertebrate or cell of any clause, wherein the genome comprises a human JH gene
             segment repertoire consisting of one or more human JH6 gene segments.
             This biases the JH repertoire for the production of long HCDR3, since this is the longest
             naturally- occurring human JH gene segment type and is commonly found in naturally
             occurring human antibodies having long HCDR3.
             For example, the repertoire comprises two or more different JH6 variants. In an example, the
             repertoire comprises two or more JH6*02 variants (IMGT nomenclature).
17.          The vertebrate or cell of any preceding clause, wherein the genome comprises a human
             immunoglobulin JH gene segment repertoire that is biased to JH6, optionally JH6*02.
18.          The vertebrate or cell of clause 17, wherein the JH gene segment repertoire consists or
             substantially consists of three or more human JH6 gene segments.
19.          The vertebrate or cell of any preceding clause, wherein the sequence of each of said human
             gene segments is a human germline gene segment sequence.
20.          The vertebrate or cell of any preceding clause, wherein one, more or all of the selected gene
             segments are present in the genome as two or more copies, the copies being variants of
             each other.
             Thus, one, more or all of the human V, D and JH gene segments of said genome is present in
             two or more variant versions, such as naturally-occurring human variants, eg, variants found
             in the 1000 Genomes database and/or IMGT database. In another example, one or more of
             the variants may be a synthetic variant.
21.          The vertebrate or cell of any preceding clause, wherein said human gene segments are
             provided by homozygous immunoglobulin heavy chain loci.
             In an example, no other (non-human) active heavy chain VH, D or JH gene segments are
             present in heavy chain loci of the genome. Additionally, in an example no active non-human
             light chain VL or JL gene segments are present in the genome.
             This is useful for ensuring that endogenous (non-human) variable region expression is
             inactivated. Thus, all heavy chains produced by the vertebrate or cell will have human
             variable regions, which is useful for producing drugs for administration to humans.
22.          A non-human vertebrate (eg, a mouse or a rat) or a non-human vertebrate cell (eg, a mouse
             cell or a rat cell) whose genome comprises a human immunoglobulin VH gene segment
             repertoire, one or more human D gene segments and one or more human JH gene
             segments, wherein the VH repertoire does not comprise one, more or all VH gene segments
                                                        61
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

             selected from the group VH1-2, VH1-3, VH1-8, VH1-18, VH5-51, VH1-69, VH2-5, VH3-7,
             VH3-9, VH3-1 1, VH3-13, VH3-20, VH3-21, VH3-23, VH4-4, VH6-1 and VH7-4-1.
23.          A non-human vertebrate (eg, a mouse or a rat) or a non-human vertebrate cell (eg, a mouse
             cell or a rat cell) whose genome comprises a human immunoglobulin D gene segment
             repertoire, one or more human VH gene segments and one or more human JH gene
             segments, wherein the D repertoire does not comprise one, more or all D gene segments
             selected from the group D1- 26, D2-2, D3-9, D3-10, D3-22, D4-17, D6-13 and D6-19.
             In instances it has been observed in that the art that certain human gene usage may
             dominate the immune response to infectious disease pathogen antigens or other antigens.
             While this may yield many specific antibodies, typically these may not be neutralising and
             thus the immune response is relatively ineffective. This may happen, for example, where the
             antigen is a decoy antigen expressed by the pathogen. The present embodiments of the
             invention where specific gene segments are omitted are useful for avoiding dominance of
             certain human gene segments, such as those omitted from the genome. In this way, the
             genome human gene segment repertoire is biased away from the dominance and this
             enables better use and sampling of the remaining human gene segment sequence space,
             thereby providing the chance of producing antibodies that may not be normally raised in a
             natural setting. Antigen specific antibodies can be selected from vertebrates and cells with
             such genomes. In some examples, this may yield neutralising antibodies.
             It is advantageous to include a plurality of different human VH gene segments, making up the
             human VH gene segment repertoire. This provides for good diversities of rearranged human
             variable regions from which to select leads. It is possible, for example, to include an otherwise
             complete, functional repertoire of human VH gene segments. To this end, the human VH
             gene segment repertoire comprises, in one example, a plurality of human VH gene segments,
             eg, at least 7, 10, 15, 20, 15, 30, 35, 40 or 45 different human VH gene segments. This can
             be achieved, for example, using BACs harbouring stretches of unrearranged human variable
             region DNA comprising VH gene segments - homologous recombination and/or sRMCE
             being used to insert several stretches of such DNA from serial BACs into an endogenous
             heavy chain locus upstream of the constant region thereof in the genome of a non-human
             vertebrate ES cell (eg, mouse or rat ES cell), followed by development of one or more
             progeny vertebrates from such cells (and optional breeding to homozygosity of the heavy
             chain locus). In one embodiment, human DNA is inserted that includes a first human VH (eg,
             VH1-69 and/or VH1-2) and flanking VH gene segments upstream and downstream of these.
             In a second ES cell genomic manipulation, the first VH is deleted from the genome, eg, using
             standard homolgous recombination techniques as is known in the art. In this way, one or
             more VH gene segments usually upstream and/or downstream of the deleted gene
             segment(s) in a wild-type human germline genome are retained so that they can be available
             to contribute to the subsequent rearranged human V region repertoire that is used for
             selection of leads. In another example, the initial insertion of human DNA is made using
             stretches of DNA that already omit the first VH (eg, by deleting such stretches using
             recombineering of BACs in E coli, as is known in the art). Similar techniques can be used
             (with appropriate BACs) for the omission of human D and/or J gene segments.
                                                         62
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

             Thus, in an embodiment, VH gene segments that normally are upstream and/or downstream
             of the omitted human VH gene segments (or omitted D or J as per other embodiments) in a
             wild-type germline human genome are included in the vertebrate or cell of the invention. For
             example, the human VH gene segment repertoire of the genome in the invention does not
             comprise VH1-69, but does comprise one, two, three or four human VH gene segments
             selected from VH2-10, VH3-72, VH3-73 and VH3-74. These are gene segments that are
             immediately upstream of VH1-69 in a wild- type human germline heavy chain locus (see
             IMGT). For example, additionally or alternatively the human VH gene segment repertoire of
             the genome in the invention does not comprise VH1-69, but does comprise one, two, three,
             four or more (or all of) human VH gene segments selected from VH3-66, VH3-64, VH4-61,
             VH4-59, VH1-58, VH3-53, VH3-49, VH3-48, VH1-46 and VH1-45. These are gene segments
             that are immediately downstream of VH1-69 in a wild-type human germline heavy chain locus
             (see IMGT). Additionally or alternatively, the human VH gene segment repertoire of the
             genome in the invention does not comprise VH1-69, but does comprise one, two, three , four
             or more (or all of) human VH gene segments selected from VH2-5, 7-41, 4-4, 1-3, 1-2 and 6
             1. Additionally or alternatively, the human VH gene segment repertoire of the genome in the
             invention does not comprise VH1-69, but does comprise one, two, three, four, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10
             or more (or all of) human VH gene segments selected from VH2-5, 7-41, 4-4, 1-3, 1-2, 6-1, 3
             7, 1-8, 3-9, 3-11 and 3,13. Additionally or alternatively, the human VH gene segment
             repertoire of the genome in the invention does not comprise VH1-69, but does comprise one,
             two, three , four, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 or more (or all of) human VH gene
             segments selected from VH2-5, 7-41, 4-4, 1,3, 1-2, 6-1, 3-7, 1-8, 3-9, 3-11, 3-13, 3-15, 1-18,
             3-20, 3-21, 3-23, 1-24 and 2-26. Additionally or alternatively, the human VH gene segment
             repertoire of the genome in the invention does not comprise VH1-69, but does comprise VH6
             1 (which is commonly used in human immune responses, VH6-1 being the most proximal to
             the constant region in a wild-type human germline heavy chain locus) and/or VH3-23 (which
             is commonly used in human immune responses). In embodiment (eg, for generating VH,
             heavy chains or antibodies for treating and/or preventing an infectious disease, eg, HIV
             infection, in a human), VH1-2 is omitted in the genome or locus. In this case one, two, three
             or all human VH gene segments immediately 5' and 3' of VH1-2 in a wild-type germline
             human IgH locus (eg, see IMGT) are included in the genome, such as comprised by the same
             IgH locus upstream of human D and JH gene segments and a constant region.
24.          The vertebrate or cell of clause 22 or 23, wherein the genome comprises a human JH gene
             segment repertoire that does not comprise JH6.
             JH Bias
25.          A non-human vertebrate (eg, a mouse or a rat) or a non-human vertebrate cell (eg, a mouse
             cell or a rat cell) whose genome comprises a human immunoglobulin JH gene segment
             repertoire that is biased to human JH6.
             In an example, the repertoire is biased to human JH6*02 (IMGT nomenclature). So, the
             inventors made a choice of human JH6*02 on the basis of
                                                           63
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

             (i)            Containing YYG and YYGXDX motifs that is conserved across several vertebrate
                            species;
             (ii)           Provision of one less TAC codon than other human JH6 variant (an AID hotspot that
                            risks stop codons) and a choice instead of a codon that preserves the YYG and
                            YYGXDX motifs;
             (iii)          Avoidance of a GGCA AID hotspot in the region of the HCDR3/FW4 junction; and
             (iv)           Common occurrence (and thus conservation and acceptability) in humans of the
                            JH6*02 variant.
26.          The vertebrate or cell of clause 25, wherein the genome comprises an unrearranged
             immunoglobulin heavy chain locus comprising a plurality of human JH6 gene segments;
             optionally wherein the genome is homozygous for said locus.
             In an example, the plurality comprises or consists of a plurality of JH6*02 gene segments.
27.          The vertebrate or cell of clause 26, wherein the heavy chain locus comprises (in 5' to 3' order)
             human VH, D and JH gene segments and said JH6 gene segments are spaced from the D
             gene segment(s) by no more than two other JH gene segments.
28.          The vertebrate or cell of clause 25, 26 or 27, wherein are no other JH gene segments in the
             locus between said human JH6 gene segments.
29.          A non-human vertebrate (eg, a mouse or a rat) or a non-human vertebrate cell (eg, a mouse
             cell or a rat cell) whose genome comprises a human immunoglobulin JH gene segment
             repertoire that consists of one or more human JH6 gene segments.
             In an example, all of the gene segments are JH6*02 gene segments.
30.          The vertebrate or cell of any one of clauses 25 to 29, wherein all of said gene segments are
             human germline gene segments.
31.          The vertebrate or cell of any one of clauses 25 to 30, comprising different variant JH6 gene
             segments.
             In an example, the variants are all naturally-occurring (eg, appearing in the IMGT or 1000
             Genome databases). In an other example, one or more variant is synthetic.
32.          The vertebrate or cell of any one of clauses 25 to 31, wherein said gene segments are
             provided by homozygous immunoglobulin heavy chain loci.
             In one embodiment, the biased JH gene segment(s) are selected from the IMGT database of
             variants or the 1000 Genomes database.
                                                            64
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

33.          A monoclonal or polyclonal antibody composition or a population of antibody-producing cells
             for producing such composition, wherein the composition or population is prepared by
             immunising at least one vertebrate according to any preceding clause with an antigen,
             wherein the antibody or antibodies have human heavy chain variable regions comprising non
             human vertebrate AID- pattern somatic hypermutations, (eg, mouse or rat AID-pattern
             mutations) when compared to corresponding human germline V, D and J sequences and/or
             non-human (eg, mouse or rat) terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT)- pattern junctional
             mutations when compared to corresponding human germline V, D and J sequences; wherein
             the composition comprises at least one antigen-specific antibody having a HCDR3 length of
             at least 20 amino acids (according to IMGT).
             As will be readily apparent to the skilled person, AID and TdT mutations can be determined
             using bioinformatics analysis to find the closest matching human germline gene segment(s)
             that correspond to a given variable domain sequence, aligning the sequences and
             determining the differences. AID has known hotspots for mutation (eg, see Annu. Rev.
             Biochem. 2007. 76:1-22; Javier M. Di Noia and Michael S. Neuberger, "Molecular
             Mechanisms of Antibody Somatic Hypermutation" (in particular figure 1 and associated
             discussion on AID hotspots in mouse); and Curr Opin Immunol. 1995 Apr;7(2):248-54,
             "Somatic hypermutation", Neuberger MS and Milstein C (in particular, discussion on hotspots
             in mouse), the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference). By carrying out the
             standard bioinformatics analysis, TdT mutations (eg, to provide junctional muatations and
             diversity) can be determined, as will be familiar to the skilled person.
             Corresponding human germline V, D and J sequences can be according to the IMGT
             database or 1000 Genomes database, for example.
             For example, the HCDR3 length is at least 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29 or 30 amino
             acids.
             For example, the HCDR3 length is from 20 to 23 or 24 to 30, eg, from 28 to 30 amino acids.
             For example, the cells are B cells (eg, immortalised B cells) or hybridomas.
             Optionally the antibodies of any aspect of the invention comprise human light chain variable
             regions. For example, the human light chain variable regions have non-human vertebrate
             AID- pattern somatic hypermutations, (eg, mouse or rat AID-pattern mutations) when
             compared to corresponding human germline V, D and J sequences and/or non-human (eg,
             mouse or rat) terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT)- pattern junctional mutations when
             compared to corresponding human germline V, D and J sequences.
34.          An isolated antibody that specifically binds an antigen, the antibody comprising human heavy
             chain variable regions and non-human constant regions, wherein the variable regions are
             derived from the recombination in a non-human vertebrate of (i) a human VH gene segment
             selected from the group recited in clause 8 with (ii) a human D gene segment selected from
             the group recited in clause 1 and with a human JH gene segment (optionally JH6); wherein
             the antibody has a HCDR3 length of at least 20 amino acids (according to IMGT); and non
                                                        65
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

             human vertebrate AID-pattern somatic hypermutations, (eg, mouse or rat AID-pattern
             mutations) when compared to corresponding human germline V, D and J sequences and/or
             non-human (eg, mouse or rat) terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT)- pattern junctional
             mutations when compared to corresponding human germline V, D and J sequences.
             In examples, the VH is selected from the group VH1-2*02, VH1-3*01, VH1-8*01, VH1-18*01,
             VH2-5*1 0, VH3-7*01, VH3-9*01, VH3-1 1*01, VH3-13*01, VH3-21 *03, VH3-23*04, VH4-4*02,
             VH6-1*01 and VH7-4-1*01 and/or the D is selected from the group D2-2*02, D3-9*01, D3
             10*01 and D3-22*01, or D2-2*02, D3-9*01 and D3-10*01, or D3-9*01 and D3-10*01, or D1
             26, D2-2, D3-9, D3-10, D3-22, D4-17, D6-13 and D6-19, or D1-26*01, D2-2*02, D3-9*01, D3
             10*01, D3-22*01, D4-17*01, D6-13*01 and D6-19*01, or D2-2, D3-9, D3-10, D3-22, D4-17,
             D6-13 and D6-19, or D2-2*02, D3-9*01, D3-10*01, D3-22*01, D4-17*01, D6-13*01 and D6
             19*01, or D1-26, D2-2, D3-10 and D6-19, or D2-2, D3-9 and D3-10.
35.          The antibody of clause 34, wherein the antibody is obtained or obtainable from a vertebrate
             according to any one of clauses 1 to 32.
             In an embodiment, the antibody is obtained from said vertebrate, or is a copy of such an
             antibody.
36.          A method of isolating an antibody that binds a predetermined antigen, the method comprising
             (a)            providing a vertebrate (optionally a mouse or rat) according to any one of clauses 1 to
                            32;
             (b)            immunising said vertebrate with said antigen;
             (c)            removing B lymphocytes from the vertebrate and selecting one or more B
                            lymphocytes expressing antibodies that bind to the antigen;
             (d)            optionally immortalising said selected B lymphocytes or progeny thereof, optionally by
                            producing hybridomas therefrom; and
             (e)            isolating an antibody (eg, and IgG-type antibody) expressed by the B lymphocytes.
37.          The method of clause 36, wherein in step (e) wherein the antibody has a HCDR3 length of at
             least 20 amino acids (according to IMGT).
             The length can be 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29 or 30 amino acids (according to
             IMGT), eg, from 20 to 23 amino acids (a produced in the examples).
38.          The method of clause 36 or 37, comprising the step of isolating from said B lymphocytes
             nucleic acid encoding said antibody that binds said antigen; optionally exchanging the heavy
             chain constant region nucleotide sequence of the antibody with a nucleotide sequence
             encoding a human or humanised heavy chain constant region and optionally affinity maturing
             the variable region of said antibody; and optionally inserting said nucleic acid into an
             expression vector and optionally a host.
                                                               66
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

39.          The method of clause 36, 37 or 38, further comprising making a copy, mutant or derivative
             (eg, humanised version) of the antibody produced by the method.
             Humanisation can entail making the constant regions human.
40.          The antibody composition, cell population, antibody or method of any one of clauses 33 to 39,
             wherein the antigen is an antigen of an infectious disease pathogen; optionally wherein the
             pathogen is a virus or bacterium.
41.          The antibody composition, cell population, antibody or method of clause 40, wherein
             pathogen is selected from the group consisting of Haemophilus influenza, E coli, Neisseria
             meningitidis, a herpes family virus, cytomegalovirus (CMV), HIV and influenza virus.
42.          The antibody composition, cell population, antibody or method of any one of clauses 33 to 41,
             wherein the antigen is a HIV gp120 antigen or a HIV gp41 antigen.
43.          The antibody composition, cell population, antibody or method of any one of clauses 33 to 40,
             wherein the antigen comprises an active site or cleft, wherein the antibody having a HCDR3
             length of at least 20 amino acids specifically binds to the active site or cleft of the antigen.
44.          A pharmaceutical composition comprising an antibody or antibody composition according to
             any one of clauses 33 to 35 and 40 to 43, or an antibody produced by the method of any one
             of clauses 36 to 38, for treating and/or preventing an infectious disease in a human (eg,
             wherein the infectious disease is caused by a pathogen selected from the group consisting of
             Haemophilus influenza, E coli, Neisseria meningitidis, a herpes family virus, cytomegalovirus
             (CMV), HIV and influenza virus).
45.          A repertoire of antibody heavy chains (eg, provided by antibodies) comprising one or more
             heavy chains whose variable domain HCDR3 has a length of at least 20 amino acids
             (according to IMGT) and derived from the recombination of a human VH, D and JH, wherein
             the VH is selected from the group
             VH1-2*02, VH1-3*01, VH1-8*01, VH1-18*01, VH2-5*10, VH3-7*01, VH3-9*01, VH3-11*01,
             VH3- 13*01, VH3-21*03, VH3-23*04, VH4-4*02, VH6-1*01 and VH7-4-1*01 and the D is
             selected from the group D2-2*02, D3-9*01, D3-10*01 and D3-22*01, or D2-2*02, D3-9*01 and
             D3-10*01, or D3-9*01 and D3-10*01, or D1-26, D2-2, D3-9, D3-10, D3-22, D4-17, D6-13 and
             D6-19, or D1-26*01, D2-2*02, D3-9*01, D3-10*01, D3-22*01, D4-17*01, D6-13*01 and D6
             19*01, or D2-2, D3-9, D3-10, D3-22, D4-17, D6-13 and D6-19, or D2-2*02, D3-9*01, D3
             10*01, D3-22*01, D4-17*01, D6-13*01 and D6-19*01, or D1-26, D2-2, D3-10 and D6-19, or
             D2-2, D3-9 and D3-10; and optionally the JH is JH6 (eg, JH6*02);
             Wherein
             (a)            the heavy chain variable domain has been produced in vivo in a non-human
                            vertebrate (eg, a mouse or a rat); and/or
                                                               67
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

             (b)            the heavy chain variable domain comprises non-human vertebrate AID-pattern
                            somatic hypermutations, (eg, mouse or rat AID-pattern mutations) when compared to
                            corresponding human germline V, D and J sequences and/or non-human (eg, mouse
                            or rat) terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT)- pattern junctional mutations when
                            compared to corresponding human germline V, D and J sequences.
             In an example, the heavy chain (or all heavy chains in the repertoire) comprise non-human
             vertebrate constant regions (eg, mouse or rat constant regions). For example, the constant
             regions are gamma-type constant regions (eg, gamma-1, gamma-2 or gamma-4 type).
             In an example, the repertoire is a naive repertoire. This is shown in the examples section
             herein.
             In an example, the repertoire is an immunised repertoire. This is shown in the examples
             section herein.
             In an example, the repertoire is an antigen-specific repertoire (eg, provided by a plurality of
             hybridomas). This is shown in the examples section herein.
             The repertoire can be provided by B cells (eg, immortalised B cells).
             The repertoire can be provided by hybridomas.
             In an example, the vectors are harboured by host cells (eg, CHO or HEK293 cells or yeast
             cells).
             The HCDR3 length can be 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29 or 30 amino acids (according
             to IMGT), eg, from 20 to 23 amino acids (a produced in the examples).
             In an example, in (a) the vertebrate is a vertebrate according to the invention.
46.          A nucleic acid collection encoding the heavy chain repertoire of clause 45.
             In an example, the nucleic acids are provided in respective vectors (eg, expression vectors,
             eg, E coli or CHO or HEK293 vectors).
47.          A method of obtaining an antigen-specific heavy chain (eg, provided by an antibody), the
             method comprising exposing the repertoire of clause 45 to a predetermined antigen and
             selecting one or more heavy chains that specifically bind to the antigen, wherein one or more
             heavy chains is isolated that has a HCDR3 length of at least 20 amino acids.
             Optionally, when the heavy chain has a non-human constant region, this is swapped for a
             human constant region, as is conventional in the art. Thus, the invention provides a human
             antibody heavy chain so produced (eg, provided in combination with a human light chain to
             produce a human antibody which is useful for human therapeutic and/or prophylactic use, eg,
             to treat and/or prevent an infectious disease in a human patient).
                                                               68
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

             In an example of the vertebrate or cell of any aspect of the invention, the genome comprises
             an immunoglobulin light chain locus comprising one or more human V gene segments and
             one or more human J gene segments upstream of a constant region (eg, a human or a
             mouse lambda or kappa constant region).
             For rearrangement and expression of heavy chains, the locus comprises control elements,
             such as an E^ and S^ between the J gene segment(s) and the constant region as is known by
             the skilled person. In one example, a mouse E^ and S^ is included in the heavy chain locus
             between the JH repertoire and the constant region (ie, in 5' to 3' order the locus comprises
             the JH gene segment(s), E^ and S^ and constant region). In an example, the E^ and S^ are
             E^ and S^ of a mouse 129-derived genome (eg, a 129Sv-derived genome, eg, 129Sv/EV
             (such as 129S7Sv/Ev (such as from AB2.1 or AB2.2 cells obtainable from Baylor College of
             Medicine, Texas, USA) or 129S6Sv/Ev))); in another example, the E^ and S^ are E^ and S^
             of a mouse C57BL/6 -derived genome. In this respect, the locus can be constructed in the
             IgH locus of the genome of a cell selected from AB2.1, AB2.2, VGF1, CJ7 and FH14. VGF1
             cells were established and described in Auerbach W, Dunmore JH, Fairchild-Huntress V, et
             al; Establishment and chimera analysis of 129/SvEv- and C57BL/6-derived mouse embryonic
             stem cell lines. Biotechniques 2000; 29:1024-8, 30, 32, incorporated herein by reference.
             Additionally or alternatively, the constant region (or at least a C^; or C^ and gamma constant
             regions thereof) is a constant region (or C^; or C^ and gamma constant regions thereof) is of
             a genome described in the paragraph immediately above.
             A suitable source of human DNA sequences or gene segments will be readily apparent to the
             skilled person. For example, it is possible to collect a DNA sample from a consenting human
             donor (eg, a cheek swab sample as per the Example herein) from which can be obtained
             suitable DNA sequences for use in constructing a locus of the invention. Other sources of
             human DNA are commercially available, as will be known to the skilled person. Alternatively,
             the skilled person is able to construct gene segment sequence by referring to one or more
             databases of human Ig gene segment sequences disclosed herein.
             In an example, the genome comprises all or some of the following human VH gene segments
             IGHV6-1
             IGHV3-7
             IGHV1-8
             IGHV3-9
             IGHV3-11
             IGHV3-13
             IGHV1-18
                                                         69
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

             IGHV3-30
             IGHV4-31
             IGHV4-39
             IGHV4-59
             Optionally also (i) and/or (ii)
             (i)
             IGHV1-2
             IGHV2-5 and
             IGHV3-21
             (ii)
             IGHV1-2
             IGHV2-5
             IGHV3-21
             IGHV1-24
             For example, the genome comprises all or some of the following human VH gene segment
             variants
             IGHV6-1*01
             IGHV3-7*01
             IGHV1-8*01
             IGHV3-9*01
             IGHV3-1 1*01
             IGHV3-13*01
             IGHV1-18*01
             IGHV3-30*18
             IGHV4-31*03
                                                   70
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

             IGHV4-39*01 and
             IGHV4-59*01;
             Optionally also (iii) or (iv)
             (ii)
             IGHV1-2*04
             IGHV2-5*10 and
             IGHV3-21*03
             (iv)
             IGHV1-2*02
              IGHV2-5*01
             IGHV3-21*01 and
             IGHV1-24*01
             For example, the genome comprises all or some of the following human JH gene segment
             variants
             IGHJ2*01
             IGHJ3*02
             IGHJ4*02
             IGHJ5*02 and
             IGHJ6*02
             For example, the genome comprises all or some of the following human D gene segments
             IGHD1-1
             IGHD2-2
             IGHD3-9
             IGHD3-1 0
             IGHD5-12
                                                     71
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

             IGHD6-13
             IGHD1-14
             IGHD2-15
             IGHD3-16
             IGHD4-17
             IGHD6-19
             IGHD2-21
             IGHD5-24
             IGHD1-26 and
             IGHD7-27
             and optionally also (v) or (vi) (v)
             IGHD3-3
             (vi)
             IGHD3-3
             IGHD4-4
             IGHD5-5
             IGHD6-6
             IGHD1-7
             IGHD2-8 and
             IGHD2-8
It will be understood that particular embodiments described herein are shown by way of illustration
and not as limitations of the invention. The principal features of this invention can be employed in
various embodiments without departing from the scope of the invention. Those skilled in the art will
recognize, or be able to ascertain using no more than routine study, numerous equivalents to the
specific procedures described herein. Such equivalents are considered to be within the scope of this
invention and are covered by the claims. All publications and patent applications mentioned in the
specification are indicative of the level of skill of those skilled in the art to which this invention
pertains. All publications and patent applications are herein incorporated by reference to the same
                                                   72
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

extent as if each individual publication or patent application was specifically and individually indicated
to be incorporated by reference. The use of the word "a" or "an" when used in conjunction with the
term "comprising" in the claims and/or the specification may mean "one," but it is also consistent with
the meaning of "one or more," "at least one," and "one or more than one." The use of the term "or" in
the claims is used to mean "and/or" unless explicitly indicated to refer to alternatives only or the
alternatives are mutually exclusive, although the disclosure supports a definition that refers to only
alternatives and "and/or." Throughout this application, the term "about" is used to indicate that a value
includes the inherent variation of error for the device, the method being employed to determine the
value, or the variation that exists among the study subjects.
As used in this specification and claim(s), the words "comprising" (and any form of comprising, such
as "comprise" and "comprises"), "having" (and any form of having, such as "have" and "has"),
"including" (and any form of including, such as "includes" and "include") or "containing" (and any form
of containing, such as "contains" and "contain") are inclusive or open-ended and do not exclude
additional, unrecited elements or method steps.
The term "or combinations thereof" as used herein refers to all permutations and combinations of the
listed items preceding the term. For example, "A, B, C, or combinations thereof is intended to include
at least one of: A, B, C, AB, AC, BC, or ABC, and if order is important in a particular context, also BA,
CA, CB, CBA, BCA, ACB, BAC, or CAB. Continuing with this example, expressly included are
combinations that contain repeats of one or more item or term, such as BB, AAA, MB, BBC,
AAABCCCC, CBBAAA, CABABB, and so forth. The skilled artisan will understand that typically there
is no limit on the number of items or terms in any combination, unless otherwise apparent from the
context.
Any part of this disclosure may be read in combination with any other part of the disclosure, unless
otherwise apparent from the context.
All of the compositions and/or methods disclosed and claimed herein can be made and executed
without undue experimentation in light of the present disclosure. While the compositions and methods
of this invention have been described in terms of preferred embodiments, it will be apparent to those
of skill in the art that variations may be applied to the compositions and/or methods and in the steps
or in the sequence of steps of the method described herein without departing from the concept, spirit
and scope of the invention. All such similar substitutes and modifications apparent to those skilled in
the art are deemed to be within the spirit, scope and concept of the invention as defined by the
appended claims.
The present invention is described in more detail in the following non limiting Examples (Examples
 1,3 being prophetic). Example 4 is a worked example.
                                                     73
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

                                              EXAMPLES
                                              EXAMPLE 1
              "Recombineered BAC Vectors to add Polymorphic V-regions to the Mouse Genome"
Figure 1 through 3 depict recombineering methods (see references above) that can be used to
introduce polymorphic V-gene regions into genomic DNA. In one embodiment, a genomic fragment
from the human heavy chain region is inserted into a bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) vector by
standard techniques. Preferably, such a BAC, which can range in size from 20-kb to 200-kb or more,
can be isolated from libraries of BACs by standard techniques including sequence searches of
commercially available libraries or by hybridization to bacterial colonies containing BACs to identify
those with a BAC of interest.
A BAC is chosen that has several VH gene segments; in Figure 1, these are generically identified as
VH[a] through VH[z] for example. One skilled in the art will readily identify appropriate genomic
fragments, for example, an approximately 120-kb fragment from human VH5-78 through VH1-68
which includes 5 endogenous active VH gene segments and 7 VH psuedogenes. Using
recombineering techniques, the endogenous VH gene segments can be replaced by polymorphic VH
or VL gene segments. In this example, two steps are required. The first step replaces the V-region
coding exon of an endogenous VH gene segment with a positive-negative selection operon, in this
example, an operon encoding an ampicillin resistance gene (Amp) and a streptomycin-sensitizing
ribosomal protein (rpsL). Certain strains of bacteria can be selected for the absence of the rpsL gene
by resistance to streptomycin. Short stretches of DNA homologous to sequences flanking the
endogenous VH gene exon are placed 5' and 3' of the rpsL-Amp operon. In the presence of
appropriate recombination factors per standard recombineering techniques (see references above)
recombination between the operon fragment and the BAC will result in replacement of the
endogenous VH gene exon with the operon (Figure 1a) which are selected by resistance to ampicillin.
The second step uses the same homologous sequences in order to replace the inserted operon with
a desired polymorphic VH gene segment. In this example, a human VH1-69 gene is inserted (Figure
 lb and 1c). In particular the *02 allele of VH1-69 is used [ref IMGT and Figure 5]. Successful
integrations of the polymorphic VH gene segment are selected in bacteria that become resistant to
streptomycin due to the loss of the operon, specifically the rpsL portion.
In this example, the two step process as described can be repeated for each of the endogenous VH
gene segments or for as many endogenous gene segments that one wishes to replace with
polymorphic V gene segments (Figure 1d).
As is apparent, any polymorphic V gene segment can be inserted in this manner and any
endogenous V gene segment can act as a target, including pseudogenes. V gene segments in each
of the heavy chain and two light chain loci can be replaced using this technique with appropriate
genomic fragments available as BAC inserts.
                                                    74
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

Figure 2 depicts another method for creating a genomic fragment encoding polymorphic V gene
segments. In this example, polymorphic V gene segments are inserted into a region of genomic DNA
devoid of other genes, control elements or other functions. Such 'desert' regions can be selected
based on sequence analysis and corresponding DNA fragments cloned into BACs or identified in
existing BAC libraries. Starting with such a genomic fragment, recombineering techniques can be
used to insert polymorphic V gene segments at intervals of, for example, 10-kb. In this example, a
150-kb genomic fragment might accommodate insertion of up to 15 polymorphic V gene segments.
Insertion of the segments is a two-step process. The first recombineering step inserts the rpsL-Amp
operon at a specific site. Sequences homologous to a specific site are used to flank the operon.
These are used by the recombineering system to insert the element specifically into the BAC genomic
fragment and positive events are selected by resistance to ampicillin (Figure 2a). The second step
replaces the operon in the genomic fragment with a polymorphic V gene segment by a similar
recombineering step using the same sequence homology (Figure 2b). In this example, both exons
and promoter element of a polymorphic VH gene segment are inserted, resulting in replacement of
the rpsL-Amp operon and therefore resistance to streptomycin (Figure 2c).
The two step technique for inserting polymorphic V gene segments into a specific site on the genomic
fragment can be repeated multiple times resulting in a BAC genomic fragment with several
polymorphic gene segments, including their promoter elements. It is apparent that the examples
shown in Figures 1 and 2 can be combined wherein the technique for insertion can be used to add
extra polymorphic V gene segments to a BAC genomic fragment as depicted in Figure 1. One might
choose to add these extra segments to an IG genomic fragment since such a fragment would be
more amenable to proper IG gene expression once inserted into a non-human mammal's genome. It
is known that a genomic fragment can have elements such as enhancers or elements that contribute
to certain chromatin conformations, both important in wild-type gene expression.
Figure 3 depicts an additional method to create genomic fragments with polymorphic V gene
segments. This method depends upon the efficiency with which short (around 50 to 150 bases,
preferably 100 bases) single stranded DNA fragments recombine with a homologous sequence using
recombineering (Nat Rev Genet. 2001 Oct;2(10):769-79; Recombineering: a powerful new tool for
mouse functional genomics; Copeland NG, Jenkins NA, Court DL). The recombinases used in
recombineering preferentially bind and use such short single-stranded fragments of DNA as a
substrate for initiating homologous recombination. The efficiency can be as high as 10-2, that is, a
positive event can be found in approximately 100 randomly picked (not selected) clones resulting
from recombineering. A positive event in this example occurring when one or more single nucleotide
changes introduced into the single-stranded fragment get transferred to the BAC insert containing V
gene segments and surrounding genomic DNA, said nucleotide change or changes occurring at a
homologous sequence on the BAC.
Polymorphic V gene segments can differ from endogenous V gene segments by only 1 or 2, or up to
10 or 15 nucleotide changes, for example. An example of such nucleotide polymorphisms are
depicted in Figure 5. Short single stranded regions that encompass the polymorphic nucleotide
changes can be chemically synthesized using standard techniques. The resulting single stranded
DNA fragments are introduced into bacteria and via recombineering techniques approximately 1 in
100 BAC fragments will have incorporated the polymorphic nucleotides via homologous incorporation
                                                  75
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

of the single stranded fragment (Figure 3a). BACs with the desired nucleotide change can be
identified by screening for example several hundred individual clones by polymerase chain reaction
(PCR) amplification and sequencing, both by standard techniques. In the example, two nucleotide
changes will convert a VH1-69*01 gene segment into a VH1-69*02 gene segment (Figure 3b).
It is clear that this process can be repeated for multiple endogenous V gene segments contained on a
single BAC genomic fragment. In addition, the techniques depicted in Figure 2 can be used to add
additional polymorphic V gene segments by insertion into regions between existing V gene segments.
As would be evident to one skilled in the art, a combination of these techniques can be used to create
numerous variations of both polymorphic and endogenous human V gene segments. And it would be
evident that several different genomic fragments with engineered polymorphic V gene segments and
endogenous human V gene segments can be combined to create even more variations.
                                                  EXAMPLE 2
                  "Adding Polymorphic V-regions to the Genome using SRMCE of Modified BACs"
Modified BACs with polymorphic V gene segments created using the methods described in Example
 1 can be used to alter the genome of non-human mammals. These alterations can result in an intact
IG locus in which normal immunoglobin region recombination results in VDJ or VJ combinations
which includes the human V gene segments. An example of how such an animal can be created is by
altering the genome of, for example, mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells using the strategy outlined in
Figure 4.
One technique to integrate modified BACs with polymorphic V gene segments into a genome is
sequential recombinase mediated cassette exchange (SRMCE). The technique is described in
W02011004192 (Genome Research Limited), which is incorporated here in its entirety by reference.
SRMCE provides for a locus modified with a 'landing pad' inserted at a specific location. This insertion
can either be de novo via homologous recombination or as a consequence of a previous BAC
insertion. In this example, the landing pad is inserted in the mouse IGH locus between the most 3' J
gene segment and the C^ gene segment and a previous BAC insertion via SRMCE techniques have
resulted in the addition of 5 human V gene segments and 2 V region pseudogenes. The landing pad
has elements as shown in Figure 4 that will allow the selection of correct insertion of a second
targeting BAC fragment. The specificity of this insertion is provided by cre recombinase-mediated
exchange between permissive lox sites. A lox site is permissive for recombination only with a
compatible lox site. In this example, the loxP site will only recombine with loxP and lox2272 will only
recombine with lox2272. This provides directionality to the insertion of the BAC fragment as depicted
in Figure 4b and 4c.
ES cell clones with correct insertions are selected from a pool of clones without insertions or with non
productive insertions by resistance to puromycin. Resistance to puromycin results from the
juxtaposition of an active promoter element, PGK, with the puroTK coding region. Correct insertions
are verified by standard techniques including PCR of junctions, PCR of internal elements, Southern
blotting, comparative genomic hybridization (CGH), sequencing and etc. In the example, correct
lox2272-lox2272 and loxP-loxP recombination also results in two intact sets of piggyBac elements
                                                        76
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

that did not exist prior to insertion. An intact piggyBac element is comprised of a set of inverted
repeats which are depicted in the figure by "PB5'" and "PB3". An appropriated oriented set of
piggyBac elements are the substrate of piggyBac transposase which can catalyse recombination
between the elements, resulting in deletion of intervening sequences as well as both elements. The
DNA remaining after a piggyBac transposition is left intact and is lacking any remnant of the piggyBac
element. In the example, ES cell clones with successful piggyBac transposition are selected by loss
of the active puroTK element which renders the cells resistant to the drug FIAU (Figure 4c and 4d).
The final product of the SRMCE method in this example is a IGH locus with several polymorphic V
gene segments inserted along with a set of endogenous unmodified VH gene segments between
sequences of the mouse genome on the 5' side and the mouse IGH constant region gene segments
on the 3' side. The polymorphic V gene segments are positioned such that they can participate in the
recombination events associated with B cell maturation yielding VDJ gene segments. These gene
segments can then be transcribed and spliced to the mouse constant region. Translation of these
transcripts will result in the production of an antibody heavy chain encoded by the polymorphic V
gene segment, a human DH gene segment, a human JH gene segment and a mouse constant heavy
chain gene segment.
As is well known to those skilled in the art, an ES cell clone can be used to create a line of genetically
modified mice via injection of said cells into a mouse blastocyst embryo, transferring the injected
embryo to a suitable recipient and breeding the chimeric offspring that result. The modified gene
locus can be propagated through breeding and made either heterozygous or homozygous depending
on the genetic cross.
It is evident from the structure of the IGH locus provided in this example and by knowledge of the
mechanisms involved in B cell receptor (BCR) and antibody gene rearrangements that a large set of
different combinations of polymorphic V gene segments with various DH and JH gene segments will
result and these can contribute to a large repertoire of functional antibody genes in a population of B
cells in genetically modified animals. In this example, several different human VH1-69 polymorphs are
incorporated to provide superhuman VH diversity. This particular VH gene segment is known to be
prevalent in antibodies that bind infectious disease pathogens (such as influenza virus) and therefore
the antibody repertoire of a mouse with the genetic modification of this example would be expected to
produce antibodies with a bias in favour of those that bind infectious disease pathogens. The
repertoire, in other words, would have a larger subset of antibodies with superior affinities for
pathogen antigens. Examples of such pathogens include influenza virus, hepatitis C virus (HCV) and
human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) (see also table above).
                                                EXAMPLE 3
                                    "Alignment of 13 VH1-69 Alleles"
Building a more diverse antibody repertoire by incorporating additional V gene segment polymorphs
requires availability of polymorphic alleles of V gene segments. One source of such alleles include
sequence databases. In this example, 13 distinct alleles of the VH1-69 gene segment are provided.
These allele sequences and comparisons are drawn from the "IMmunoGeneTics" IMGT Information
                                                    77
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

System (www.imgt.com) database. Figure 5 is a diagram of the alignment of alleles *02 through *13
with the *01 allele. The VH1-69*01 nucleotide and amino acid sequence is provided at the top of the
figure. Where the remaining alleles are identical to the *01 allele sequence a dash is inserted below
the sequence. Nucleotide differences are noted alongside the appropriate allele and if the sequence
change results in a protein coding change, the amino acid change is indicated above the triplet.
Figure 5 depicts between 1 and 4 amino acid changes for each allele in comparison to the *01 allele.
All of the amino acid changes occur in the part of the heavy chain protein encoding the
complementarity determining regions (CDRs). These regions are responsible for antigen specificity
and the affinity of the antibody for the antigen. It is evident that providing additional polymorphic
CDRs in a repertoire of antibodies will increase the likelihood of there being an antibody with superior
binding characteristics for various antigens. In several reports, it has been observed that the VH1-69
encoded variable region of the heavy chain is often found in antibodies that bind influenza virus, HCV
and HIV-1 antigens (see table above). Therefore incorporating the polymorphic V gene segments of
this example into a transgenic animal model using the methods of Examples 1 and 2 would likely
result in an antibody repertoire in said transgenic animal with more antibodies that bind to antigens
associated with these and other pathogens. And as is known in the art, a larger repertoire increases
the probability of finding monoclonal antibodies using, for example, hybridoma technology, that bind
with high affinity and specificity to a desired antigen.
This disclosure therefore describes in these examples a transgenic mouse model which can be
immunized with pathogen or other antigens. Plasma B cells from such an immunized mouse can be
used to make a hybridoma library that can be screened for production of antibodies that bind the
pathogen antigens. This library will be superior to libraries from traditional transgenic mice for finding
such antibodies given the addition of polymorphic VH1-69 gene segments to the IGH locus in said
transgenic mouse.
These examples are not limiting to the human polymorphic V gene segments that can be chosen or to
the methods used to introduce them into an animal model. The method can be used to construct a
transgenic locus with immunoglobulin D and/or J segments. The V, D, J segments can be from a
plurality of human sources (optionally more than one human ethnic population).
                                                 EXAMPLE 4
"Transgenic Mice, B-cells, Hybridomas, Antibodies & Heavy Chains Based on Human JH6*02"
A functional human gene segment repertoire (from VH2-26 to JH6, see the IMGT database for the
structure                         of       the              human                 IgH                locus;
http://www.imgt.org/IMGTrepertoire/index.php?section=LocusGenes&repertoire=locus&species=h
uman&group=IGK ) was sectored by the inventors to produce two different transgenic heavy chain
alleles (denoted S2F and S3F) and corresponding mice. The transgenic alleles were expressed in the
mice and the heavy chain repertoires were assessed at the RNA transcript level. Deep sequence
analysis was carried out using Bioinformatics methods to assess V, D and JH gene usage, including
in variable domain sequences having a HCDR3 length of at least 20 amino acids. Endogenous,
                                                      78
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

mouse variable region gene segments were inactivated by inversion (as per the method described in
W02011004192, this disclosure being incorporated herein by reference).
Sequencing of Human Donor DNA Samples: Identification of Conserved JH6*02 Variant
DNA samples from 9 anonymised consenting human donors were obtained by taking cheek swabs.
The samples were processed and the DNA Samples were extracted follow the protocol of QIAamp
DNA Mini Kit (Cat.No.51304, Qiagen).
PCR reactions were set up to amplify the JH6 region and PCR products were sequenced (PCR
Oligos sequence: Fwd. 5'-AGGCCAGCAGAGGGTTCCATG-3' (SEQ ID NO: 444), Rev. 5'
GGCTCCCAGATCCTCAAGGCAC-3' (SEQ ID NO: 445)).
Sequence analysis was carried out by comparing to the JH6 reference sequence from IMGT
annotated database (http://www.imgt.org/), and this identified that all 9 donor genomes contained the
human JH6*02 variant, with this variant being in the homozygous state in 7 out of the 9 donors. The
inventors also consulted the genomic sequences publicly available for Jim Watson and Craig Venter
at Ensembl human genome database [http://www.ensembl.org/]. These too contained the human
JH6*02 variant. This confirmed to the inventors that human JH6*02 is a common, conserved variant
in humans, and thus a good candidate for construction of a transgenic IgH locus as per the invention
Identification of Suitable Human DNA Sequence BACs
A series of human bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clones were identified from Ensemble
(http://www.ensembl.org/index.html) or UCSC (http://genome.ucsc.edu/) human database searches
based on gene name (IGH) or location (chromosome 14: 106026574-107346185). Seven human
RP11 BAC clones were selected, RP11-1065N8 BAC carrying human JH6*02. In total, the following
BACs were identified as sources of human IgH locus DNA: RP11-1065N8, RP11-659B19, RP11
14117, RP-112H5, RP11-101G24, RP11-12F16 and RP11-47P23.
With a similar approach, different BAC clones (eg, different RP1 1 clone IDs or different sources from
RP11) or genetically engineered BACs can be selected for insertion into the mouse IGH locus to
provide different sets of human repertoires in the transgenic mouse.
Construction of Transgenic IgH Loci
Insertion of human heavy gene segments from a 1st IGH BAC (RP1 1-1065N8) into the IGH locus of
mouse AB2.1 ES cells (Baylor College of Medicine) was performed to create a heavy chain allele
denoted the S1 allele. The inserted human sequence corresponds to the sequence of human
chromosome 14 from position 106494908 to position 106328951 and comprises functional heavy
gene segments VH2-5, VH7-4-1, VH4-4, VH1-3, VH1-2, VH6-1, D1-1, D2-2, D3-9, D3-10, D4-11, D5
12, D6-13, D1-14, D2-15, D3-16, D4-17, D5-18, D6-19, D1-20, D2-21, D3-22, D4-23, D5-24, D6-25,
D1-26, D7-27, JH1, JH2, JH3, JH4, JH5 and JH6 (in 5' to 3' order), wherein the JH6 was chosen to be
the human JH6*02 variant. The insertion was made between positions 114666435 and 114666436 on
mouse chromosome 12, which is upstream of the mouse C^ region. The mouse VH, D and JH gene
                                                    79
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

segments were retained in the locus, immediately upstream of (5' of) the inserted human heavy chain
DNA.
A second allele, S2 was constructed in which more human functional VH gene segments were
inserted upstream (5') of the 5'-most VH inserted in the S1 allele by the sequential insertion of human
DNA from a second BAC (BAC2). The inserted human sequence from BAC2 corresponds to the
sequence of human chromosome 14 from position 106601551 to position 106494909 and comprises
functional heavy chain gene segments VH3-13, VH3-11, VH3-9, VH1-8, VH3-7. The mouse VH, D
and JH gene segments were retained in the locus, immediately upstream of (5' of) the inserted human
heavy chain DNA. In a subsequent step, these were inverted to inactivate them, thereby producing
S2F mice in which only the human heavy chain variable region gene segments are active.
A third allele, S3 was constructed in which more human functional VH gene segments were inserted
upstream (5') of the 5'-most VH inserted in the S2 allele by the sequential insertion of human DNA
from a third BAC (BAC3). The inserted sequence corresponds to the sequence of human
chromosome 14 from position 106759988 to position 106609301, and comprises functional heavy
chain gene segments, VH2-26, VH1-24, VH3-23, VH3-21, VH3-20, VH1-18, and VH3-15. The mouse
VH, D and JH gene segments were retained in the locus, immediately upstream of (5' of) the inserted
human heavy chain DNA. In a subsequent step, these were inverted to inactivate them, thereby
producing S3F mice in which only the human heavy chain variable region gene segments are active.
Mice bearing either the S2F or S3F insertion into an endogenous heavy chain locus were generated
from the ES cells using standard procedures. The other endogenous heavy chain locus was
inactivated in the mice by insertion of an inactivating sequence comprising neoR into the mouse JH
C^ intron (to produce the "HA" allele).
Specifically, the following alleles were included:
VH1-2*02, VH1-3*01, VH1-8*01, VH1-18*01, VH2-5*10, VH3-7*01, VH3-9*01, VH3-11*01, VH3
13*01, VH3-21*03, VH3-23*04, VH4-4*02, VH6-1*01 and VH7-4-1*01 D1-26*01, D2-2*02, D3-9*01,
D3-10*01, D3-22*01, D4-17*01, D6-13*01 and D6-19*01
Immunisation procedure
Transgenic mice of the S2F or S3F genotype were primed with 20-40ug recombinant proteins
obtained commercially or produced in house with Antigen 1 (OVA (Sigma A7641); Antigen 2 (a
human infectious disease pathogen antigen) and Antigen 3 (a human antigen) via the ip route in
complete Freunds adjuvant (Sigma F 5881) and 10ug/animal CpG (CpG oligo; Invivogen, San Diego,
California, USA) and then boosted twice in about two weekly intervals with about half the amount of
antigen in incomplete Freunds adjuvant (Sigma F 5506) and 10ug/animal CpG. Final boosts were
administered two weeks later iv without any adjuvant and contained 5-10 ug protein in PBS.
Hybridoma fusion procedure
Spleens were taken 3 days after the final boost and spleenocytes were treated with CpG (25 Am final
concentration) for and left until the following day. Cells were then fused with SPO/2 Ag14 myeloma
                                                    80
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

cells (HPA Cultures Cat No 85072401) using a BTX ECM2001 electrofusion instrument. Fused cells
were left to recover for 20 minutes then seeded in a T75 flask until next morning. Then the cells were
spun down and plated out by dilution series on 96-well culture plates and left for about 10 days before
screening. Media was changed 1-3 times during this period.
Screening
Culture supernatants of the hybridoma wells above were screened using homogenious time resolved
fluorescence assay (htrf) using Europium cryptate labelled anti-mouse IgG (Cisbio anti-mouse Ig
Europium Cryptate) and a biotin tagged target antigen with a commercially available streptavidin
conjucated donor (Cisbio; streptaviding conjugated D2) or by IgG-specific 384 well ELISA. Positive
wells identified by htrf were scaled to 24-well plates or immediately counterscreened using an IgG
specific detection ELISA method. Positives identified by primary ELISA screen were immediately
expanded to 24-well plates. Once cultures were expanded to 24-well stage and reached conflueny,
supernatants were re-tested using htrf or IgG-specific ELISA to confirm binding to target antigen.
Supernatant of such confirmed cultures were then also analysed by surface plasmon resonance using
a BioRad ProteOn XPR36 instrument. For this, antibody expressed in the hybridoma cultures was
captured on a biosensor GLM chip (BioRad 176-512) which had an anti-mouse IgG (GE Healthcare
BR-1008-38) )covalently coupled the biosensor chip surface. The antigen was then used as the
analyte and passed over the captured hybridoma antibody surface. For Antigen 2 and Antigen 3,
concentrations of 256nM, 64nM, 16nM, 4nM and 1nM were typically used, for Antigen 1,
concentrations of 1028nM, 256nM, 64nM, 16nM and 4nM were typically used, binding curves were
double referenced using a OnM injection (i.e. buffer alone). Kinetics and overall affinities were
determined using the 1:1 model inherent to the BioRad ProteOn XPR36 analysis software.
Any clones with confirmed binding activity were used for preparing total RNA and followed by PCR to
recover the heavy chain variable region sequences. Standard 5'-RACE was carried out to analyse
RNA transcripts from the transgenic heavy chain loci in the S2F and S3F mice. Additionally, deep
sequence analysis of almost 2000 sequences produced by the mice was carried out.
Bionformatics Analysis
Sequences for analysis were obtained from two different methods:
*     The first is from RNA extracted from the spleen: first cDNA strand was synthesized using an oligo
      based on the Cmu region of the mouse IGH locus as a PCR template. PCR was performed using
      this oligo with an oligo dT-anchor primer. Then PCR product was cloned into pDrive vector
      (Qiagen) and then sequenced.
*     The second is from hybridomas generated through electro-fusion: total RNA was extracted from
      hybridoma lines of interest using standard Trizol methods and frozen at -80 oC for long term
      storage. cDNA was generated from 100ng total RNA using standard Superscript III reverse
      transcriptase and a gene-specific reverse primer binding to all mouse IgG isotypes for heavy chain
      and a mouse kappa constant region primer for the light chain amplification. 2-3 ul of cDNA were
      then used as template in a PCR reaction using Pfu DNA polymerase and a panel of degenerate
     forward primers annealing to the leader sequence of the human immunoglobulin variable domain
                                                    81
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

      as well as one mouse pan-IgG reverse primer. PCR products were run out of a 1% agarose gel
      and bands of approximately 350-450 basepairs extracted and purified. DNA was then sequenced.
The sequences from the first method can either be from IgM from Naive mice or IgG from immunised
mice. The samples from the second method are all from IgG from immunised mice, and specific to the
immunising antigen. Almost 2000 sequences were analysed.
The sequences were obtained as a pair of forward and reverse reads. These were first trimmed to
remove low-quality base calls from the ends of the reads (trimmed from both ends until a 19
nucleotide window had an average quality score of 25 or more). The reads were combined together
by taking the reverse complement of the reverse read, and aligning it against the forward read. The
alignment scoring was 5 for a match, -4 for a mismatch, a gap open penalty of 10 and a gap
extension penalty of 1. A consensus sequence was then produced by stepping through the alignment
and comparing bases. When there was a disagreement the base with the highest quality value from
sequencing was used.
The BLAST+ (Basic Local Alignment Search Tool) (Camacho C., Coulouris G., Avagyan V., Ma N.,
Papadopoulos J., Bealer K., & Madden T.L. (2008) "BLAST+: architecture and applications." BMC
Bioinformatics 10:421 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20003500) program 'blastn' was then
used to find the germline J and V segments used in each sequence. A wordsize of 30 was used for V
matching, and 15 for J matching. The database searched against was constructed from the NGS
sequencing of the BACs which were used to generate the Kymouse.
If a sequence matched both a V and a J segment, the sequence between the two was then compared
to a database of germline D segments in the mouse using 'blastn' with a wordsize of 4 and the
options 'blastn-short' and 'ungapped'. This was used to assign a D segment, if possible. The CDR3
was identified by searching for the conserved "TATTACTGT" sequence in the V segment, and the
"CTGGGG" in the J segment. If these motifs were not found, then up to 4 mismatches were allowed.
The IMGT definition of CDR3 was used, so the CDR3 length is calculated from after the "TGT" in the
V to before the "TGG" in the J. Sequences with an out of frame junction (those which do not have a
CDR3 nucleotide length divisible by 3) or which contained a stop codon ("TAA", "TAG" or "TGA")
were excluded.
The identity of the matching V, J and D segments as well as the CDR3 length from this assignment
were then saved as a table for downstream analysis. The ratio of IGHJ6*02 used increased from the
naive to immunised mice, as well as being enriched in the sub-population of sequences with a long
HCDR3 (defined as consisting of 20 or more amino acids):
                                                  82
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

                               ALL                           HCDR3>20
                                              Total Count    JH6*02%    Total         %HCDR3>20
                               JH6*02%                                  Count
  Naive                        22.31%         1340           91.11%     45            3.36%
   Immunised                   37.50%         256            66.67%     9             3.52%
  Hybridoma                    36.13%         119            63.64%     11            9.24%
This shows that the JH6*02 gene segment is selected for by immunisation, as the proportion of
JH6*02 usage increases after immunisation. JH6*02 is also used in the majority of antibodies with a
long HCDR3 length, which is desirable for targets which are specifically bound by long HCDR3 length
antibodies.
Additionally, the analysis revealed that certain VH and D gene segments frequently yielded HCDR3s
of long length (in all of naive, immunised and antigen-specific repertoires of heavy chains). See Table
2.
Table 2A: Long HCDR3s from Naive Repertoires
  V                               Average         Count
                                  CDR3 Length
   IGHV1-2*02                     21              3
   IGHV1-18*01                    21              5
   IGHV3-7*01                     22              3
   IGHV6-1*01                     21              5
   IGHV3-9*01                     20              2
   IGHV2-5*10                     20              1
   IGHV7-4-1*01                   21              3
   IGHV1-3*01                     21              5
                                                          83
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

   IGHV4-4*02                     20          3
   IGHV3-13*01                    22          1
   IGHV3-23*04                    0           1
   IGHV1-8*01                     21          10
   IGHV3-21*03                    23          3
  V                               Average     Count
                                  CDR3 Length
   IGHD2-2*02                     20          1
   IGHD3-9*01                     21          13
   IGHD3-10*01                    21          26
   IGHD6-13*01                    20          1
   IGHD4-17*01                    22          2
   IGHD6-19*01                    23          1
   IGHD3-22*01                    20          1
  CDR3Length (All Naive)                      Count
  20                                          23
  21                                          10
  22                                          7
  23                                          3
  24                                          1
  26                                          1
                                                    84
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

Table 2B: Long HCDR3s from Immunised Repertoires
  V                               Average     Count
                                  CDR3 Length
   IGHV4-4*02 20                  20          1
   IGHV3-11*01                    23          2
   IGHV3-7*01                     21          6
  V                               Average     Count
                                  CDR3 Length
   IGHD2-2*02                     22          2
   IGHD3-10*01                    22          5
   IGHD6-19*01                    20          1
   IGHD1-26*01                    20          1
  CDR3Length (All Immunised)                  Count
  20                                          4
  21                                          1
  22                                          2
  24                                          1
  25                                          1
Table 2C: Long HCDR3s from Antigen-Specific Repertoires
  V                               Average     Count
                                  CDR3 Length
   IGHV4-4*02                     20          2
                                                    85
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

   IGHV1-3*01                     21          3
   IGHV3-11*01                    21          1
   IGHV3-7*01                     22          1
   IGHV1-8*01                     22          2
   IGHV3-20*d01                   22          1
   IGHV3-9*01                     20          1
  D                               Average     Count
                                  CDR3 Length
   IGHD2-2*02                     22          1
   IGHD3-9*01                     21          1
   IGHD3-10*01                    21          9
  CDR3Length                                  Count
  (All Antigen-Specific)
  20                                          4
  22                                          2
  21                                          4
  24                                          1
                                                    86
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

CLAIMS:
1.           A non-human vertebrate (eg, a mouse or a rat) or a non-human vertebrate cell (eg, a mouse
             cell or a rat cell) whose genome comprises a human immunoglobulin D gene segment
             repertoire that is biased to the human D2 and/or D3 family or biased to one, more or all
             human D gene segments selected from the group D1-26, D2-2, D3-9, D3-10, D3-22, D4-17,
             D6-13 and D6-19.
2.           The vertebrate or cell of claim 1, wherein the D gene segment repertoire consists of or
             substantially consists of one, two or three human gene segments selected from the group D1
             26, D2-2, D3-9, D3-10, D3-22, D4-17, D6-13 and D6-19.
3.           The vertebrate or cell of claim 1 or 2, wherein the genome comprises an unrearranged
             immunoglobulin heavy chain locus comprising (in 5' to 3' order) human VH, D and JH gene
             segments and said human D gene segments recited in claim 1 are spaced from the VH gene
             segment(s) by no more than four other D gene segments (eg, by no D gene segments).
4.           The vertebrate or cell of any preceding claim, wherein the genome comprises an
             unrearranged immunoglobulin heavy chain locus comprising said human D gene segments
             and there are no other D gene segments in the locus between said human D gene segments.
5.           The vertebrate or cell of any preceding claim, wherein the genome comprises three or more
             copies of a human D gene segment selected from D1-26, D2-2, D2-15, D3-3, D3-9, D3-10,
             D3-22, D4-17, D6-13 and D6-19.
6.           The vertebrate or cell of claim 5, wherein the genome comprises first and second human D
             gene segments selected from D1-26, D2-2, D2-15, D3-3, D3-9, D3-10, D3-22, D4-17, D6-13
             and D6-19 when the first D gene segment is present as three or more copies and wherein the
             second D gene segment is present as three or more copies.
7.           The vertebrate or cell of any preceding claim, wherein the D gene segments are selected
             from D2-2*02, D3-9*01, D3-10*01 and D3-22*01, or selected from D1-26*01, D2-2*02, D3
             9*01, D3- 10*01, D3-22*01, D4-17*01, D6-13*01 and D6-19*01.
8.           A non-human vertebrate (eg, a mouse or a rat) or a non-human vertebrate cell (eg, a mouse
             cell or a rat cell), optionally according to any preceding claim, whose genome comprises a
             human immunoglobulin VH gene segment repertoire that is biased to one, more or all of gene
             segments selected from the group VH1-2, VH1-3, VH1-8, VH1-18, VH5-51, VH1-69, VH2-5,
             VH3-7, VH3-9, VH3-11, VH3-13, VH3-20, VH3-21, VH3-23, VH4-4, VH6-1 and VH7-4-1.
9.           The vertebrate or cell of claim 8, wherein the VH gene segment repertoire substantially
             consists of or substantially consists of one, two or three human gene segments selected from
             VH1-2, VH1-3, VH1-8, VH1-18, VH5-51, VH1-69, VH2-5, VH3-7, VH3-9, VH3-11, VH3-13,
             VH3-20, VH3-21, VH3-23, VH4-4, VH6-1 and VH7-4-1.
                                                         87
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

10.          The vertebrate or cell of claim 8 or 9, wherein the genome comprises an unrearranged
             immunoglobulin heavy chain locus comprising (in 5' to 3' order) human VH, D and JH gene
             segments and said human VH gene segments are spaced from the D gene segment(s) by no
             more than four other VH gene segments (eg, by no VH gene segments).
11.          The vertebrate or cell of any one of claims 8 to 10, wherein the genome comprises an
             unrearranged immunoglobulin heavy chain locus comprising said human VH gene segments
             and there are no other VH gene segments in the locus between said human VH gene
             segments.
12.          The vertebrate or cell of any one of claims 8 to 11, wherein the genome comprises three or
             more copies of a human VH gene segment selected from the group consisting of VH1-2,
             VH1-3, VH1-8, VH1-18, VH5-51, VH1-69, VH2-5, VH3-7, VH3-9, VH3-11, VH3-13, VH3-20,
             VH3-21, VH3- 23, VH4-4, VH6-1 and VH7-4-1.
13.          The vertebrate or cell of claim 12, wherein the genome comprises first and second human VH
             gene segments selected from the group consisting of VH1-2, VH1-3, VH1-8, VH1-18, VH5
             51, VH1-69, VH2-5, VH3-7, VH3-9, VH3-11, VH3-13, VH3-20, VH3-21, VH3-23, VH4-4, VH6
             1 and VH7-4-1 when the first VH gene segment is present as three or more copies and
             wherein the second VH gene segment is present as three or more copies.
14.          The vertebrate or cell of any one of claims 8 to 13, wherein the VH gene segments are
             selected from the group consisting of VH1-2*02, VH1-3*01, VH1-8*01, VH1-18*01, VH2-5*10,
             VH3-7*01, VH3-9*01, VH3-11*01, VH3-13*01, VH3-21*03, VH3-23*04, VH4-4*02, VH6-1*01
             and VH7-4- 1*01.
15.          The vertebrate or cell of any one of claims 8 to 16, comprising an immunoglobulin heavy
             chain locus comprising two or more copies of a VH gene segment selected from said group.
16.          The vertebrate or cell of any claim, wherein the genome comprises a human JH gene
             segment repertoire consisting of one or more human JH6 gene segments.
17.          The vertebrate or cell of any preceding claim, wherein the genome comprises a human
             immunoglobulin JH gene segment repertoire that is biased to JH6, optionally JH6*02.
18.          The vertebrate or cell of claim 17, wherein the JH gene segment repertoire consists or
             substantially consists of three or more human JH6 gene segments.
19.          The vertebrate or cell of any preceding claim, wherein the sequence of each of said human
             gene segments is a human germline gene segment sequence.
20.          The vertebrate or cell of any preceding claim, wherein one, more or all of the selected gene
             segments are present in the genome as two or more copies, the copies being variants of
             each other.
                                                        88
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

21.          The vertebrate or cell of any preceding claim, wherein said human gene segments are
             provided by homozygous immunoglobulin heavy chain loci.
22.          A non-human vertebrate (eg, a mouse or a rat) or a non-human vertebrate cell (eg, a mouse
             cell or a rat cell) whose genome comprises a human immunoglobulin VH gene segment
             repertoire, one or more human D gene segments and one or more human JH gene
             segments, wherein the VH repertoire does not comprise one, more or all VH gene segments
             selected from the group VH1-2, VH1-3, VH1-8, VH1-18, VH5-51, VH1-69, VH2-5, VH3-7,
             VH3-9, VH3-1 1, VH3-13, VH3-20, VH3-21, VH3-23, VH4-4, VH6-1 and VH7-4-1.
23.          A non-human vertebrate (eg, a mouse or a rat) or a non-human vertebrate cell (eg, a mouse
             cell or a rat cell) whose genome comprises a human immunoglobulin D gene segment
             repertoire, one or more human VH gene segments and one or more human JH gene
             segments, wherein the D repertoire does not comprise one, more or all D gene segments
             selected from the group D1- 26, D2-2, D3-9, D3-10, D3-22, D4-17, D6-13 and D6-19.
24.          The vertebrate or cell of claim 22 or 23, wherein the genome comprises a human JH gene
             segment repertoire that does not comprise JH6.
25.          A non-human vertebrate (eg, a mouse or a rat) or a non-human vertebrate cell (eg, a mouse
             cell or a rat cell) whose genome comprises a human immunoglobulin JH gene segment
             repertoire that is biased to human JH6.
26.          The vertebrate or cell of claim 25, wherein the genome comprises an unrearranged
             immunoglobulin heavy chain locus comprising a plurality of human JH6 gene segments;
             optionally wherein the genome is homozygous for said locus.
27.          The vertebrate or cell of claim 26, wherein the heavy chain locus comprises (in 5' to 3' order)
             human VH, D and JH gene segments and said JH6 gene segments are spaced from the D
             gene segment(s) by no more than two other JH gene segments.
28.          The vertebrate or cell of claim 25, 26 or 27, wherein are no other JH gene segments in the
             locus between said human JH6 gene segments.
29.          A non-human vertebrate (eg, a mouse or a rat) or a non-human vertebrate cell (eg, a mouse
             cell or a rat cell) whose genome comprises a human immunoglobulin JH gene segment
             repertoire that consists of one or more human JH6 gene segments.
30.          The vertebrate or cell of any one of claims 25 to 29, wherein all of said gene segments are
             human germline gene segments.
31.          The vertebrate or cell of any one of claims 25 to 30, comprising different variant JH6 gene
             segments.
32.          The vertebrate or cell of any one of claims 25 to 31, wherein said gene segments are
             provided by homozygous immunoglobulin heavy chain loci.
                                                        89
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

33.          A monoclonal or polyclonal antibody composition or a population of antibody-producing cells
             for producing such composition, wherein the composition or population is prepared by
             immunising at least one vertebrate according to any preceding claim with an antigen, wherein
             the antibody or antibodies have human heavy chain variable regions comprising non-human
             vertebrate AID- pattern somatic hypermutations, (eg, mouse or rat AID-pattern mutations)
             when compared to corresponding human germline V, D and J sequences and/or non-human
             (eg, mouse or rat) terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT)- pattern junctional mutations
             when compared to corresponding human germline V, D and J sequences; wherein the
             composition comprises at least one antigen-specific antibody having a HCDR3 length of at
             least 20 amino acids (according to IMGT).
34.          An isolated antibody that specifically binds an antigen, the antibody comprising human heavy
             chain variable regions and non-human constant regions, wherein the variable regions are
             derived from the recombination in a non-human vertebrate of (i) a human VH gene segment
             selected from the group recited in claim 8 with (ii) a human D gene segment selected from the
             group recited in claim 1 and with a human JH gene segment (optionally JH6); wherein the
             antibody has a HCDR3 length of at least 20 amino acids (according to IMGT); and non
             human vertebrate AID-pattern somatic hypermutations, (eg, mouse or rat AID-pattern
             mutations) when compared to corresponding human germline V, D and J sequences and/or
             non-human (eg, mouse or rat) terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT)- pattern junctional
             mutations when compared to corresponding human germline V, D and J sequences.
35.          The antibody of claim 34, wherein the antibody is obtained or obtainable from a vertebrate
             according to any one of claims 1 to 32.
36.          A method of isolating an antibody that binds a predetermined antigen, the method comprising
             (a)            providing a vertebrate (optionally a mouse or rat) according to any one of claims 1 to
                            32;
             (b)            immunising said vertebrate with said antigen;
             (c)            removing B lymphocytes from the vertebrate and selecting one or more B
                            lymphocytes expressing antibodies that bind to the antigen;
             (d)            optionally immortalising said selected B lymphocytes or progeny thereof, optionally by
                            producing hybridomas therefrom; and
             (e)            isolating an antibody (eg, and IgG-type antibody) expressed by the B lymphocytes.
37.          The method of claim 36, wherein in step (e) wherein the antibody has a HCDR3 length of at
             least 20 amino acids (according to IMGT).
38.          The method of claim 36 or 37, comprising the step of isolating from said B lymphocytes
             nucleic acid encoding said antibody that binds said antigen; optionally exchanging the heavy
             chain constant region nucleotide sequence of the antibody with a nucleotide sequence
                                                               90
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

             encoding a human or humanised heavy chain constant region and optionally affinity maturing
             the variable region of said antibody; and optionally inserting said nucleic acid into an
             expression vector and optionally a host.
39.          The method of claim 36, 37 or 38, further comprising making a copy, mutant or derivative (eg,
             humanised version) of the antibody produced by the method.
40.          The antibody composition, cell population, antibody or method of any one of claims 33 to 39,
             wherein the antigen is an antigen of an infectious disease pathogen; optionally wherein the
             pathogen is a virus or bacterium.
41.          The antibody composition, cell population, antibody or method of claim 40, wherein pathogen
             is selected from the group consisting of Haemophilus influenza, E coli, Neisseria meningitidis,
             a herpes family virus, cytomegalovirus (CMV), HIV and influenza virus.
42.          The antibody composition, cell population, antibody or method of any one of claims 33 to 41,
             wherein the antigen is a HIV gp120 antigen or a HIV gp41 antigen.
43.          The antibody composition, cell population, antibody or method of any one of claims 33 to 40,
             wherein the antigen comprises an active site or cleft, wherein the antibody having a HCDR3
             length of at least 20 amino acids specifically binds to the active site or cleft of the antigen.
44.          A pharmaceutical composition comprising an antibody or antibody composition according to
             any one of claims 33 to 35 and 40 to 43, or an antibody produced by the method of any one
             of claims 36 to 38, for treating and/or preventing an infectious disease in a human (eg,
             wherein the infectious disease is caused by a pathogen selected from the group consisting of
             Haemophilus influenza, E coli, Neisseria meningitidis, a herpes family virus, cytomegalovirus
             (CMV), HIV and influenza virus).
45.          A repertoire of antibody heavy chains (eg, provided by antibodies) comprising one or more
             heavy chains whose variable domain HCDR3 has a length of at least 20 amino acids
             (according to IMGT) and derived from the recombination of a human VH, D and JH, wherein
             the VH is selected from the group VH1-2*02, VH1-3*01, VH1-8*01, VH1-18*01, VH2-5*10,
             VH3-7*01, VH3-9*01, VH3-11*01, VH3- 13*01, VH3-21*03, VH3-23*04, VH4-4*02, VH6-1*01
             and VH7-4-1*01 and the D is selected from the group D2-2*02, D3-9*01, D3-10*01 and D3
             22*01, or D2-2*02, D3-9*01 and D3-10*01, or D3-9*01 and D3-10*01, or D1-26, D2-2, D3-9,
             D3-10, D3-22, D4-17, D6-13 and D6-19, or D1-26*01, D2-2*02, D3-9*01, D3-10*01, D3
             22*01, D4-17*01, D6-13*01 and D6-19*01, or D2-2, D3-9, D3-10, D3-22, D4-17, D6-13 and
             D6-19, or D2-2*02, D3-9*01, D3-10*01, D3-22*01, D4-17*01, D6-13*01 and D6-19*01, or D1
             26, D2-2, D3-10 and D6-19, or D2-2, D3-9 and D3-10; and optionally the JH is JH6 (eg,
             JH6*02);
             Wherein
             (a)            the heavy chain variable domain has been produced in vivo in a non-human
                            vertebrate (eg, a mouse or a rat); and/or
                                                               91
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

             (b)            the heavy chain variable domain comprises non-human vertebrate AID-pattern
                            somatic hypermutations, (eg, mouse or rat AID-pattern mutations) when compared to
                            corresponding human germline V, D and J sequences and/or non-human (eg, mouse
                            or rat) terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT)- pattern junctional mutations when
                            compared to corresponding human germline V, D and J sequences.
46.          A nucleic acid collection encoding the heavy chain repertoire of claim 45.
47.          A method of obtaining an antigen-specific heavy chain (eg, provided by an antibody), the
             method comprising exposing the repertoire of claim 45 to a predetermined antigen and
             selecting one or more heavy chains that specifically bind to the antigen, wherein one or more
             heavy chains is isolated that has a HCDR3 length of at least 20 amino acids.
48.          A non-human vertebrate (optionally a mouse or a rat) or vertebrate cell whose genome
             comprises:
             (c)            An immunoglobulin heavy chain locus comprising one or more human V gene
                            segments, one or more human D gene segments and one or more human J gene
                            segments upstream of a constant region; optionally wherein the heavy chain locus is
                            according to (a) of claim 81; and
             (d)            An immunoglobulin light chain locus comprising either
                            (i)       one or more human VH gene segments and one or more human J gene
                                      segments upstream of a constant region (optionally a rearranged VHJLCL or
                                      VHJxCL, wherein the CL is Cx or CK); or
                            (ii)      one or more human VL gene segments, one or more human D gene
                                      segments and one or more human JH gene segments upstream of a
                                      constant region (optionally a rearranged VLDJHCL or VxDJHCL, wherein the
                                      CL is Cx or CK); or
                            (iii)     one or more human VL gene segments selected from the group consisting of:
                                      a VxII gene family member, VxVII 4A, VxII 2.1, VxVII 4A, a Vx1 gene family
                                      member, a Vx3gene family member, IGLV1S2, Vx3-cML70, lalh2, lalvl,
                                      la3h3, Kv325, a VKI gene family member, KI-15A (KL012), VKII family
                                      member, a VKIII family member, a VKI gene family member, KI-15A (KL012),
                                      VKII A2 (optionally the A2a allele), VK A27 (Humkv325) and a gene segment
                                      at least 80% identical thereto, and one or more human JL gene segments
                                      upstream of a constant region;
                            Wherein the gene segments in the heavy chain locus are operably linked to the
                            constant region thereof, and the gene segments in the light chain locus are operably
                            linked to the constant region thereof, so that upon immunisation the mouse is capable
                            of producing an antibody comprising heavy chains produced by recombination of the
                                                                92
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

                            heavy chain locus and light chains produced by recombination of the light chain
                            locus.
49.          The vertebrate or cell of claim 48, wherein in (b)(i) the J gene segments of the light chain
             locus are JA gene segments and optionally the constant region of the light chain locus is a
             lambda constant region; or in (b)(ii) the VL is a V and optionally the constant region of the
             light chain locus is a lambda constant region.
50.          The vertebrate or cell of claim 48 or 49, wherein in (b)(i) the V gene segment repertoire of the
light chain locus comprises or consists of one or more VH gene segments selected from the group
consisting of: a VHIII gene family member (optionally, a VHIlla or VHIllb family member), a VHIV
gene family member, VHIII 9.1 (VH3-15), VHIII VH26 (VH3-23), VH3-21, LSG6.1, LSG12.1, DP77
(V3-21), VH H11, VH1GRR, ha3h2, VHI-halcl, VHIII-VH2-1, VH4.18, ha4h3, Hv1051, 71-2, Hv1f10,
VH4.11, 71-4, VH251, VH1-69 and a gene segment at least 80% identical thereto; or in (b)(iii) the
light chain locus V gene segment repertoire consists of one VL gene segment type (optionally and
one or mutants thereof), wherein the VL gene segment is selected from said group of VL gene
segments.
51.          The vertebrate or cell of any one of claims 48 to 50, wherein in (a) said constant region is a
             heavy chain endogenous non-human vertebrate (optionally host mouse or rat) constant
             region and/or in (b) said constant region is a light chain endogenous non-human vertebrate
             (optionally host mouse or rat) constant region.
52.          The vertebrate or cell of any one of claims 48 to 51, wherein endogenous heavy and light
             chain expression has been inactivated.
53.          A non-human vertebrate (optionally a mouse or a rat) or vertebrate cell whose genome
             comprises:
             (f)            An immunoglobulin heavy chain locus comprising one or more human V gene
                            segments, one or more human D gene segments and one or more human J gene
                            segments upstream of a constant region; and
             (g)
                            (i)    An unrearranged immunoglobulin light chain locus comprising one or more
                                   human VH gene segments and one or more human J gene segments
                                   upstream of a constant region, wherein each human VH gene segment is a
                                   human gene segment identical to (or mutant of) a human VH gene segment
                                   used to produce a rearranged VDJ encoding a heavy chain variable region of
                                   a human antibody from an antibody- expressing cell wherein said antibody
                                   binds to an antigen of an infectious disease pathogen (optionally the variable
                                   regions of said antibody being identical to an antibody from a human
                                   individual suffering, susceptible to, or recovered from, a disease or condition
                                   caused or mediated by an organism harbouring or secreting said antigen; or
                                   from a human individual harbouring said organism); or
                                                             93
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

                            (ii)     An immunoglobulin light chain locus comprising a rearranged VJ region or
                                     VDJ region upstream of a constant region, wherein the nucleotide sequence
                                     of the recombined region is identical to a nucleotide sequence produced by
                                     the recombination of a human J gene segment and optionally a human D
                                     gene segment with a human VH gene segment that is identical to (or mutant
                                     of) the human VH gene segment used to produce a rearranged VDJ
                                     encoding a heavy chain variable region of a human antibody from an
                                     antibody-expressing cell wherein said antibody binds to an antigen of an
                                     infectious disease pathogen (optionally the variable regions of said antibody
                                     being identical to an antibody from a human individual suffering, susceptible
                                     to, or recovered from, a disease or condition caused or mediated by an
                                     organism harbouring or secreting said antigen; or from a human individual
                                     harbouring said organism);
             (h)            Wherein the gene segments in the heavy chain locus are operably linked to the
                            constant region thereof, and the gene segments or VJ or VDJ in the light chain locus
                            are operably linked to the constant region thereof, so that upon immunisation the
                            mouse is capable of producing an antibody comprising heavy chains produced by
                            recombination of the heavy chain locus and light chains derived from the light chain
                            locus;
             (i)            Optionally when (b)(i) applies, each said VH gene segment in the light chain locus is
                            selected from the group consisting of: a VHIII gene family member (optionally, a
                            VHIlla or VHIllb family member), a VHIV gene family member, VHIII 9.1 (VH3-15),
                            VHIII VH26 (VH3-23), VH3-21, LSG6.1, LSG12.1, DP77 (V3-21), VH H11, VH1GRR,
                            ha3h2, VHI-halcl, VHIII-VH2-1, VH4.18, ha4h3, Hv1051, 71-2, Hv1f10, VH4.11, 71
                            4, VH251, VH1-69 and a gene segment at least 80% identical thereto;
             (j)            Optionally when (b)(ii) applies, the nucleotide sequence of the recombined region is
                            identical to a nucleotide sequence produced by the recombination of a human J gene
                            segment and optionally a human D gene segment with a human VH gene segment
                            selected from the group consisting of: a VHIII gene family member (optionally, a
                            VHIlla or VHIllb family member), a VHIV gene family member, VHIII 9.1 (VH3-15),
                            VHIII VH26 (VH3-23), VH3-21, LSG6.1, LSG12.1, DP77 (V3-21), VH H11, VH1GRR,
                            ha3h2, VHI-halcl, VHIII-VH2-1, VH4.18, ha4h3, Hv1051, 71-2, Hv1f10, VH4.11, 71
                            4, VH251, VH1-69 and a gene segment at least 80% identical thereto.
54.          The vertebrate or cell of claim 53, wherein the J gene segments of the light chain locus are
             JA gene segments and optionally the constant region of the light chain locus is a lambda
             constant region.
55.          The vertebrate or cell of claim 53 or 54, wherein the V gene segment repertoire of the light
             chain locus comprises or consists of human VH1-69 gene segment.
                                                               94
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

56.          The vertebrate or cell of claim 53, 54 or 55, wherein in (a) said constant region is a heavy
             chain endogenous non-human vertebrate (optionally host mouse or rat) constant region.
57.          The vertebrate or cell of claim 53, 54, 55, or 56, wherein in (b) said constant region is a light
             chain endogenous non-human vertebrate (optionally host mouse or rat) constant region.
58.          The vertebrate or cell of any one of claims 53 to 57, wherein the genome of said vertebrate or
             cell is homozygous for light chain locus (b)(i) or (ii); optionally wherein:
             -              the V gene segment repertoire of the light chain loci consists of one or more human
                            VH gene segments selected from the group consisting of: a VHIII gene family
                            member (optionally, a VHIlla or VHIllb family member), a VHIV gene family member,
                            VHIII 9.1 (VH3-15), VHIII VH26 (VH3-23), VH3-21, LSG6.1, LSG12.1, DP77 (V3-21),
                            VH H11, VH1GRR, ha3h2, VHI-halcl, VHIII-VH2-1, VH4.18, ha4h3, Hv1051, 71-2,
                            Hv1f10, VH4.11, 71-4, VH251, VH1-69 and a gene segment at least 80% identical
                            thereto; or
             -              the recombined VJ or VDJ repertoire of the light chain loci consists of sequences
                            identical to one or more nucleotide sequences produced by the recombination of a
                            human VH gene segment selected from the group consisting of: a VHIII gene family
                            member (optionally, a VHIlla or VHIllb family member), a VHIV gene family member,
                            VHIII 9.1 (VH3-15), VHIII VH26 (VH3-23), VH3-21, LSG6.1, LSG12.1, DP77 (V3-21),
                            VH H11, VH1GRR, ha3h2, VHI-halcl, VHIII-VH2-1, VH4.18, ha4h3, Hv1051, 71-2,
                            Hv1f1O, VH4.11, 71-4, VH251, VH1-69 and a gene segment at least 80% identical
                            thereto, with a human J gene segment and optionally a human D gene segment.
59.          The vertebrate or cell of any one of claims 53 to 58, wherein endogenous heavy and light
             chain expression has been inactivated, and wherein light chain loci according to any one of
             claims 53 to 58 are the only functional light chain loci in the genome of the vertebrate or cell.
60.          The vertebrate or cell of any one of claims 53 to 59, wherein each immunoglobulin light chain
             locus of said vertebrate or cell is according to (b)(i) recited in claim 53 and comprises only a
             single human VH gene segment selected from the group consisting of: a VHIII gene family
             member (optionally, a VHIlla or VHIllb family member), a VHIV gene family member, VHIII
             9.1 (VH3-15), VHIII VH26 (VH3-23), VH3-21, LSG6.1, LSG12.1, DP77 (V3-21), VH H11,
             VH1GRR, ha3h2, VHI-halcl, VHIII-VH2-1, VH4.18, ha4h3, Hv1051, 71-2, Hvlfl0, VH4.11,
             71-4, VH251, VH1-69 and a gene segment at least 80% identical thereto, optionally wherein
             the genome of the vertebrate or cell is homozygous for said light chain so that all light chain
             loci comprise the same, single human VH gene segment.
61.          The vertebrate or cell of any one of claims 53 to 59, wherein each immunoglobulin light chain
             locus of said vertebrate or cell is according to (b)(ii) recited in claim 53 and comprises only a
             single rearranged VJ or VDJ region, optionally wherein the genome of the vertebrate or cell is
             homozygous for said light chain so that all light chain loci comprise the same, single
             rearranged VJ or VDJ region.
                                                             95
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

62.          The vertebrate or cell according to claim 60 or 61, wherein each immunoglobulin light chain
             locus further comprises a VH gene segment or rearranged region that is a mutant
             respectively of said selected human VH gene segment or rearranged region, optionally
             wherein the genome of the vertebrate or cell is homozygous for said light chain mutant VH
             gene segment or rearranged region.
63.          The vertebrate or cell according to claim 60, wherein each immunoglobulin light chain locus
             comprises only two human VH gene segments selected from said group, optionally wherein
             the genome of the vertebrate or cell is homozygous for said two light chain human VH gene
             segments.
64.          The vertebrate or cell according to claim 61, wherein each immunoglobulin light chain locus
             comprises only two of said rearranged VJ or VDJ regions, optionally wherein the genome of
             the vertebrate or cell is homozygous for said two light chain rearranged VJ or VDJ regions.
65.          A monoclonal or polyclonal antibody composition prepared by immunisation of at least one
             vertebrate (eg, mouse or rat) according to any one of claims 48 to 64 with an antigen,
             optionally wherein the antigen is an antigen of an infectious disease pathogen, optionally
             wherein the same antigen is used to immunise all the vertebrates; optionally wherein the
             antibody or antibodies are IgG-type.
66.          A method of isolating an antibody that binds a predetermined antigen, the method comprising
             (a)            providing a vertebrate (optionally a mouse or rat) according to any one of claims 48 to
                            64;
             (b)            immunising said vertebrate with said antigen (optionally wherein the antigen is an
                            antigen of an infectious disease pathogen);
             (c)            removing B lymphocytes from the vertebrate and selecting one or more B
                            lymphocytes expressing antibodies that bind to the antigen;
             (d)            optionally immortalising said selected B lymphocytes or progeny thereof, optionally by
                            producing hybridomas therefrom; and
             (e)            isolating an antibody (eg, and IgG-type antibody) expressed by the B lymphocytes.
67.          The method of claim 66, comprising the step of isolating from said B lymphocytes nucleic acid
             encoding said antibody that binds said antigen; optionally exchanging the heavy chain
             constant region nucleotide sequence of the antibody with a nucleotide sequence encoding a
             human or humanised heavy chain constant region and optionally affinity maturing the variable
             region of said antibody; and optionally inserting said nucleic acid into an expression vector
             and optionally a host.
68.          The method of claim 66 or 67, further comprising making a mutant or derivative of the
             antibody produced by the method of claim 66 or 67.
                                                               96
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

69.          A method of producing a polyclonal antibody mixture, the method comprising carrying out the
             method of any one of claims 66 to 68 by separately immunising first and second vertebrates
             (optionally first and second mice or first and second rats) with antigen and combining the anti
             antigen antibodies isolated from each vertebrate (or mutants or derivatives of said antibodies)
             to produce a polyclonal antibody mixture; optionally wherein the following apply separately or
             in combination ((i) and (ii); or (i) and (iii)):
             (i)            the vertebrates are immunised with the same antigen or different antigens (optionally
                            wherein the different antigens are expressed by the same pathogenic organism (or a
                            family member thereof));
             (ii)           prior to immunisation the light chain loci of the vertebrates contain the identical VH
                            gene repertoire (optionally a single VH gene) and optionally the identical J repertoire;
                            optionally the light chain loci of the mammals are identical prior to immunisation;
             (iii)          prior to immunisation the light chain loci of the vertebrates contain the identical
                            rearranged VJ or VDJ repertoire (optionally a single VJ or VDJ); optionally the light
                            chain loci of the vertebrates are identical prior to immunisation.
70.          A method of producing a polyclonal antibody mixture, the method comprising carrying out the
             method of any one of claims 66 to 68 by immunising one or a plurality of vertebrates
             (optionally mice or rats) with first and second antigens and combining the anti-antigen
             antibodies isolated from each vertebrate (or mutants or derivatives of said antibodies) to
             produce a polyclonal antibody mixture; optionally wherein the following apply separately or in
             combination ((i) and (ii); or (i) and (iii)):
             (i)            the antigens are expressed by the same pathogenic organism (or a family member
                            thereof));
             (ii)           prior to immunisation the light chain loci of the vertebrates contain the identical VH
                            gene repertoire (optionally a single VH gene) and optionally the identical J repertoire;
                            optionally the light chain loci of the mammals are identical prior to immunisation;
             (iii)          prior to immunisation the light chain loci of the vertebrates contain the identical
                            rearranged VJ or VDJ repertoire (optionally a single VJ or VDJ); optionally the light
                            chain loci of the vertebrates are identical prior to immunisation.
71.          A method of producing host cells capable of expressing a polyclonal antibody mixture, the
             method comprising, in a method according to claim 67:
             (a)            immunising one or a plurality of vertebrates (optionally mice or rats) with first and
                            second antigens (optionally wherein the different antigens are expressed by the same
                            pathogenic organism (or a family member thereof)); (k) isolating nucleic acid
                            encoding first and second anti-antigen antibodies from B lymphocytes from said
                            vertebrates;
                                                                 97
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

             (I)            determining the nucleotide sequences of the heavy and light chain variable regions of
                            the first antibody;
             (m)            determining the nucleotide sequence of the heavy variable region and optionally the
                            light chain variable region of the second antibody; (n) inserting the heavy chain
                            variable region coding sequence of each antibody into a heavy chain expression
                            vector; optionally wherein the constant region coding sequence of each heavy chain
                            is exchanged for a nucleotide sequence that encodes a human or humanised
                            constant region;
             (o)            inserting the light chain variable region coding sequence of the first antibody into a
                            light chain expression vector; optionally wherein the constant region coding sequence
                            of the light chain of the first antibody is exchanged for a nucleotide sequence that
                            encodes a human or humanised constant region; (p) optionally inserting the light
                            chain variable region coding sequence of the second antibody into a light chain
                            expression vector; optionally wherein the constant region coding sequence of the
                            light chain of the second antibody is exchanged for a nucleotide sequence that
                            encodes a human or humanised constant region; and (q) introducing each expression
                            vector into a host cell and co-expressing antibody chains in a mixture of said host
                            cells to produce antibodies, each antibody comprising one or both of said heavy
                            chain variable regions and a light chain; optionally wherein the expression vectors are
                            introduced together into the same host cell (eg, a CHO or HEK293 cell) so that the
                            cell is capable of expressing antibody light chains and heavy chains, such that the
                            cell or a plurality of the host cells express antibodies, each comprising one or both of
                            said heavy chain variable regions and a light chain;
             (r)            optionally:
                            prior to immunisation the light chain loci of the vertebrates contain the identical VH
                            gene repertoire (optionally a single VH gene segment) and optionally the identical J
                            repertoire (optionally a single J gene segment); optionally the light chain loci of the
                            vertebrates are identical prior to immunisation; or
                            prior to immunisation the light chain loci of the vertebrates contain the identical
                            rearranged VJ or VDJ repertoire (optionally a single VJ or VDJ); optionally the light
                            chain loci of the vertebrates are identical prior to immunisation.
72.          A method of producing a monoclonal or polyclonal antibody mixture, the method comprising
             carrying out the method of claim 71 and expressing a monoclonal antibody or polyclonal
             mixture of said antibodies; optionally followed by isolating an antibody comprising the heavy
             chain variable region of the first and/or second antibodies.
73.          The method of any one of claims 66 to 72, wherein each vertebrate used for immunisation is
             provided by
                                                                 98
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

             (a)            isolating from a human blood or tissue (eg, B lymphocytes, PBMCs, bone marrow,
                            spleen, tonsil or lymph node) sample a B lymphocyte that expresses an antibody that
                            binds a predetermined antigen (eg, an antigen expressed by an infectious disease
                            pathogen; optionally wherein said serum or tissue was from a human individual
                            suffering, susceptible to, or recovered from, a disease or condition caused or
                            mediated by an organism harbouring or secreting said antigen; or from a human
                            individual harbouring said organism);
             (b)            determining which human germline VH gene segment was recombined in the human
                            to produce the nucleotide sequence of said B lymphocyte that encodes the heavy
                            chain variable region of the antibody;
             (c)            constructing a transgenic vertebrate wherein said human germline VH gene segment
                            is provided in a light chain locus thereof according to any one of claims 48 to 63; and
             (d)            providing said transgenic vertebrate for immunisation in the method of any one of
                            claims 66 to 72.
74.          The method of any one of claims 66 to 72, wherein each vertebrate used for immunisation is
             provided by
(a)          isolating from a human blood or tissue (eg, B lymphocytes, PBMCs, bone marrow, spleen,
             tonsil or lymph node) sample a B lymphocyte that expresses an antibody that binds a
             predetermined antigen (eg, an antigen expressed by an infectious disease pathogen;
             optionally wherein said serum or tissue was from a human individual suffering, susceptible to,
             or recovered from, a disease or condition caused or mediated by an organism harbouring or
             secreting said antigen; or from a human individual harbouring said organism);
(b)          determining a nucleotide sequence of said B lymphocyte that encodes a rearranged VDJ or
             VJ region of the antibody;
(c)          constructing a transgenic vertebrate wherein said rearranged VDJ or VJ region is provided in
             a light chain locus thereof according to any one of claims 48 to 64; and
(d)          providing said transgenic vertebrate for immunisation in the method of any one of claims 66 to
             72.
75.          An isolated antibody (eg, IgG-type antibody) obtainable or obtained by the method of claim
             72,or claim 73 or 74 when dependent from claim 72, or a mutant or derivative antibody
             thereof wherein (i) the isolated antibody comprises two copies of the heavy chain variable
             region of said first antibody paired with two copies of the light chain variable region of said
             first antibody; or (ii) the isolated antibody comprises two copies of the heavy chain variable
             region of said second antibody paired with two copies of the light chain variable region of said
             first antibody; or (iii) the isolated antibody is a bispecific antibody comprising one copy of the
             heavy chain variable region of said first antibody paired with a copy of the light chain variable
             region of the first antibody, and one copy of the heavy chain variable region of said the
                                                                99
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

             antibody paired with a copy of the light chain variable region of the first antibody, optionally
             wherein the bispecific antibody binds to said first and second antigens recited in claim 71;
             optionally for use in medicine, optionally for the treatment and/or prevention of an infectious
             disease.
76.          A monoclonal or polyclonal antibody mixture (eg, IgG-type antibody or antibodies), wherein
             the monoclonal antibody or mixture comprises or consists of antibodies produced by the
             method of any one of claims 65 to 71 and 72 to 74, or a mutant or derivative antibody thereof
             optionally for use in medicine, optionally for the treatment and/or prevention of an infectious
             disease, wherein optionally wherein each antibody binds an antigen of an infectious disease
             pathogen, preferably the same antigen.
77.          The use of an isolated, monoclonal or polyclonal antibody according to claim 65, 75 or 76, or
             a mutant or derivative antibody thereof in the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment
             and/or prevention of an infectious disease, optionally wherein the infectious disease is a
             disease caused by a bacterial or viral pathogen.
78.          The antibody, mixture or use according to claim 75, 76 or 77, wherein the infectious disease
             is selected from the group consisting of a disease caused by a pathogen selected from the
             group consisting of Haemophilus influenza, E coli, Neisseria meningitidis, a herpes family
             virus, cytomegalovirus (CMV), HIV and influenza virus.
79.          A nucleotide sequence encoding an antibody of claim 65, 75 or 76, optionally wherein the
             nucleotide sequence is part of a vector.
80.          A pharmaceutical composition comprising the antibody or antibodies of claim 65, 75 or 76 and
             a diluent, excipient or carrier.
81.          A non-human vertebrate (optionally a mouse or a rat) or vertebrate cell whose genome
             comprises:
             (c)            An immunoglobulin heavy chain locus comprising either:
                            (i)   one or more human VL gene segments, one or more human D gene
                                  segments and one or more human J gene segments upstream of a constant
                                  region (optionally a rearranged VLDJHCH or VxDJHCH); or
                            (ii)  one or more human VH gene segments selected from the group consisting
                                  of: a VHIII gene family member (optionally, a VHIlla or VHIllb family
                                  member), a VHIV gene family member, VHIII 9.1 (VH3-15), VHIII VH26
                                  (VH3-23), VH3-21, LSG6.1, LSG12.1, DP77 (V3-21), VH H11, VH1GRR,
                                  ha3h2, VHI-halcl, VHIII-VH2-1, VH4.18, ha4h3, Hv1051, 71-2, Hv1f1O,
                                  VH4.11, 71-4, VH251, VH1-69 and a gene segment at least 80% identical;
                                  one or more human D gene segments and one or more human JH gene
                                  segments upstream of a constant region; and
                                                             100
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

             (d)            An immunoglobulin light chain locus comprising one or more human V gene
                            segments and one or more human J gene segments upstream of a constant region,
                            optionally wherein the light chain locus is according to (b)(i) or (b)(ii) of claim 48.
             Wherein the gene segments in the heavy chain locus are operably linked to the constant
             region thereof, and the gene segments in the light chain locus are operably linked to the
             constant region thereof, so that upon immunisation the mouse is capable of producing an
             antibody comprising heavy chains produced by recombination of the heavy chain locus and
             light chains produced by recombination of the light chain locus.
82.          The vertebrate or cell of claim 81, wherein the V gene segment repertoire of the light chain
             locus comprises or consists of one or more VL gene segments selected from the group
             consisting of a Vxll gene family member, VxVII 4A, Vxll 2.1, VxVII 4A, a Vx1 gene family
             member, a Vx3gene family member, IGLV1S2, Vx3-cML70, lalh2, lalvl, la3h3, Kv325, a VKI
             gene family member, KI-15A (KL012), VKII family member, a VKIII family member, a VKI
             gene family member, KI-15A (KL012), VKII A2 (optionally the A2a allele), VK A27
             (Humkv325) and a gene segment at least 80% identical thereto; and/or wherein or in (a)(ii)
             the heavy chain locus V gene segment repertoire consists of one VH gene segment type
             (optionally and one or mutants thereof), wherein the VH gene segment is selected from said
             group of VH gene segments.
83.          The vertebrate or cell of any claim 81 or 82, wherein in (a) said constant region is a heavy
             chain endogenous non-human vertebrate (optionally host mouse or rat) constant region
             and/or in (b) said constant region is a light chain endogenous non-human vertebrate
             (optionally host mouse or rat) constant region.
84.          The vertebrate or cell of any one of claims 81 to 83, wherein endogenous heavy and light
             chain expression has been inactivated.
85.          A non-human vertebrate (optionally a mouse or a rat) or vertebrate cell whose genome
             comprises:
             (a)
                            (i)     An unrearranged immunoglobulin heavy chain locus comprising one or more
                                     human VL gene segments, one or more human D gene segments and one or
                                     more JH gene segments upstream of a constant region, wherein each human
                                    VL gene segment is a human gene segment identical to (or mutant of) a
                                     human VL gene segment used to produce a rearranged VJ encoding a light
                                     chain variable region of a human antibody from an antibody-expressing cell
                                    wherein said antibody binds to an antigen of an infectious disease pathogen
                                     (optionally the variable regions of said antibody being identical to an antibody
                                    from a human individual suffering, susceptible to, or recovered from, a
                                    disease or condition caused or mediated by an organism harbouring or
                                    secreting said antigen; or from a human individual harbouring said organism);
                                    or
                                                                101
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

                            (ii)     An immunoglobulin heavy chain locus comprising a rearranged VJ region or
                                     VDJ region upstream of a constant region, wherein the nucleotide sequence
                                     of the recombined region is identical to a nucleotide sequence produced by
                                     the recombination of a human J gene segment and optionally a human D
                                     gene segment with a human VL gene segment that is identical to (or mutant
                                     of) the human VL gene segment used to produce a rearranged VJ encoding
                                     a light chain variable region of a human antibody from an antibody
                                     expressing cell wherein said antibody binds to an antigen of an infectious
                                     disease pathogen (optionally the variable regions of said antibody being
                                     identical to an antibody from a human individual suffering, susceptible to, or
                                     recovered from, a disease or condition caused or mediated by an organism
                                     harbouring or secreting said antigen; or from a human individual harbouring
                                     said organism);
             (b)            An immunoglobulin light chain locus comprising one or more human V gene
                            segments and one or more human J gene segments upstream of a constant region;
                            and
             (c)            Wherein the gene segments in the light chain locus are operably linked to the
                            constant region thereof, and the gene segments or VJ or VDJ in the heavy chain
                            locus are operably linked to the constant region thereof, so that upon immunisation
                            the mouse is capable of producing an antibody comprising light chains produced by
                            recombination of the light chain locus and heavy chains derived from the heavy chain
                            locus;
             (d)            Optionally when (a)(i) applies, each said VL gene segment in the heavy chain locus is
                            selected from the group consisting of a VAII gene family member, VAVII 4A, VAII 2.1,
                            VA.VII 4A, a VA1 gene family member, a VA3gene family member, IGLV1S2, VA3
                            cML70, lalh2, lalvl, la3h3, Kv325, a VKI gene family member, KI-15A (KL012), VKII
                            family member, a VKIII family member, a VKI gene family member, KI-15A (KL012),
                            VKII A2 (optionally the A2a allele), VK A27 (Humkv325) and a gene segment at least
                            80% identical thereto;
             (e)            Optionally when (a)(ii) applies, the nucleotide sequence of the recombined region is
                            identical to a nucleotide sequence produced by the recombination of a human J gene
                            segment and optionally a human D gene segment with a human VL gene segment
                            selected from the group consisting of a VL gene segment selected from the group
                            consisting of a VAII gene family member, VAVII 4A, VAII 2.1, VAVII 4A, a VA1 gene
                            family member, a VA3gene family member, IGLV1S2, VA3-cML70, lalh2, lalvl, la3h3,
                            Kv325, a VKI gene family member, KI-15A (KL012), VKII family member, a VKIII
                            family member, a VKI gene family member, KI-15A (KL012), VKII A2 (optionally the
                            A2a allele), VK A27 (Humkv325) and a gene segment at least 80% identical thereto.
86.          The vertebrate or cell of claim 85, wherein the VL gene segments of the heavy chain locus
             are VA gene segments.
                                                               102
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

87.          The vertebrate or cell of claim 85 or 86, wherein in (a) said constant region is a heavy chain
             endogenous non-human vertebrate (optionally host mouse or rat) constant region.
88.          The vertebrate or cell of claim 85, 86 or 87, wherein in (b) said constant region is a light chain
             endogenous non-human vertebrate (optionally host mouse or rat) constant region.
89.          The vertebrate or cell of any one of claims 85 to 88, wherein the genome of said vertebrate or
             cell is homozygous for heavy chain locus (a)(i) or (ii); optionally wherein:
             -              the V gene segment repertoire of the heavy chain loci consists of one or more human
                            VL gene segments selected from the group consisting of a VL gene segment
                            selected from the group consisting of a VAII gene family member, VAVII 4A, VAII 2.1,
                            VAVII 4A, a VA1 gene family member, a VA3gene family member, IGLV1S2, VA3
                            cML70, lalh2, lalvl, la3h3, Kv325, a VKI gene family member, KI-15A (KL012), VKII
                            family member, a VKIII family member, a VKI gene family member, KI-15A (KL012),
                            VKII A2 (optionally the A2a allele), VK A27 (Humkv325) and a gene segment at least
                            80% identical thereto; or
             -              the recombined VJ or VDJ repertoire of the heavy chain loci consists of sequences
                            identical to one or more nucleotide sequences produced by the recombination of a
                            human VL gene segment selected from the group consisting of a VL gene segment
                            selected from the group consisting of a VAII gene family member, VAVII 4A, VAII 2.1,
                            VAVII 4A, a VA1 gene family member, a VA3gene family member, IGLV1S2, VA3
                            cML70, lalh2, lalvl, la3h3, Kv325, a VKI gene family member, KI- 15A (KL012), VKII
                            family member, a VKIII family member, a VKI gene family member, KI-15A (KL012),
                            VKII A2 (optionally the A2a allele), VK A27 (Humkv325) and a gene segment at least
                            80% identical thereto with a human J gene segment and optionally a human D gene
                            segment.
90.          The vertebrate or cell of any one of claims 85 to 89, wherein endogenous heavy and light
             chain expression has been inactivated, and wherein heavy chain loci according to any one of
             claims 85 to 89 are the only functional heavy chain loci in the genome of the vertebrate or
             cell.
91.          The vertebrate or cell of any one of claims 85 to 90, wherein each immunoglobulin heavy
             chain locus of said vertebrate or cell is according to (a)(i) recited in claim 85 and comprises
             only a single human VL gene segment selected from the group consisting of a VL gene
             segment selected from the group consisting of a VAII gene family member, VAVII 4A, VAII
             2.1, VAVII 4A, a VA1 gene family member, a VA3gene family member, IGLV1S2, VA3
             cML70, lalh2, lalvl, la3h3, Kv325, a VKI gene family member, KI-15A (KL012), VKII family
             member, a VKIII family member, a VKI gene family member, KI-15A (KL012), VKII A2
             (optionally the A2a allele), VK A27 (Humkv325) and a gene segment at least 80% identical
             thereto, optionally wherein the genome of the vertebrate or cell is homozygous for said heavy
             chain so that all heavy chain loci comprise the same, single human VL gene segment.
                                                              103
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

92.                         The vertebrate or cell of any one of claims 85 to 90, wherein each immunoglobulin
                            heavy chain locus of said vertebrate or cell is according to (a)(ii) recited in claim 85
                            and comprises only a single rearranged VJ or VDJ region, optionally wherein the
                            genome of the vertebrate or cell is homozygous for said heavy chain so that all heavy
                            chain loci comprise the same, single rearranged VJ or VDJ region.
93.          The vertebrate or cell according to claim 91 or 92, wherein each immunoglobulin heavy chain
             locus further comprises a VL gene segment or rearranged region that is a mutant respectively
             of said selected human VL gene segment or rearranged region, optionally wherein the
             genome of the vertebrate or cell is homozygous for said light chain mutant VL gene segment
             or rearranged region.
94.          The vertebrate or cell according to claim 91, wherein each immunoglobulin heavy chain locus
             comprises only two human VL gene segments selected from said group, optionally wherein
             the genome of the vertebrate or cell is homozygous for said two heavy chain human VL gene
             segments.
95.          The vertebrate or cell according to claim 92, wherein each immunoglobulin heavy chain locus
             comprises only two of said rearranged VJ or VDJ regions, optionally wherein the genome of
             the vertebrate or cell is homozygous for said two heavy chain rearranged VJ or VDJ regions.
96.          A monoclonal or polyclonal antibody composition prepared by immunisation of at least one
             vertebrate (eg, mouse or rat) according to any one of claims 81 to 95 with an antigen,
             optionally wherein the antigen is an antigen of an infectious disease pathogen, optionally
             wherein the same antigen is used to immunise all the vertebrates; optionally wherein the
             antibody or antibodies are IgG-type.
97.          A method of isolating an antibody that binds a predetermined antigen, the method comprising
             (a)            providing a vertebrate (optionally a mouse or rat) according to any one of claims 81 to
                            95;
             (b)            immunising said vertebrate with said antigen (optionally wherein the antigen is an
                            antigen of an infectious disease pathogen);
             (c)            removing B lymphocytes from the vertebrate and selecting one or more B
                            lymphocytes expressing antibodies that bind to the antigen;
             (d)            optionally immortalising said selected B lymphocytes or progeny thereof, optionally by
                            producing hybridomas therefrom; and
             (e)            isolating an antibody (eg, and IgG-type antibody) expressed by the B lymphocytes.
98.          The method of claim 97, comprising the step of isolating from said B lymphocytes nucleic acid
             encoding said antibody that binds said antigen; optionally exchanging the heavy chain
             constant region nucleotide sequence of the antibody with a nucleotide sequence encoding a
                                                              104
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

             human or humanised heavy chain constant region and optionally affinity maturing the variable
             region of said antibody; and optionally inserting said nucleic acid into an expression vector
             and optionally a host.
99.          The method of claim 97 or 98, further comprising making a mutant or derivative of the
             antibody produced by the method of claim 97 or 98.
100.         A method of producing a polyclonal antibody mixture, the method comprising carrying out the
             method of any one of claims 97 to 99 by separately immunising first and second vertebrates
             (optionally first and second mice or first and second rats) with antigen and combining the anti
             antigen antibodies isolated from each vertebrate (or mutants or derivatives of said antibodies)
             to produce a polyclonal antibody mixture; optionally wherein the following apply separately or
             in combination ((i) and (ii); or (i) and (iii)):
             (i)            the vertebrates are immunised with the same antigen or different antigens (optionally
                            wherein the different antigens are expressed by the same pathogenic organism (or a
                            family member thereof));
             (ii)           prior to immunisation the heavy chain loci of the vertebrates contain the identical VL
                            gene repertoire (optionally a single VL gene) and optionally the identical D and/or J
                            repertoire; optionally the heavy chain loci of the mammals are identical prior to
                            immunisation;
             (iii)          prior to immunisation the heavy chain loci of the vertebrates contain the identical
                            rearranged VJ or VDJ repertoire (optionally a single VJ or VDJ); optionally the heavy
                            chain loci of the vertebrates are identical prior to immunisation.
101.         A method of producing a polyclonal antibody mixture, the method comprising carrying out the
             method of any one of claims 97 to 99 by immunising one or a plurality of vertebrates
             (optionally mice or rats) with first and second antigens and combining the anti-antigen
             antibodies isolated from each vertebrate (or mutants or derivatives of said antibodies) to
             produce a polyclonal antibody mixture; optionally wherein the following apply separately or in
             combination ((i) and (ii); or (i) and (iii)):
             (i)            the antigens are expressed by the same pathogenic organism (or a family member
                            thereof));
             (ii)           prior to immunisation the heavy chain loci of the vertebrates contain the identical VL
                            gene repertoire (optionally a single VL gene) and optionally the identical D and/or J
                            repertoire; optionally the heavy chain loci of the mammals are identical prior to
                            immunisation;
             (iii)          prior to immunisation the heavy chain loci of the vertebrates contain the identical
                            rearranged VJ or VDJ repertoire (optionally a single VJ or VDJ); optionally the heavy
                            chain loci of the vertebrates are identical prior to immunisation.
                                                               105
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

102.         A method of producing host cells capable of expressing a polyclonal antibody mixture, the
             method comprising, in a method according to claim 98:
             (a)            immunising one or a plurality of vertebrates (optionally mice or rats) with first and
                            second antigens (optionally wherein the different antigens are expressed by the same
                            pathogenic organism (or a family member thereof));
             (b)            isolating nucleic acid encoding first and second anti-antigen antibodies from B
                            lymphocytes from said vertebrates;
             (c)            determining the nucleotide sequences of the heavy and light chain variable regions of
                            the first antibody;
             (d)            determining the nucleotide sequence of the light variable region and optionally the
                            heavy chain variable region of the second antibody;
             (e)            inserting the light chain variable region coding sequence of each antibody into a light
                            chain expression vector; optionally wherein the constant region coding sequence of
                            each light chain is exchanged for a nucleotide sequence that encodes a human or
                            humanised constant region;
             (f)            inserting the heavy chain variable region coding sequence of the first antibody into a
                            heavy chain expression vector; optionally wherein the constant region coding
                            sequence of the heavy chain of the first antibody is exchanged for a nucleotide
                            sequence that encodes a human or humanised constant region;
             (g)            optionally inserting the heavy chain variable region coding sequence of the second
                            antibody into a heavy chain expression vector; optionally wherein the constant region
                            coding sequence of the heavy chain of the second antibody is exchanged for a
                            nucleotide sequence that encodes a human or humanised constant region; and
(h)          introducing each expression vector into a host cell and co-expressing antibody chains in a
             mixture of said host cells to produce antibodies, each antibody comprising one or both of said
             light chain variable regions and a heavy chain; optionally wherein the expression vectors are
             introduced together into the same host cell (eg, a CHO or HEK293 cell) so that the cell is
             capable of expressing antibody light chains and heavy chains, such that the cell or a plurality
             of the host cells express antibodies, each comprising one or both of said light chain variable
             regions and a heavy chain;
(i)          optionally:
             prior to immunisation the heavy chain loci of the vertebrates contain the identical VL gene
             repertoire (optionally a single VL gene segment) and optionally the identical D and/or J
             repertoire (optionally a single D and J gene segment); optionally the heavy chain loci of the
             vertebrates are identical prior to immunisation; or
                                                               106
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

             prior to immunisation the heavy chain loci of the vertebrates contain the identical rearranged
             VJ or VDJ repertoire (optionally a single VJ or VDJ); optionally the heavy chain loci of the
             vertebrates are identical prior to immunisation.
103.         A method of producing a monoclonal antibody or polyclonal antibody mixture, the method
             comprising carrying out the method of claim 102 and expressing a monoclonal antibody or
             polyclonal mixture of said antibodies; optionally followed by isolating an antibody comprising
             the light chain variable region of the first and/or second antibodies.
104.         The method of any one of claims 97 to 103, wherein each vertebrate used for immunisation is
             provided by
             (a)            isolating from a human blood or tissue (eg, B lymphocytes, PBMCs, bone marrow,
                            spleen, tonsil or lymph node) sample a B lymphocyte that expresses an antibody that
                            binds a predetermined antigen (eg, an antigen expressed by an infectious disease
                            pathogen; optionally wherein said serum or tissue was from a human individual
                            suffering, susceptible to, or recovered from, a disease or condition caused or
                            mediated by an organism harbouring or secreting said antigen; or from a human
                            individual harbouring said organism);
             (b)            determining which human germline VL gene segment was recombined in the human
                            to produce the nucleotide sequence of said B lymphocyte that encodes the light chain
                            variable region of the antibody;
             (c)            constructing a transgenic vertebrate wherein said human germline VL gene segment
                            is provided in a heavy chain locus thereof according to any one of claims 81 to 95;
                            and
             (d)            providing said transgenic vertebrate for immunisation in the method of any one of
                            claims 97 to 103.
105.         The method of any one of claims 97 to 103, wherein each vertebrate used for immunisation is
             provided by
             (a)            isolating from a human blood or tissue (eg, B lymphocytes, PBMCs, bone marrow,
                            spleen, tonsil or lymph node) sample a B lymphocyte that expresses an antibody that
                            binds a predetermined antigen (eg, an antigen expressed by an infectious disease
                            pathogen; optionally wherein said serum or tissue was from a human individual
                            suffering, susceptible to, or recovered from, a disease or condition caused or
                            mediated by an organism harbouring or secreting said antigen; or from a human
                            individual harbouring said organism);
             (b)            determining a nucleotide sequence of said B lymphocyte that encodes a rearranged
                            VDJ or VJ region of the antibody;
                                                              107
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

             (c)            constructing a transgenic vertebrate wherein said rearranged VDJ or VJ region is
                            provided in a heavy chain locus thereof according to any one of claims 81 to 95; and
             (d)            providing said transgenic vertebrate for immunisation in the method of any one of
                            claims 97 to 103.
106.         An isolated antibody (eg, IgG-type antibody) obtainable or obtained by the method of claim
              103,or claim 104 or 105 when dependent from claim 103, or a mutant or derivative antibody
             thereof wherein (i) the isolated antibody comprises two copies of the heavy chain variable
             region of said first antibody paired with two copies of the light chain variable region of said
             first antibody; or (ii) the isolated antibody comprises two copies of the heavy chain variable
             region of said second antibody paired with two copies of the light chain variable region of said
             first antibody; or (iii) the isolated antibody is a bispecific antibody comprising one copy of the
             heavy chain variable region of said first antibody paired with a copy of the light chain variable
             region of the first antibody, and one copy of the heavy chain variable region of said the
             antibody paired with a copy of the light chain variable region of the first antibody, optionally
             wherein the bispecific antibody binds to said first and second antigens recited in claim 102;
             optionally for use in medicine, optionally for the treatment and/or prevention of an infectious
             disease.
 107.        A monoclonal or polyclonal antibody mixture (eg, IgG-type antibody or antibodies), wherein
             the monoclonal antibody or mixture comprises or consists of antibodies produced by the
             method of any one of claims 97 to 101 and 103 to 105, or a mutant or derivative antibody
             thereof optionally for use in medicine, optionally for the treatment and/or prevention of an
             infectious disease, wherein optionally wherein each antibody binds an antigen of an infectious
             disease pathogen, preferably the same antigen.
 108.        An isolated chimaeric antibody for treating and/or preventing an infectious disease or
             condition, the antibody comprising a non-human vertebrate (optionally a mouse or rat) heavy
             chain constant regions and human variable regions that bind an antigen of an infectious
             disease pathogen, wherein the antibody is obtainable or obtained in a method comprising
             immunisation of a vertebrate of any one of claims 48 to 64 and 81 to 95 with said antigen.
 109.        An isolated human antibody for treating and/or preventing an infectious disease or condition,
             the antibody comprising human heavy chain constant regions and human variable regions
             that bind an antigen of an infectious disease pathogen, wherein the antibody is obtainable or
             obtained in a method comprising affinity maturation of antibody variable regions in vivo in a
             transgenic non-human vertebrate (eg, mouse or rat) when said variable regions are operably
             linked to heavy chain constant regions of said vertebrate (eg, mouse or rat heavy chain
             constant regions) by (a) immunisation of a vertebrate of any one of claims 48 to 64 and 81 to
             95 with said antigen, (b) isolation of nucleic acid encoding a chimaeric antibody according to
             claim
 108.        (c) replacing the nucleotide sequences of the nucleic acid that encode the non-human
             vertebrate heavy chain constant regions with nucleotide sequence encoding human heavy
                                                             108
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

             chain constant regions to produce nucleic acid encoding a human antibody; (d) expressing
             the human antibody in vitro (optionally from CHO or HEK293 cells harbouring the human
             nucleic acid) and (e) isolating the human antibody (optionally with further affinity maturation of
             the antibody and/or producing a derivative thereof).
110.         An antibody comprising human variable domains that bind a predetermined antigen (eg, an
             antigen expressed by a bacterial or viral pathogen), wherein the variable domain sequences
             are encoded by rearranged VDJ and VJ regions, each of the VDJ and/or VJ being a hybrid
             region produced by the in vivo rearrangement of human heavy and light chain variable region
             gene segments (V and J and optionally D segments); optionally wherein the antibody
             comprises human constant regions.
111.         A mixture of first and second human antibodies, each antibody being according to claim 109
             or 110 and capable of binding to an antigen of an infectious disease pathogen (optionally
             wherein the first antibody binds a first antigen and the second antibody binds a second
             antigen, said antigens being from the same pathogen; or wherein the antigens are the same).
112.         The mixture of claim 111, wherein the light chain amino acid sequence of the first antibody is
             identical to the light chain amino acid sequence of the second antibody, or has up to 15
             amino acid changes therefrom.
113.         The use of an isolated, monoclonal or polyclonal antibody or mixture according to any one of
             claims 96 and 106 to 112, in the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment and/or
             prevention of an infectious disease, optionally wherein the infectious disease is a disease
             caused by a bacterial or viral pathogen.
 114.        The antibody, mixture or use according to any one of claims 96 and 106 to 112, wherein the
             infectious disease is selected from the group consisting of a disease caused by a pathogen
             selected from the group consisting of Haemophilus influenza, E coli, Neisseria meningitidis, a
             herpes family virus, cytomegalovirus (CMV), HIV and influenza virus.
 115.        First and second nucleotide sequences encoding the heavy and light chains of an antibody
             recited in any one of claims 96 and 106 to 112 or at least the variable regions thereof,
             optionally wherein each nucleotide sequence is part of a vector.
 116.        A host cell comprising one or more expression vectors encoding the heavy chains of the first
             and second antibodies recited in claim 110 or 112, and the light chain of the first antibody
             recited in claim 110 or 112 (and optionally also the light chain of the second antibody recited
             in claim 110 or 112).
 117.        A pharmaceutical composition comprising the antibody or antibodies recited in any one of
             claims 96 and 106 to 112 and a diluent, excipient or carrier; optionally wherein the
             composition is provided in a container connected to an IV needle or syringe or in an IV bag.
 118.        A synthetic immunoglobulin locus comprising one or more variable and J gene segments (and
             optionally one or more D gene segments) operably linked 5' of a constant region, wherein the
                                                       109
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

             locus comprises a 5' to 3' V(D)J arrangement selected from the group consisting of
             immunoglobulin locus can be constructed with one or more of the following arrangements (5'
             to 3'):
             (a)            [V (heavy, lambda or kappa)] - [two-turn RSS] - [one-turn RSS] - [D] - [JH], wherein
                            said RSSs are in an opposite orientation;
             (b)            [VH] - [D] - [two-turn RSS] -    [one-turn RSS] - [J lambda], wherein said RSSs are in
                            an opposite orientation;
             (c)            [VH] - [D] - [one-turn RSS] -   [two-turn RSS] - [J kappa], wherein said RSSs are in an
                            opposite orientation;
             (d)            [VH or V kappa] - [two-turn RSS] -       [one-turn RSS] - [J lambda], wherein said RSSs
                            are in an opposite orientation;
             (e)            [V kappa] - [one-turn RSS] -      [two-turn RSS] - [JH or J lambda], wherein said RSSs
                            are in an opposite orientation;
             (f)            [V (heavy, lambda or kappa)] - [one-turn RSS] -       [two-turn RSS] - [D] - [JH], wherein
                            said RSSs are in an opposite orientation;
             (g)            [VH] - [D] - [one-turn RSS] -     [two-turn RSS] - [J lambda], wherein said RSSs are in
                            an opposite orientation;
             (h)            [VH] - [D] - [two-turn RSS] -   [one-turn RSS] - [J kappa], wherein said RSSs are in an
                            opposite orientation;
             (i)            [VH or V kappa] - [one-turn RSS] -       [two-turn RSS] - [J lambda], wherein said RSSs
                            are in an opposite orientation;
             (j)            [V kappa] - [two-turn RSS] -     [one-turn RSS] - [JH or J lambda], wherein said RSSs
                            are in an opposite orientation.
119.         A non-human vertebrate (eg, a mouse or rat) or cell comprising the locus of claim 118.
120.         A method of producing a repertoire of antibody heavy chains comprising one or more heavy
chains whose variable domain HCDR3 has a length of at least 20 amino acids according to IMGT and
is derived from the recombination of a human heavy chain V gene segment, human D gene segment
and human heavy chain J gene segment,
             wherein the heavy chain V gene segment is selected from the group IGHV1-2*02, IGHV1
18*01, IGHV3-7*01, IGHV6-1*01,                    IGHV3-9*01, IGHV2-5*10, IGHV7-4-1*01, IGHV1-3*01,            IGHV4
4*02, IGHV3-13*01, IGHV3-23*04, IGHV1-8*01, IGHV3-21*03 and IGHV3-11*01, and
             the D gene segment is selected from the group IGHD2-2*02, IGHD3-9*01, IGHD3-10*01,
IGHD6-13*01, IGHD4-17*01, IGHD6-19*01, IGHD3-22*01 and IGHD1-26*01,
                                                                 110
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

             wherein the method comprises producing antibodies comprising the repertoire of antibody
heavy chains in vivo in a vertebrate, wherein the vertebrate is a mouse or rat.
121.         A method according to claim 120, wherein the vertebrate is a transgenic mouse or rat whose
genome comprises
(a)          an immunoglobulin heavy chain locus comprising one or more human V gene segments; one
or more human D gene segments and one or more human J gene segments upstream of a constant
region,
             wherein the heavy chain locus comprises VH and/or D gene segments capable of yielding
HCDR3s of 20 or more amino acids in length, comprising VH gene segments IGHV1-2*02, IGHV1
18*01, IGHV3-7*01, IGHV6-1*01,               IGHV3-9*01, IGHV2-5*10, IGHV7-4-1*01, IGHV1-3*01,     IGHV4
4*02,       IGHV3-13*01,          IGHV3-23*04,  IGHV1-8*01,  IGHV3-21*03    and/or   IGHV3-11*01,   and/or
comprising D segments IGHD2-2*02, IGHD3-9*01,                 IGHD3-10*01,    IGHD6-13*01,   IGHD4-17*01,
IGHD6-19*01, IGHD3-22*01 and/or IGHD1-26*01, and
(b)          an immunoglobulin light chain locus comprising one or more human V gene segments and
one or more human J gene segments upstream of a constant region,
             wherein the gene segments in the heavy chain locus are operably linked to the constant
region thereof, and the gene segments in the light chain locus are operably linked to the constant
region thereof, so that upon immunisation the mouse or rat is capable of producing an antibody
comprising heavy chains produced by recombination of the heavy chain locus and light chains
produced by recombination of the light chain locus.
122.         A method according to claim 121, wherein the heavy chain constant region is an endogenous
constant region of the mouse or rat.
123.         A method according to claim 121 or claim 122, wherein the light chain constant region is a
human lambda or kappa constant region.
124.         A method according to claim 121 or claim 122, wherein the light chain constant region is a
mouse lambda or kappa constant region.
125.         A method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein expression of endogenous heavy
and light chains has been inactivated in the vertebrate.
126.         A method of obtaining an antigen-specific heavy chain provided by an antibody, the method
comprising
             exposing the repertoire of any of preceding claim to a predetermined antigen, and
             selecting one or more heavy chains that specifically bind to the antigen, wherein one or more
heavy chains is isolated that has a HCDR3 length of at least 20 amino acids.
                                                        111
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

127.         A method according to any of the preceding claims, further comprising obtaining an isolated
antibody comprising the antigen-specific heavy chain, wherein
             the antibody comprises two copies of the heavy chain variable region paired with two copies
of a light chain variable region, or wherein
             the antibody is a bispecific antibody comprising one copy of the heavy chain variable region
of a first antibody paired with a copy of the light chain variable region of the first antibody, and one
copy of the heavy chain variable region of a second antibody paired with a copy of the light chain
variable region of the first antibody.
128.         A method according to claim 126 or claim 127, wherein the heavy chain has a non-human
constant region and the method comprises swapping the non-human constant region for a human
constant region to provide a human antibody heavy chain, and providing an antibody comprising the
human heavy chain in combination with a human light chain.
129.         A method of producing an antibody with an HCDR3 sequence of at least 20 amino acids in
length, wherein the antibody binds a target antigen, the method comprising
(a)          providing a transgenic mouse or rat whose genome comprises
                            an immunoglobulin heavy chain locus comprising one or more human heavy chain V
             gene segments; one or more human D gene segments and one or more human heavy chain
             J gene segments upstream of a constant region;
                            wherein the heavy chain locus comprises V and/or D gene segments capable of
             yielding HCDR3s of 20 or more amino acids in length, comprising V gene segments IGHV1
             2*02, IGHV1-18*01,          IGHV3-7*01,  IGHV6-1*01,  IGHV3-9*01, IGHV2-5*10, IGHV7-4-1*01,
             IGHV1-3*01, IGHV4-4*02, IGHV3-13*01,            IGHV3-23*04, IGHV1-8*01, IGHV3-21*03 and/or
             IGHV3-11*01,          and/or comprising D segments IGHD2-2*02,      IGHD3-9*01,  IGHD3-10*01,
             IGHD6-13*01, IGHD4-17*01, IGHD6-19*01, IGHD3-22*01 and/or IGHD1-26*01, and
                            an immunoglobulin light chain locus comprising one or more human V gene
             segments and one or more human J gene segments upstream of a constant region,
                            wherein the gene segments in the heavy chain locus are operably linked to the
             constant region thereof, and the gene segments in the light chain locus are operably linked to
             the constant region thereof, so that upon immunisation the mouse or rat is capable of
             producing an antibody comprising heavy chains produced by recombination of the heavy
             chain locus and light chains produced by recombination of the light chain locus;
(b)          immunising said mouse or rat with said antigen;
(c)          removing B lymphocytes from the mouse or rat and selecting one or more B lymphocytes
expressing antibodies that bind to the antigen;
(d)          optionally immortalising said selected B lymphocytes or progeny thereof, optionally by
producing hybridomas therefrom; and
                                                          112
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

(e)          isolating an antibody expressed by the B lymphocytes.
130.         A method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the heavy chain J gene segment
is JH6.
131.         A method according to claim 130, wherein the heavy chain J gene segment is JH6*02.
132.         A method according to any one of claims 129 to 131, comprising the step of isolating from
said B lymphocytes a nucleic acid encoding said antibody that binds said antigen.
133.         A method according to claim 132, wherein the heavy chain constant region of the antibody is
non-human and the method comprises exchanging the heavy chain constant region nucleotide
sequence with a nucleotide sequence encoding a human or humanised heavy chain constant region.
134.         A method according to claim 132 or claim 133, further comprising affinity maturing the
variable region of said antibody.
135.         A method according to any one of claims 132 to 134, further comprising inserting said nucleic
acid into an expression vector and optionally a host cell.
136.         A method according to any one of claims 127 to 135, further comprising making a mutant or
derivative of the antibody produced by the method.
137.         A method of isolating a bispecific antibody that binds first and second antigens,
             the method comprising:
       (a) providing non-human vertebrate, wherein the vertebrate is a transgenic mouse or rat whose
             genome comprises
             an immunoglobulin heavy chain locus comprising one or more human heavy chain V gene
segments; one or more human D gene segments and one or more human heavy chain J gene
segments upstream of a constant region;
             wherein the heavy chain locus comprises V and/or D gene segments capable of yielding
HCDR3s of 20 or more amino acids in length, comprising V gene segments IGHV1-2*02, IGHV1
18*01, IGHV3-7*01, IGHV6-1*01, IGHV3-9*01, IGHV2-5*10, IGHV7-4-1*01, IGHV1-3*01, IGHV4
4*02,       IGHV3-13*01,          IGHV3-23*04, IGHV1-8*01,    IGHV3-21*03      and/or IGHV3-11*01,   and/or
comprising D segments IGHD2-2*02, IGHD3-9*01,                  IGHD3-10*01, IGHD6-13*01,       IGHD4-17*01,
IGHD6-19*01, IGHD3-22*01 and/or IGHD1-26*01, and
             an immunoglobulin light chain locus comprising one or more human V gene segments and
one or more human J gene segments upstream of a constant region,
                                                       113
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

             wherein the gene segments in the heavy chain locus are operably linked to the constant
region thereof, and the gene segments in the light chain locus are operably linked to the constant
region thereof, so that upon immunisation the mouse or rat is capable of producing an antibody
comprising heavy chains produced by recombination of the heavy chain locus and light chains
produced by recombination of the light chain locus;
       (b) immunising one or a plurality of said non-human vertebrates with first and second antigens,
       (c) isolating nucleic acid encoding first and second anti-antigen antibodies from B lymphocytes
             from said vertebrates,
       (d) determining the nucleotide sequences of the heavy and light chain variable regions of the first
             antibody,
       (e) determining the nucleotide sequence of the heavy and light chain variable regions of the
             second antibody,
       (f) inserting the light chain variable region coding sequence of each antibody into a light chain
             expression vector, optionally wherein the constant region coding sequence of each light chain
             is exchanged for a nucleotide sequence that encodes a human constant region,
       (g) inserting the heavy chain variable region coding sequence of the first antibody into a heavy
             chain expression vector, optionally wherein the constant region coding sequence of the heavy
             chain of the first antibody is exchanged for a nucleotide sequence that encodes a human
             constant region,
       (h) inserting the heavy chain variable region coding sequence of the second antibody into a
             heavy chain expression vector, optionally wherein the constant region coding sequence of the
             heavy chain of the second antibody is exchanged for a nucleotide sequence that encodes a
             human constant region,
       (i) introducing each expression vector into a host cell and co-expressing antibody chains in a
             mixture of host cells to produce antibodies, each antibody comprising one or both of said light
             chain variable regions and a heavy chain, and
       ()    isolating a bispecific antibody comprising one copy of the heavy chain variable region of the
             first antibody paired with a copy of the light chain variable region of the first antibody, and one
             copy of the heavy chain variable region of the second antibody paired with a copy of the light
             chain variable region of the first antibody.
138.         A method according to claim 136 or claim 137, wherein the first and second antigen are
antigens of an infectious disease pathogen.
139.         A method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the light chain locus V gene
segment repertoire consists of only one VL gene segment type, wherein the VL gene segment is
selected from a VN gene family member, V%/II 4A, V             N 2.1, a VA gene family member, a V8 gene
family member, IGLV1S2, V8-cML70, lalh2, lalvl, la 3h3, Kv325, a Vkgene family member, k-15A
                                                         114
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

(KL012), VM family member, a VNI family member,            a Vkgene family member, VM A2 (optionally
the A2a allele) or VA27 (Humkv325).
140.         Use of a mouse or rat for producing a repertoire of antibody heavy chains comprising one or
more heavy chains whose variable domain HCDR3 has a length of at least 20 amino acids according
to IMGT and is derived from the recombination of a human heavy chain V gene segment, human D
gene segment and human heavy chain J gene segment,
             wherein the heavy chain V gene segment is selected from the group IGHV1-2*02, IGHV1
18*01, IGHV3-7*01, IGHV6-1*01,           IGHV3-9*01, IGHV2-5*10, IGHV7-4-1*01, IGHV1-3*01,       IGHV4
4*02, IGHV3-13*01, IGHV3-23*04, IGHV1-8*01, IGHV3-21*03 and IGHV3-11*01,
             the D gene segment is selected from the group segments IGHD2-2*02, IGHD3-9*01, IGHD3
10*01, IGHD6-13*01, IGHD4-17*01, IGHD6-19*01, IGHD3-22*01 and IGHD1-26*01,
             and optionally the J gene segment is JH6.
141.         Use according to claim 140, wherein the J gene segment is JH6*02.
                                                     115
9543290_1 (GHMatters) P96496.AU.1

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-date>
                               !
                          "# $ #           %     %&     ""    %      %'                    ( ) *            + # ( "               #   '%(+
                           , *#$
                  -            ../ 0
                  0
<removed-apn>
                  .       $!       1   1 2 3 451 -/
                            0
                          ( #
                  -       ,5 5         ! 4 1
              6
              !           !                !                      !           !! !!                                        !!                0
                          !!                !         !          !    !       !            !       !                    ! !
                      ! !!                 !          !       !       !       !            !                   !   !    !!!       !
                  ! ! !!               !        !   !     !      !    !                !       !!       !      !       ! !        !          6
              !       !        !       !        !   !        !    !   !                        !    !                  ! ! !                 0
                          $*
                  -       ,5 5         ! 4 1
              6
                  1 )!         1       7 )!         1     3           # !         7 )!                         $35               3
                  3 )!             )!       3                 # !         3                    83 $8               3    3        3
                                                                                                               -
              # !              3       3   )!    #3       1 # ! $35                        1               7       7   3     "
                           -                                6                                          6
                                           $35          $8            83 # ! # 1                   3 # !           1         $8
                                                                                               0
                                                                                  $!

<removed-date>
                  1       #3   )!   83         83 # ! #         7        3   83   3   83 # !   3
              0                          .                           .
              "       7    7    3   3        7 #3   3     7 #        83 # ! )!        3   3
              # ! #3
<removed-apn>
                                                                $!

