   ABSTRACT
           In   certain  embodiments,      a transcritical  refrigeration system  provides
   refrigeration by circulating carbon dioxide (C0 2 ) refrigerant through the system. A
   flash tank of the transcritical refrigeration system is operable to supply the C02
 5 refrigerant, in liquid form, to a low temperature refrigeration case and a medium
   temperature refrigeration case.       A low temperature compressor is operable to
   compress the C02 refrigerant discharged from the low temperature refrigeration case.
   A medium temperature compressor, a parallel compressor, and an ejector are each
   operable to compress the C02 refrigerant discharged from the medium temperature
10 refrigeration  case, the CO 2 refrigerant       discharged from the low temperature
   compressor, and/or C02 flash gas discharged from the flash tank. A gas cooler is
   operable to cool the C02 refrigerant discharged from the medium temperature
   compressor and the parallel compressor.         A controller is operable to dynamically
   adjust a pressure set point for the flash tank.

                             115
           r - -     - - -   -   - -   - - -  -   - -
  I  U
     0                                                0i
            I             ji
            I    ii                                   (.)
            I    ii                                       I
            I     ii                                  <
            I    ii                                       I
      In gi
 IL                                  -                     - - -- - -
              -    -I                             -     -
I   E I                                                   IC
                CDI~                                      I
                       m                        0
                                             CD           I
                       ------- -- -- --

         FLASH TANK PRESSURE CONTROL FOR TRANSCRITICAL SYSTEM
                                       WITH EJECTOR(S)
   TECHNICAL FIELD
 5         This disclosure relates generally to an refrigeration system. More specifically,
   this disclosure relates to flash tank pressure control for a transcritical system with one
   or more ejectors.
   BACKGROUND
10         Refrigeration systems can be used to regulate the environment within an
   enclosed space.      Various types of refrigeration systems, such as residential and
   commercial, may be used to maintain cold temperatures within an enclosed space
   such as a refrigerated case. To maintain cold temperatures within refrigerated cases,
   refrigeration systems control the temperature and pressure of refrigerant as it moves
15 through the refrigeration system. When controlling the temperature and pressure of
   the refrigerant, refrigeration systems consume power.         It is generally desirable to
   operate refrigeration systems efficiently in order to avoid wasting power.
   SUMMARY OF THE DISCLOSURE
20         In   certain   embodiments,     a transcritical  refrigeration    system provides
   refrigeration by circulating carbon dioxide (C02) refrigerant through the system. A
   flash tank of the transcritical refrigeration system is operable to supply the C02
   refrigerant, in liquid form, to a low temperature refrigeration case and a medium
   temperature refrigeration case.       A low temperature compressor is operable to
25 compress the C02 refrigerant discharged from the low temperature refrigeration case.
   A medium temperature compressor, a parallel compressor, and an ejector are each
   operable to compress the C02 refrigerant discharged from the medium temperature
   refrigeration  case, the C02 refrigerant        discharged from the low temperature
   compressor, and/or C02 flash gas discharged from the flash tank. A gas cooler is
30 operable to cool the C02 refrigerant discharged from the medium temperature
   compressor and the parallel compressor.         A controller is operable to dynamically
   adjust a pressure set point for the flash tank.
           In certain embodiments, the controller dynamically adjusts the pressure set
   point for the flash tank based on a temperature at an outlet of the gas cooler. For
                                                 1

   example, in response to determining that the temperature at the outlet of the gas
   cooler has increased such that it exceeds a first temperature threshold, the controller
   adjusts the pressure set point for the flash tank in order to increase Ap, wherein Ap is
   the difference between the pressure of the flash tank and suction pressure of the
 5 medium temperature compressor. In response to determining that the temperature at
   the outlet of the gas cooler has decreased such that it is less than a second temperature
   threshold, the controller adjusts the pressure set point for the flash tank in order to
   decrease Ap.
           As another example, in response to determining that the temperature at the
10 outlet of the gas cooler is less than or equal to 30'C, the controller adjusts the pressure
   set point for the flash tank such that Ap is less than or equal to 8 bar. In certain
   embodiments, in response to determining that the temperature at the outlet of the gas
   cooler is less than or equal to 28'C, the controller adjusts the pressure set point for the
   flash tank such that Ap is less than 8 bar (e.g., the Ap may be 6 bar). As yet another
15 example, in response to determining that the temperature at the outlet of the gas
   cooler is greater than or equal to 32'C, the controller adjusts the pressure set point for
   the flash tank such that Ap is greater than or equal to 8 bar. In certain embodiments,
   in response to determining that the temperature at the outlet of the gas cooler is
   greater than or equal to 34'C, the controller adjusts the pressure set point for the flash
20 tank such that the Ap is greater than 8 bar (e.g., the Ap may be 10 bar).
           In certain embodiments the controller determines temperature at the outlet of
   the gas cooler based on a sensor that measures gas cooler outlet temperature.            In
   certain embodiments, the controller determines           gas cooler outlet temperature
   according to an approximation based at least in part on a measurement from an
25 ambient air temperature sensor located proximate to the gas cooler.
           In certain embodiments, the controller is further operable to determine one or
   more compression set points operable to cause a measured pressure of the flash tank
   to move toward the pressure set point for the flash tank. The controller then instructs
   each of the medium temperature compressor, the parallel compressor, and/or the
30 ejector to operate according to its respective compression set point.
           Also disclosed is a controller for a refrigeration system.         The controller
   comprises one or more processors and logic encoded in non-transitory computer
   readable memory. The logic, when executed by one or more processors, is operable
   to dynamically adjust a pressure set point for a flash tank based on ambient air
                                                2

   temperature and/or gas cooler outlet temperature.          As an example, the logic is
   operable to determine that the ambient air temperature and/or the gas cooler outlet
   temperature has increased such that it exceeds a temperature threshold and to adjust
   the pressure set point for the flash tank in order to increase Ap.        The Ap is the
 5 difference between the pressure of the flash tank and suction pressure of a compressor
   of the refrigeration system.     In certain embodiments the controller determines the
   ambient air temperature based on information from a sensor that measures the
   ambient air temperature proximate to the gas cooler. In certain embodiments the
   controller determines the gas cooler outlet temperature based on information from a
10 sensor at the outlet of the gas cooler.
           Also discloses is a method of operating a refrigeration system. The method
   comprises determining a temperature associated with an outlet of a gas cooler (such as
   an ambient temperature of outdoor air proximate to the gas cooler), performing a
   comparison that compares the temperature associated with the outlet of the gas cooler
15 to a temperature threshold, adjusting a pressure set point for a flash tank based on the
   comparison, and instructing one or more components of the refrigeration system to
   operate according to a configuration that causes a measured pressure of the flash tank
   to move toward the pressure set point for the flash tank.
           Certain embodiments may provide one or more technical advantages. Certain
20 embodiments may result in more efficient operation of refrigeration system.          For
   example, instead of keeping flash tank pressure constant all of the time, the pressure
   of the flash tank can be increased or decreased based on gas cooler outlet temperature
   in order to increase the efficiency of the ejector and/or reduce energy usage associated
   with parallel compression. Certain embodiments may include none, some, or all of
25 the above technical advantages.      One or more other technical advantages may be
   readily apparent to one skilled in the art from the figures, descriptions, and claims
   included herein.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
30         For a more complete understanding of the present disclosure, reference is now
   made to the following description, taken in conjunction with the accompanying
   drawings, in which:
           FIGURE 1 is a block diagram illustrating an example refrigeration system
   according to certain embodiments of the present disclosure.
                                                3

           FIGURES 2-4 are graphs illustrating examples of efficiency characteristics for
   a refrigeration system under various temperature and pressure conditions.
           FIGURE 5 is a flow chart illustrating a method of operation for a refrigeration
   system, according to certain embodiments of the present disclosure.
 5         FIGURE 6 illustrates an example of a controller of a refrigeration system,
   according to certain embodiments.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
           In general, a refrigeration system cools a refrigeration load using cool liquid
10 refrigerant circulated from a flash tank to the refrigeration load. As an example, the
   refrigeration load may include one or more temperature-controlled cases, such as low
   temperature (LT) and medium temperature (MT) grocery store cases for storing
   frozen food and fresh food (e.g., fruits, vegetables, eggs, milk, beverages, etc.),
   respectively.   Cooling the refrigeration load causes the refrigerant to expand and to
15 increase in temperature.       The refrigeration system compresses and cools the
   refrigerant discharged from the refrigeration load so that cool liquid refrigerant can be
   recirculated through the refrigeration system to keep the refrigeration load cool.
           To compress the refrigerant, the refrigeration system includes one or more
   compressors.     Examples of compressors include one or more LT compressors
20 configured to compress refrigerant from the LT case and an MT compressor
   configured to compress refrigerant from the MT case.         The compressors may also
   include one or more parallel compressors and one or more ejector(s). Generally, a
   parallel compressor operates "in parallel" to another compressor (such as an MT
   compressor) of the refrigeration system, thereby reducing the amount of compression
25 that the other compressor needs to apply.         Similarly, an ejector can act as a
   compressor to reduce the amount of compression that another compressor needs to
   apply.
           Inclusion of one or more parallel compressor(s) and/or one or more ejector(s)
   may be associated with certain energy efficiency benefits.         As further discussed
30 below, the efficiency of the parallel compressor and the ejector(s) depends on the
   flash tank pressure and the gas cooler outlet temperature. Accordingly, embodiments
   of the present disclosure allow for dynamically adjusting the set point for the flash
   tank pressure based on the gas cooler outlet temperature.            This may improve
                                               4

   efficiency as compared to conventional refrigeration systems that maintain the flash
   tank pressure at a constant set point, such as 520 psi.
            Embodiments of the present disclosure and its advantages are best understood
   by referring to FIGURES 1 through 6 of the drawings, like numerals being used for
 5 like and corresponding parts of the various drawings.
            FIGURE 1 illustrates an example of a transcritical refrigeration system. A
   transcritical refrigeration system may include a controller 100, a flash tank 105, one
   or more evaporator valves 110 corresponding to one or more evaporators 115, at least
   two compressors 120, one or more ejectors 125, a gas cooler 130, and an expansion
10 valve 135.      As depicted in FIGURE 1, the refrigeration system includes two
   evaporator valves (1 10a and 1 Ob) corresponding to two evaporators (115 a and 11 5b),
   and three compressors 120a-c.       Each component may be installed in any suitable
   location, such as a mechanical room (e.g., FIGURE 1 depicts flash tank 105,
   compressors 120, ejector 125, and expansion valve 135 in a mechanical room), in a
15 consumer-accessible location (e.g., FIGURE 1 depicts evaporator valves 110 and
   evaporators 115 on a sales floor), or outdoors (e.g., FIGURE 1 depicts gas cooler 130
   on a rooftop).
            First valve 110a may be configured to discharge low-temperature liquid
   refrigerant to first evaporator 115a (also referred to herein as low-temperature ("LT")
20 case 115 a). Second valve 1 Ob may be configured to discharge medium-temperature
   liquid refrigerant to evaporator 115b (also referred to herein as medium-temperature
   ("MT") case 115b). In certain embodiments, LT case 115a and MT case 115b may be
   installed in a grocery store and may be used to store frozen food and refrigerated fresh
   food, respectively. In some embodiments, first evaporator 115 a may be configured to
25 discharge warm refrigerant vapor to first compressor 120a (also referred to herein as
   an LT compressor 120a) and second evaporator 1 15b may be configured to discharge
   warm refrigerant vapor to a second compressor 120b (also referred to herein as an MT
   compressor 120b). In such a refrigeration system, first compressor 120a provides a
   first stage of compression to the warmed refrigerant from the LT case 115a and
30 discharges    the compressed      refrigerant   to second   compressor   120b,   parallel
   compressor 120c, and/or ejector 125 (e.g., depending on the configuration of
   refrigerant lines and valves within the system).
            For example, in certain embodiments, the compressed refrigerant discharged
   from first compressor 120a joins the warm refrigerant discharged from MT case 11 5b
                                                 5

   and flows to second compressor 120b, parallel compressor 120c, and/or ejector 125
   for compression.     The inlet to second compressor 120b may be referred to as MT
   suction.    The refrigerant discharged from second compressor 120b and/or parallel
   compressor 120c may then be discharged to gas cooler 130 for cooling. Gas cooler
 5 130 discharges mixed-state refrigerant (e.g., refrigerant in both vapor and liquid
   form). During normal operation, the refrigerant discharged from gas cooler 130 may
   continue to ejector 125. During bypass operation, the refrigerant discharged from gas
   cooler 130 may continue to an open expansion valve 135. The mixed-state refrigerant
   then flows from ejector 125 or expansion valve 135 through flash tank 105 where it is
10 separated into vapor (i.e., flash gas) and liquid refrigerant.
            The liquid refrigerant flows from the flash tank 105 to one or more of the
   cases 115 through evaporator valves 110 and the cycle begins again.            The vapor
   refrigerant flows from the flash tank 105 to one or more of MT compressor 120b
   and/or parallel compressor 120c. In certain embodiments, the pressure of flash tank
15 105 may be adjusted depending on the gas cooler outlet temperature to ensure
   efficient operation of parallel compressor 120c and/or ejector 125.        The gas cooler
   outlet temperature may refer to the temperature of refrigerant at an outlet of gas cooler
   130. In certain conditions, the gas cooler outlet temperature may be determined from
   a sensor at the outlet of gas cooler 130 (such as a sensor that measures outdoor air
20 temperature, for example, if gas cooler 130 is located on the rooftop of a building or
   other outdoor location).
            In some embodiments, refrigeration system 100 may be configured to circulate
   natural refrigerant such as a hydrocarbon (HC) like carbon dioxide (C0 2 ), propane
   (C 3H8 ), isobutane (C 4H1 io), water (H 20), and air.      Natural refrigerants may be
25 associated with various environmentally conscious benefits (e.g., they do not
   contribute to ozone depletion and/or global warming effects). As an example, certain
   embodiments can be implemented in a transcritical refrigeration system (i.e., a
   refrigeration system in which the heat rejection process occurs above the critical
   point) comprising a gas cooler and circulating the natural refrigerant C02. Table 1
30 below illustrates an example of the transcritical point for an embodiment of a C02
   transcritical refrigeration system. Table 1 also shows the vapor percentage in flash
   tank 105 vs. the outlet temperature of gas cooler 130.             In general, the vapor
   percentage increases as the temperature increases. As the amount of vapor produced
   in the flash tank 105 increases, it becomes more important to have higher efficiency
                                                 6

   parallel compression. At lower temperatures with less vapor, parallel compression
   efficiency becomes less important, so the system can be configured for higher ejector
   efficiency.
    Gas Cooler Outlet Temperature                 State            Approximate Flash
                                                                      Tank Vapor %
                 25-C, 77-F                    Subcritical                  23%
                28-C, 82.5-F                   Subcritical                  28%
                 30-C, 86-F                    Subcritical                  30%
             31.10-C, 87.98-F              Transcritical Point              33%
                 34-C, 93-F                   Supercritical                 38%
                 35-C, 95-F                   Supercritical                 41%
                 36-C, 97-F                   Supercritical                 44%
               37.7-C, 100-F                  Supercritical                 50%
 5
                                            Table 1
           The refrigeration system may include at least one controller 100 in some
   embodiments.      Controller 100 may be configured to direct the operations of the
   refrigeration system. Controller 100 may be communicably coupled to one or more
10 components of the refrigeration system (e.g., flash tank 105, evaporator valves 110,
   evaporators 115, compressors 120, ejectors 125, gas cooler 130, and/or expansion
   valve 135). As such, controller 100 may be configured to control the operations of
   one or more components of refrigeration system 100. For example, controller 100
   may be configured to turn parallel compressor 120c on and off. As another example,
15 controller 100 may be configured to open and close valve(s) 110 and/or 135.           As
   another example, controller 100 may be configured to adjust a set point for the
   pressure of flash tank 105.
           In some embodiments, controller 100 may further be configured to receive
   information about the refrigeration system from one or more sensors. As an example,
20 controller 100 may receive information about the ambient temperature of the
   environment (e.g., outdoor temperature) from one or more sensors.            As another
   example, controller 100 may receive information about the system load from sensors
   associated with compressors 120. As yet another example, controller 100 may receive
   information about the temperature and/or pressure of the refrigerant from sensors
25 positioned at any suitable point(s) in the refrigeration system (e.g., temperature at the
                                               7

   outlet of gas cooler 130, suction pressure of MT compressor 120b, pressure of flash
   tank 105, etc.).
           As described above, controller 100 may be configured to provide instructions
   to one or more components of the refrigeration system.         Controller 100 may be
 5 configured to provide instructions via any appropriate communications link (e.g.,
   wired or wireless) or analog control signal. As depicted in FIGURE 1, controller 100
   is configured to communicate with components of the refrigeration system.           For
   example, in response to receiving an instruction from controller 100, the refrigeration
   system may adjust a set point associated with the pressure of flash tank 105.        An
10 example of a method that may be performed by the refrigeration system based, for
   example, based on instructions from controller 100 is further described below with
   respect to FIGURE 5. An example of controller 100 is further described below with
   respect to FIGURE 6. In some embodiments, controller 100 includes or is a computer
   system.
15         As   discussed above, the     refrigeration system includes     one or more
   compressors 120.     The refrigeration system may include any suitable number of
   compressors 120.    Compressors 120 may vary by design and/or by capacity.          For
   example, some compressor designs may be more energy efficient than other
   compressor designs and some compressors 120 may have modular capacity (i.e.,
20 capability to vary capacity). As described above, compressor 120a may be an LT
   compressor that is configured to compress refrigerant discharged from an LT case
   (e.g., LT case 115a) and compressor 120b may be an MT compressor that is
   configured to compress refrigerant discharged from an MT case (e.g., MT case 115b).
           In some embodiments, refrigeration system includes a parallel compressor
25 120c.    Parallel compressor 120c may be configured to provide supplemental
   compression to refrigerant circulating through the refrigeration system. For example,
   parallel compressor 120c may be operable to compress flash gas discharged from
   flash tank 105.     Refrigeration system may include one or more ejectors 125
   configured to provide supplemental compression to refrigerant discharged from MT
30 case 115b and/or LT compressor 120a. In general, ejector 125 may be smaller than
   parallel compressor 120c and may be powered by pressure (whereas parallel
   compressor 120c is typically powered by electricity).      Ejector 125 may discharge
   refrigerant directly to flash tank 105 (whereas parallel compressor 120c may
   discharge refrigerant to gas cooler 130).
                                               8

           While ejector 125 is running, it compresses some of the load from MT suction
   (e.g., 420 psi) to flash tank 105 (e.g., 520 psi). The parallel compressor(s) 120c work
   to keep the pressure of flash tank 105 at a set point, such as 520 psi, by compressing
   vapor from flash tank 105 to MT discharge.         As further discussed below, the flash
 5 tank pressure set point is determined dynamically based on the temperature at the
   outlet of gas cooler 130 or the ambient temperature (e.g., outdoor air temperature).
   The flash tank pressure can be controlled by controlling compressor set points.
           As depicted in FIGURE 1, the refrigeration system may include one or more
   gas coolers 130 in some embodiments.           Gas cooler 130 is configured to receive
10 compressed refrigerant vapor (e.g., from MT and parallel compressors 120b, 120c)
   and cool the received refrigerant.     In some embodiments, gas cooler 130 is a heat
   exchanger comprising cooler tubes configured to circulate the received refrigerant and
   coils through which ambient air is forced. Inside gas cooler 130, the coils may absorb
   heat from the refrigerant, thereby providing cooling to the refrigerant.          In some
15 embodiments, the refrigeration system includes an expansion valve 135.              During
   normal operation, the refrigerant discharged from gas cooler 130 may continue to
   ejector 125 for compression and discharge to flash tank 105.               During bypass
   operation, the refrigerant discharged from gas cooler 130 may continue to an open
   expansion valve 135. Expansion valve 135 may be configured to reduce the pressure
20 of refrigerant.   In some embodiments, this reduction in pressure causes some of the
   refrigerant to vaporize. As a result, mixed-state refrigerant (e.g., refrigerant vapor and
   liquid refrigerant) is discharged from expansion valve 135.       In some embodiments,
   this mixed-state refrigerant is discharged to flash tank 105.
           Refrigeration system 100 may include a flash tank 105 in some embodiments.
25 Flash tank 105 may be configured to receive mixed-state refrigerant and separate the
   received refrigerant into flash gas and liquid refrigerant.      Typically, the flash gas
   collects near the top of flash tank 105 and the liquid refrigerant is collected in the
   bottom of flash tank 105.     In some embodiments, the liquid refrigerant flows from
   flash tank 105 and provides cooling to one or more evaporates (cases) 115 and the
30 flash gas flows to one or more compressors (e.g., MT compressor 120b and/or parallel
   compressor 120c) for compression.
           The refrigeration system may include one or more evaporators 115 in some
   embodiments.       As depicted in FIGURE 1, the refrigeration system includes two
   evaporators 115 (LT case 115a and MT case 115b). As described above, LT case
                                                9

   115a may be configured to receive liquid refrigerant of a first temperature and MT
   case 115b may be configured to receive liquid refrigerant of a second temperature,
   wherein the first temperature (e.g., -29'C) is lower in temperature than the second
   temperature (e.g., -7'C). As an example, an LT case 115a may be a freezer in a
 5 grocery store and an MT case 1 15b may be a cooler in a grocery store.
            In some embodiments, the liquid refrigerant leaves flash tank 105 through a
   first line to the LT case and a second line to the MT case. When the refrigerant leaves
   flash tank 105, the temperature and pressure in the first line may be the same as the
   temperature and pressure in the second line (e.g., 4'C and 38 bar). Before reaching
10 cases 115, the liquid refrigerant may be directed through one or more evaporator
   valves 110 (e.g., 1 Oa and 1 Ob of FIGURE 1). In some embodiments, each valve
   may be controlled (e.g., by controller 100) to adjust the temperature and pressure of
   the liquid refrigerant.   For example, valve 11 0a may be configured to discharge the
   liquid refrigerant at -29'C and 14 bar to LT case 115a and valve 110b may be
15 configured to discharge the liquid refrigerant at -7'C and 30 bar to MT case 115b. In
   some embodiments, each evaporator 115 is associated with a particular valve 110 and
   the valve 110 controls the temperature and pressure of the liquid refrigerant that
   reaches that evaporator 115.
            This disclosure recognizes that a refrigeration system, such as that depicted in
20 FIGURE 1, may comprise one or more other components.               As an example, the
   refrigeration system may comprise one or more desuperheaters in some embodiments.
   One or ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the refrigeration system may
   include other components not mentioned herein.
            FIGURES 2-4 are graphs illustrating examples of efficiency characteristics for
25 a for a C02 transcritical refrigeration system under various temperature and pressure
   conditions.     For example, FIGURE 2 illustrates coefficient of performance (COP)
   values for a multi-ejector system. The graph shows the COP values for various gas
   cooler outlet temperatures (e.g., 28'C, 30'C, 32'C, 34'C, and 36'C) and various
   pressures, Ap, wherein Ap refers to a difference between the pressure of flash tank
30 105 and the suction pressure of MT compressor 120b. As depicted in FIGURE 2, the
   COP value generally increases/improves such that the system is more efficient as
   temperature decreases. As an example, at a Ap of approximately 6 bar, the COP value
   at 28'C and is greater than 3.4, which is more efficient than the COP value at 36'C
   because at 36'C the COP value is less than 2.2. In general, the pressure that yields
                                                10

   the most efficient COP value depends on the temperature. For example, as depicted
   in FIGURE 2, when the temperature is 28 0 C, the system is most efficient at a Ap of
   approximately 6 bar. By contrast, the Ap of approximately 6 bar is not the most
   efficient value when the temperature is 36'C (e.g., the COP value is less than 2.2).
 5 When the temperature is 36'C, a better COP value is realized at a Ap of
   approximately 10 bar (e.g., the COP value is greater than 2.4).
           FIGURE 3 is similar to FIGURE 2 except that it depicts a parallel system.
   Similar to the multi-ejector system of FIGURE 2, efficiency of the parallel system
   improves as temperature decreases and the pressure (Ap) that yields the most efficient
10 COP value depends on the temperature.
           Based on the foregoing, it can be determined that ejector 125 has a higher
   efficiency when the pressure difference between flash tank and MT suction is lower
   (lower lift pressure). In contrast, parallel compressor 120c has higher efficiency when
   the pressure difference between flash tank and MT suction is higher. In addition, the
15 ambient temperature and the gas cooler outlet temperature have a direct relationship
   to the amount of CO2 vapor after high pressure expansion valve 135. Depending on
   the ambient temperature and gas cooler outlet temperature, the increase of the
   transcritical booster system Coefficient of Performance (COP) can be achieved by
   either increasing parallel compression efficiency or increasing ejector efficiency.
20         Thus, instead of keeping the flash tank pressure constant all the time, the
   pressure of flash tank 105 can be increased or decreased based on gas cooler outlet
   temperature to increase the efficiency of the ejector and reduce energy usage of
   parallel compression. At certain gas cooler outlet temperatures, parallel compressor
   efficiency may be considered more important than ejector efficiency for maintaining
25 the overall efficiency of the refrigeration system.      As examples, for certain CO2
   transcritical  systems, parallel compressor efficiency      may be considered more
   important than ejector efficiency when the gas cooler outlet temperature is greater
   than 3 10 C, greater than 32'C, or greater than 33'C depending on the embodiment. At
   these temperatures, the pressure difference between the flash tank and MT suction can
30 be increased to improve the efficiency of the parallel compressor.
           At other temperatures, ejector efficiency becomes more important than parallel
   compressor efficiency for maintaining the overall efficiency of the refrigeration
   system. As examples, for certain CO2 transcritical systems, ejector efficiency may be
   considered more important than parallel compressor efficiency when the gas cooler
                                                 11

   outlet temperature is less than 33'C, less than 32'C, or less than 31'C depending on
   the embodiment. At these temperatures, the pressure difference between the flash tank
   and MT suction can be decreased to improve the efficiency of the ejector(s).
           FIGURE 4 illustrates examples of pressure difference between MT suction
 5 and flash tank that may be used in certain transcritical C02 refrigeration systems in
   order to maximize the COP value at various temperatures depending on whether
   parallel compressor efficiency or ejector efficiency is considered more important for a
   given temperature. In FIGURE 4, the Ap value may be set to 6 bar (87 psi) for a gas
   cooler outlet temperature of 28'C to 30'C ( 82.5'F to 86'F), and parallel compression
10 suction pressure may be set to 507 psi in controls. The Ap value may be set to 8 bar
   (116 psi) for gas cooler outlet temperature of 30'C to 33'C ( 82.5'F to 91.5'F), and
   parallel compression suction pressure may be set to 536 psi in controls. The Ap value
   may be set to 10 bar (145 psi) for gas cooler outlet temperature above 33'C (91.5'F),
   and parallel compression suction pressure may be set to 565 psi in controls.
15         FIGURE 5 illustrates an example of a method of operating a refrigeration
   system, such as the refrigeration system described with respect to FIGURE 1, in
   accordance with certain embodiments.       In some embodiments, the method may be
   performed by controller 100, for example, using a processor 630 to execute logic
   stored in memory 620 of controller 100 (as further discussed below with respect to
20 FIGURE 6). For purposes of example and explanation, the steps of FIGURE 5 are
   discussed with reference to the temperature thresholds and Ap set points illustrated in
   FIGURE 4. However, other embodiments may use different thresholds and set points.
   Moreover, the thresholds and set points may be determined in any suitable manner. In
   certain embodiments, the thresholds and set points may be pre-configured by a
25 manufacturer or technician.     In other embodiments, the refrigeration system may
   determine     the   thresholds  and    set  points  dynamically,    for  example,   by
   testing/monitoring the system efficiency in various configurations and saving the
   configuration that is the most efficient.
           When the method begins, the refrigeration system may be operating according
30 to an initial Ap value, such as 8 bar.        At step 502, the method determines a
   temperature associated with an outlet of a gas cooler 130. As discussed above, gas
   cooler 130 is operable to cool refrigerant received from one or more compressors
   (e.g., MT compressor 120b and parallel compressor             120c) and discharge the
   refrigerant to a flash tank 105 via one or more ejectors 125. In certain embodiments,
                                               12

   the method determines the gas cooler outlet temperature based on information from a
   sensor configured to measure the temperature at the outlet of the gas cooler 130. In
   an alternate embodiment, the method may assume that the gas cooler 130 cools the
   refrigerant to an outdoor ambient temperature and may use an ambient air temperature
 5 measured by an ambient air temperature sensor or received from a weather report
   (e.g., via the Internet) as the gas cooler outlet temperature.
            After determining the gas cooler outlet temperature, the method performs a
   comparison that compares the gas cooler outlet temperature to a temperature
   threshold. Steps 504 and 506 each illustrate examples of comparing the gas cooler
10 outlet temperature to a threshold. As an example, at step 504, the method determines
   whether the gas cooler outlet temperature is greater than or equal to a first temperature
   threshold.     Using the values in FIGURE 4 as an example, the first temperature
   threshold may be 34'C. If the gas cooler outlet temperature determined at step 502 is
   less than 34'C (i.e., the gas cooler outlet temperature is not greater than or equal to
15 the first temperature threshold), the method proceeds to step 506. At step 506, the
   method determines whether the as cooler outlet temperature is less than or equal to a
   second temperature threshold. Using the values in FIGURE 4 as an example, the
   second temperature threshold may be 28'C. If the gas cooler outlet temperature
   determined at step 502 is greater than 28'C (i.e., the gas cooler outlet temperature is
20 not less than or equal to the second temperature threshold), the method may return to
   step 502 to determine an updated gas cooler outlet temperature and begin the method
   again. In certain embodiments, the method may wait for the occurrence of a pre
   determined event, such as expiration of a timer, before resuming step 502.
            If at step 504 the gas cooler outlet temperature is greater than or equal to the
25 first temperature threshold, the method proceeds to step 508 to adjust a pressure set
   point for the flash tank 105 to a value that causes Ap to increase. Using the values of
   FIGURE 4 as an example, if the method determines that the gas cooler outlet
   temperature determined in step 502 is greater than or equal to 34'C, the method
   adjusts the pressure set point for the flash tank 105 to a value that causes Ap to
30 increase from 8 bar (i.e., the example initial value discussed above) to 10 bar.
            If at step 506 the gas cooler outlet temperature is less than or equal to the
   second temperature threshold, the method proceeds to step 510 to adjust the pressure
   set point for the flash tank 105 to a value that causes Ap to decrease. Using the values
   of FIGURE 4 as an example, if the method determines that the gas cooler outlet
                                                 13

   temperature determined in step 502 is less than or equal to 28'C, the method adjusts
   the pressure set point for the flash tank 105 to a value that causes Ap to decrease from
   8 bar (i.e., the example initial value discussed above) to 6 bar.
            After adjusting the pressure set point for the flash tank 105 according to either
 5 step 508 or 510 (depending on whether the gas cooler outlet temperature is greater
   than or equal to the first threshold, or less than or equal to the second threshold), the
   method proceeds to step 512. At step 512, the instructs one or more components of
   the refrigeration system to operate according to a configuration that causes a
   measured pressure of the flash tank 105 to move toward the pressure set point
10 determined at step 508 or 510. As an example, the method may instruct one of the
   compressors to operate according to a compression set point that causes the measured
   pressure of the flash tank 105 to move toward the pressure set point for the flash tank.
   In certain embodiments, the measured pressure of the flash tank 105 may be
   determined based on information from a sensor (such as a sensor that measures the
15 pressure of flash tank 105). The method then ends.
            FIGURE 6 illustrates an example controller 100 for a refrigeration system,
   such as controller 100 of FIGURE 1, according to certain embodiments of the present
   disclosure. Controller 100 may comprise one or more interfaces 610, memory 620,
   and one or more processors 630. Interface 610 receives input (e.g., sensor data or
20 system data), sends output (e.g., instructions), processes the input and/or output,
   and/or performs other suitable operation.        Interface 610 may comprise hardware
   and/or software.    As an example, interface 610 receives information from sensors,
   such   as information about the ambient temperature             of refrigeration system,
   information about the load of the refrigeration system, information about the
25 temperature of the refrigerant at any suitable point(s) in the refrigeration system,
   and/or information about the pressure of the refrigerant at any suitable point(s) in the
   refrigeration system (e.g., temperature at the outlet of gas cooler 130, suction pressure
   of MT compressor 120b, pressure of flash tank 105, etc.).            Controller 100 may
   compare the received information to thresholds to determine whether to adjust
30 operation of the refrigeration system. As an example, controller 100 may compare the
   gas cooler outlet temperature to a threshold and increase or decrease a pressure set
   point associated with flash tank 105 based on the whether the gas cooler outlet
   temperature exceeds the threshold.
                                                14

           In some embodiments, if controller 100 determines to adjust operation of the
   refrigeration system, controller 100 sends instructions to the component(s) of the
   refrigeration system that controller 100 has determined to adjust.        For example,
   controller 100 may send an instruction to compressors 120 to apply compression that
 5 causes the flash tank pressure to increase.
           Processor 630 may include any suitable combination of hardware and software
   implemented in one or more modules to execute instructions and manipulate data to
   perform some or all of the described functions of controller 100. In some
   embodiments, processor 430 may include, for example, one or more computers, one
10 or more central processing units (CPUs), one or more microprocessors, one or more
   applications, one or more application specific integrated circuits (ASICs), one or more
   field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs), and/or other logic.
           Memory (or memory unit) 620 stores information. As an example, memory
   620 may store one or more gas cooler outlet temperature thresholds and one or more
15 corresponding pressure set points for flash tank 105. Controller 100 may use these
   stored gas cooler outlet temperature thresholds to determine whether to adjust the
   pressure set points in response to determining that the gas cooler outlet temperature
   has changed (e.g., based on input from a sensor). As another example, memory 620
   may store logic for performing the method discussed above with respect to FIGURE
20 5.   Memory 620 may comprise one or more non-transitory, tangible, computer
   readable, and/or computer-executable storage media.         Examples of memory 620
   include computer memory (for example, Random Access Memory (RAM) or Read
   Only Memory (ROM)), mass storage media (for example, a hard disk), removable
   storage media (for example, a Compact Disk (CD) or a Digital Video Disk (DVD)),
25 database and/or network storage (for example, a server), and/or other computer
   readable medium.
           Modifications,   additions, or omissions may be made to the systems,
   apparatuses, and methods described herein without departing from the scope of the
   disclosure.   The components of the systems and apparatuses may be integrated or
30 separated.    Moreover, the operations of the systems and apparatuses may be
   performed by more, fewer, or other components.          For example, the refrigeration
   system may include any suitable number of compressors, condensers, condenser fans,
   evaporators, valves, sensors, controllers, and so on, as performance demands dictate.
   One skilled in the art will also understand that the refrigeration system can include
                                               15

   other components that are not illustrated but are typically included with refrigeration
   systems. Additionally, operations of the systems and apparatuses may be performed
   using any suitable logic comprising software, hardware, and/or other logic. As used
   in this document, "each" refers to each member of a set or each member of a subset of
 5 a set.
            Modifications, additions, or omissions may be made to the methods described
   herein without departing from the scope of the disclosure. The methods may include
   more, fewer, or other steps. Additionally, steps may be performed in any suitable
   order.
10          Although this disclosure has been described in terms of certain embodiments,
   alterations and permutations of the embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in
   the art. Accordingly, the above description of the embodiments does not constrain
   this disclosure.   Other changes, substitutions, and alterations are possible without
   departing from the spirit and scope of this disclosure.
15          Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
   requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
   "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or
   group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of
   integers or steps.
20          The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be
   taken as, an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the referenced prior art
   forms part of the common general knowledge in Australia.
                                               16

   CLAIMS
            1.      A transcritical refrigeration system operable to circulate carbon dioxide
   (C0 2 ) refrigerant through the transcritical refrigeration system in order to provide
   refrigeration, the transcritical refrigeration system comprising:
 5          a flash tank operable to supply the C02 refrigerant, in liquid form, to a low
   temperature refrigeration case and a medium temperature refrigeration case;
            a low temperature compressor operable to compress the C02 refrigerant
   discharged from the low temperature refrigeration case;
            a medium temperature compressor, a parallel compressor, and an ejector each
10 operable to compress the C02 refrigerant discharged from the medium temperature
   refrigeration   case, the C02 refrigerant         discharged from the low temperature
   compressor, and/or C02 flash gas discharged from the flash tank;
            a gas cooler operable to cool the C02 refrigerant discharged from the medium
   temperature compressor and the parallel compressor; and
15          a controller operable to dynamically adjust a pressure set point for the flash
   tank.
            2.      The transcritical    refrigeration system of Claim 1, wherein the
   controller dynamically adjusts the pressure set point for the flash tank based on a
20 temperature at an outlet of the gas cooler.
            3.      The transcritical refrigeration system of Claim 2, wherein in response
   to determining that the temperature at the outlet of the gas cooler has increased such
   that it exceeds a temperature threshold, the controller adjusts the pressure set point for
25 the flash tank in order to increase Ap, wherein Ap is the difference between the
   pressure of the flash tank and suction pressure of the medium temperature
   compressor.
            4.      The transcritical refrigeration system of Claim 2, wherein in response
30 to determining that the temperature at the outlet of the gas cooler is less than or equal
   to 30'C, the controller adjusts the pressure set point for the flash tank such that Ap is
   less than or equal to 8 bar, wherein Ap is the difference between the pressure of the
   flash tank and suction pressure of the medium temperature compressor.
                                                  17

           5.      The transcritical refrigeration system of Claim 2, wherein in response
   to determining that the temperature at the outlet of the gas cooler is greater than or
   equal to 32'C, the controller adjusts the pressure set point for the flash tank such that
   Ap is greater than or equal to 8 bar, wherein Ap is the difference between the pressure
 5 of the flash tank and suction pressure of the medium temperature compressor.
           6.      The transcritical refrigeration system of Claim 1, the controller further
   operable to:
           determine one or more compression set points operable to cause a measured
10 pressure of the flash tank to move toward the pressure set point for the flash tank; and
           instruct each of the medium temperature compressor, the parallel compressor,
   and/or the ejector to operate according to its respective compression set point.
           7.      A controller for a refrigeration system, the controller comprising one
15 or more processors and logic encoded in non-transitory computer readable memory,
   the logic, when executed by one or more processors, operable to:
           dynamically adjust a pressure set point for a flash tank based on a temperature
   value, the temperature value determined from an ambient air temperature and/or a gas
   cooler outlet temperature.
20
            8.     The controller of Claim 7, wherein the logic is operable to:
           determine that the temperature value has increased such that it exceeds a
   temperature threshold; and
           adjust the pressure set point for the flash tank in order to increase Ap, wherein
25 Ap is the difference between the pressure of the flash tank and suction pressure of a
   compressor of the refrigeration system.
           9.      The controller of Claim 8, wherein the logic is operable to
           determine one or more compression set points operable to cause a measured
30 pressure of the flash tank to move toward the pressure set point for the flash tank; and
           instruct the compressor to operate according to the compression set point.
                                                18

            10.     The controller of Claim 7, wherein the refrigeration system that the
   controller is operable to control comprises a transcritical refrigeration system that
   circulates carbon dioxide (C0 2 ) refrigerant.
 5          11.     The controller of Claim 10, wherein the refrigeration system that the
   controller is operable to control comprises:
            the flash tank operable to supply the C02 refrigerant, in liquid form, to a low
   temperature refrigeration case and a medium temperature refrigeration case;
            a low temperature compressor operable to compress the C02 refrigerant
10 discharged from the low temperature refrigeration case;
            a medium temperature compressor, a parallel compressor, and an ejector each
   operable to compress the C02 refrigerant discharged from the medium temperature
   refrigeration   case, the C02 refrigerant      discharged from the low temperature
   compressor, and/or C02 flash gas discharged from the flash tank; and
15          a gas cooler operable to cool the C02 refrigerant discharged from the medium
   temperature compressor and the parallel compressor;
            wherein the controller determines the temperature value based on information
   from a sensor that measures temperature at the outlet of the gas cooler.
20          12.     The controller of Claim 11, wherein:
            in response to determining that the temperature at the outlet of the gas cooler
   is less than or equal to 28'C, the controller adjusts the pressure set point for the flash
   tank such that Ap is less than 8 bar, wherein Ap is the difference between the pressure
   of the flash tank and suction pressure of the medium temperature compressor; and
25          in response to determining that the temperature at the outlet of the gas cooler
   is greater than or equal to 34'C, the controller adjusts the pressure set point for the
   flash tank such that the Ap is greater than 8 bar.
            13.     A method of operating a refrigeration system, the method comprising:
30          determining a temperature associated with an outlet of a gas cooler that is
   operable to cool refrigerant received from one or more compressors and discharge the
   refrigerant to a flash tank via one or more ejectors;
            performing a comparison that compares the temperature associated with the
   outlet of the gas cooler to a temperature threshold;
                                                19

           adjusting a pressure set point for the flash tank based on the comparison; and
           instructing one or more components of the refrigeration system to operate
   according to a configuration that causes a measured pressure of the flash tank to move
   toward the pressure set point for the flash tank.
 5
            14.    The method of Claim 13, wherein in response to determining that the
   temperature associated with the outlet of the gas cooler has increased such that it
   exceeds the temperature threshold, adjusting the pressure set point for the flash tank in
   order to increase Ap, wherein Ap is the difference between the pressure of the flash
10 tank and suction pressure of one of the compressors.
            15.    The method of Claim 13, wherein the method operates a transcritical
   refrigeration system that circulates C02 refrigerant and, in response to determining
   that the temperature associated with the outlet of the gas cooler is less than or equal to
15 30'C, adjusting the pressure set point for the flash tank such that Ap is less than or
   equal to 8 bar, wherein Ap is the difference between the pressure of the flash tank and
   suction pressure of one of the compressors.
            16.    The method of Claim 13, wherein the method operates a transcritical
20 refrigeration system that circulates C02 refrigerant and, in response to determining
   that the temperature associated with the outlet of the gas cooler is greater than or
   equal to 30'C, adjusting the pressure set point for the flash tank such that Ap is
   greater than or equal to 8 bar, wherein Ap is the difference between the pressure of the
   flash tank and suction pressure of one of the compressors.
25
            17.    The method of Claim 13, wherein instructing the one or more
   components of the refrigeration system comprises instructing one of the compressors
   to operate according to a compression set point that causes the measured pressure of
   the flash tank to move toward the pressure set point for the flash tank.
30
                                                20

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
