Abstract
The present invention discloses a system for stock volatility prediction by
using   Long   Short-Term      Memory      (LSTM)   neural    networks with
sentimental indicators. By using these networks, the invention achieves
a good performance at long term sequence. Besides, the employed
sentimental indicators which we extracted and calculated from the
online forum, improved the predict accuracy as well. The main steps
include: get the posts from the online forum by using crawler; build a
sentimental analysis model through the human labeled posts; calculated
sentimental indicators by the predicted sentimental tendency and
generate sentimental time series; build a predict model by using LSTM to
predict the volatility of the stock by giving a specific stock number.
                                       1

DESCRIPTION
TITLE
      A New System for Stock Volatility Prediction by Using Long
Short-Term Memory with Sentimental Indicators
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
      The present invention generally relates to a stock volatility predict
system with sentimental indicators, especially based on a method by
using Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) neural networks.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
People in the past consider predicting stock as impossible. Early research
of stock had begun in 1900s, when Bachelier first applied statistical
methods to stock data, and found that the mathematical expectation of
stock fluctuations to be zero. People in the earlier did a lot of works to
predict the volatility, however, the result was not ideal. In 1970, Fama
proposed The Efficient Market Hypothesis (EMH), what's more, he
claimed that the price of the future stock is totally unpredictable because
existing  share prices    always   incorporate   and reflect all relevant
information.
However, since the investors of stock cannot be rational and knowing
complete information about the stock market, they may do some
                                      1

impulsive judgment. The Simon's bounded rationality and Kahneman's
prospect theory illustrates that investors are rather susceptible to herd
instinct, and can easily make impulsive judgments. This can always make
the market inefficient. We solve the problem of how to receive more
useful information from the market by collecting data from some forums
because the high development of social networking applications. For
example, Bollen et al. did research on the correlations between Tweets
and Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA), using tracking tool Opinion
Finder (OF)     and    Google-Profile   of Mood States    (GPOMS).      By
considering such information, the prediction accuracy was raised by 13%.
Si et al. proposed a method to leverage topic sentiment from Twitter to
help predict the stock volatility, while O'Conner have established a
strong relation between a brand's popularity and its tweets with its stock
price.
The data we collect is different from those researches above. Instead of
using data from social media, we use data directly from investors who
posted comments in the sub-forum of a particular stock. We can gather
very valid pubic opinions using this data. The data is pre-processed and
manually labeled, it will be open to public for research purposes. We
develop two sentiment classification models using Word2Vec and logistic
regression. Both models are combined with Long Short-Term Memory
(LSTM) neural networks to capture temporal information of stock prices
                                      2

as well as sentimental information. As a result, we found that the model
with sentimental information outperforms the one without. This research
shows a nontrivial fact that using posted comments will improve model
performance in financial time-series prediction. The related references
are:
[1] E. Fama, Efficient market hypothesis: A review of theory and
empirical work, Journal of Finance 25 (1970) 383-417.
[2] M. Rzepczynski, Beyond greed and fear: Understanding behavioral
finance and the psychology of investing, OUP Catalogue (78) (2007)
99-101.
[3] X. Zhang, H. Fuehres, P. A. Gloor, X. Zhang, H. Fuehres, Predicting
stock market indicators through twitter "I hope it is not as bad as I fear",
Socialand Behavioral Sciences 26 (26) (2011) 55-62.
[4] D. Hirshleifer, T. Shumway, Good day sunshine: Stock returns and
the weather, Journal of Finance 58 (3) (2003) 1009-1032.
[5] J. Bollen, H. Mao, X. Zeng, Twitter mood predicts the stock market,
Journal of Computational Science 2 (1) (2010) 1-8.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
The purpose of this invention is to use the sentiment model to predict the
volatility of stock more accurate. The present invention disclosed a
                                     3

method of using LSTM neural networks to do sentiment classification
and then build stock prediction model so that investors can make
investing strategies.
We gain the data, the posts, from East Money Forum, which is the largest
and most influential Chinese stock forum. It has one sub-forum for each
individual stock. We select 11 stocks, which contain at least 500 posts in
their sub-forums. After crawling them from the Internet, we need to
delete some useless information in one sentence, like commas or
semicolons. Since each Chinese word general contains about 2-4 Chinese
characters, we need to segregate the posts for further analysis. We use a
python named Jieba for segregation. It constructs a directed acyclic graph
for all possible word combinations, and finds the most possible one based
on word frequency with dynamic programming.
We do sentiment classification by using LSTM neural networks. To train
the LSTM model, we use sentiment polarity model and word2vec model.
The polarity model assigns each word a sentimental weight. The sum of
weighted sentiment scores of all terms determines the sentiment polarity
of the post. If the sum is greater than 0, the word will be considered as
positive, and the sum less than 0 will be considered as negative. The
sentiment score of a given post is calculated by:
                     h, (x) = f (  x    = f(wTx); 1 i N
                                      4

where   x)   is the feature value of a given term, N is the number of all the
terms in the post. The function f(-)             is a sigmoid function, which
compresses the result to between 0 and 1:
                                             1
                                      f±z)=
This is sentiment polarity model is simply a logistic regression model. By
tuning the weights, the model can map all texts into either positive (1) or
negative (-1). We use Gradient Descent algorithm.
The words vectors model is used to find a vector space in which words
share semantic similarity also have a shorter distance comparing to other
pair of words. They are the representations of natural language, which
can make the model capacity become bigger. Word2vec maps words into
a semantic space.
Comparing to the classical RNN models like Elman network or Jordan
network, LSTM introduces a new structure called memory cell. It
contains a forget gate so that the cell can forget its previous states if
needed. The state of the forget gate is computed as:
                             f,  = u(W[-[h, 1,x, ]+b,)
Where ht1 is the hidden state of the previous state.
The state of the input gate it is computed as:
                              i, = a(W -[h, 1,x, ]+b)
                                         5

The state of the output gate ot is computed as:
                             o, = -(W -(h,_1, x, ]+bo)
Compute a new candidate value          ,:
                           e, =tanh(WJ -[h,_,xx,]+b )
Update new cell state C,:
                               C, =      C'1 i, x
Put the cell state through tanh, and multiply it by the output gate:
                                 h, = o, xtanh(C,)
 W,,   ,W,W are weight parameters for the forget gate, input gate, cell
state, and output gate.
By combining the sentiment weight from sentiment polarity model and
the word weight from word2vec model, we can use LSTM to input a
sentence with a vector representation and output the prediction of
sentiment.
DESCRIPTION OF DRAWING
      The following drawings are only for the purpose of description
and explanation but not for limitation, where in:
Figure 1:
                                          6

This figure is an overall explanation of the process, which begins with
Data gather and process, ends with the final doable strategy which being
calculated from the LSTM sentimental model and the stock prediction
model.
Figure2:
This is the detailed version of the first step, which is Data-Preprocessing,
more specifically data collecting. In this process, Crawler is being used to
receive all the Stock data according to the Stock number the user inputted.
When the Crawler detects a Stock number, it initiates URL series that are
ready to be collected from. The Crawler then analyses the DNS according
to the series and extracts the host's IP. Afterwards, the Crawler uses
Regular Expression to store the data obtained from the website, and takes
out the URL from the series. Lastly the Crawler self-checks the remaining
URL in the series, if it is not empty, then the Crawler repeats the Data
collecting process again.
Figure 3:
According to this Figure, Sentimental classification is being used to
calculate the data collected from the websites, therefore it processes the
words and converts to vectors for further calculation using "Word2vec
Model". Then the calculation is based of LSTM, which stands for Long
Short-Term Memory. It first uses artificial labelled data to train the
                                       7

LSTM model, so it becomes more accurate, and then it inputs unlabeled
data to predict the sentiments behind the data. When it is done, it
calculates the change in the stock market.
Figure 4:
This step builds the stock prediction model, which combines the
sentiment-time series and the Stock-time series. The two series are being
matched together and history is being used to train the LSTM model. The
model is given certain K days to calculate the best model possible, which
we used a third day to the fifth day range. After the calculation is finished,
we find the best model that predicts most accurately within all the
possibilities and uses it for further investment strategy.
Figure 5:
The last step is making strategies. We use the predict results on the
history data to learn a best k and get its best predict model. Then, we use
a time series with length of k to predict the next day's volatility. If the
stock is predicted to fall next day, the investor will trade all the stock
he/she holds for cash, otherwise he/she would choose to hold the stock.
Figure 6:
Stock price and investors net worth (Per Share) for Stock 600198. The net
worth is computed by assuming that the investor holds 1 share of stock at
the beginning of the trades with our predictions.
                                        8

Figure 7:
This figure shows the comparison results with/without sentimental
indicators. We can see the accuracy varies as the k changes, so we can get
a best k to build the model. Besides, the sentimental indicators can help to
improve the predict accuracy.
Figure 8:
The results are consistent with different stocks at most time, which
indicate the importance of the sentimental indicators.
DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
Step 1: DATA COLLECTION
 1. We provide a crawler for collecting comments from the East Money
Forum, the largest stock forum in China. The crawler could visit the URL,
online forum. It then copies the comments posted on the forum and
creates ".xslx" format under directory. At last, the crawler pastes the
comments on the Excel table with the labels of title, comment, and date.
2. We need to download a software on the computer, DaZhiHui365[3].
We manually collect the prices information of each stocks on this
application. The information will be collected as a .txt format, and this
form will transform to .xlsx format finally.
Step2: SENTIMENT CLASSIFICATION
                                      9

In order to classify the emotion of each comments, we preprocess the data
that collects from the forum. We remove the useless materials in the
comments, such as punctuatuation marks and separate the comment into
small sections. Before the training of the sentiment classification model,
we need artificially labelled some comments we have collected. And then,
we use Word2vec model to train the LSTM sentiment classification
model to sign the positive or negative marks on every words. At last, we
could sent the unlabelled comments into this trained model and calculate
the accurcy of this model. There are will form a trained model under
directory.
Step3: STOCK VOLATILITY PREDICTION MODEL
The emotional model labels other comments with positive and negative
signs .K is an parameter, which indicate the length between time
windows, and determined by iterative experimental process. Naturally,
we considered K with a specific region which between 3 and 30, but we
use this data to predict k+1 day. After we finish the process of crawling,
it form 2 series: sentiment time series and stock time series. They match
up and combine together to form generate volatility, bullishness and
number-of-comments time series from raw data files. We will input k
then find the most suitable k value by evaluating accuracy, select the
highest accuracy data, then save it.
                                      10

Step4: MAKE INVESTING STRATEGY
K data and best model will express an probability of prediction, which
means if the value of p is below 0.5 the investor should sell it and if the p
value is greater than 0.5, the investor should buy it rather than other
choices.
                                     11

CLAIM
     1. A method for risk prediction and medication guidance of
        osteoporosis based on exome analysis and panel design, which
        selected 47 genes after a systematic search, and tools including
        BWA, Picard-tools, GATK, ANNOVAR, and a Perl program
        we designed will be used.
    2. A method for risk prediction and medication guidance as claim
        1, which can be used for achieving the tailored therapy.
                                   1

               <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
1
    Figure 1

               <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
2
    Figure 2

               <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
3
    Figure 3

                          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
4
    Figure 5   Figure 4

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
