HEAT TRANSFER TUBE, BOILER, AND STEAM TURBINE DEVICE
ABSTRACT
A furnace wall tube (35) which is provided in a boiler, an interior of the furnace wall tube having
a supercritical pressure and a heating medium flowing through the interior, includes: a groove
portion (36) that is formed on an inner circumferential surface and has a spiral shape toward a
tube axis direction; and a rib portion (37) that is formed to protrude inward in a radial direction
by the groove portion (36) of the spiral shape, wherein, in a cross section taken along the tube
axis direction, when a width [mm] of the groove portion (36) in the tube axis direction is defined
as Wg, a height [mm] of the rib portion (37) in the radial direction is defined as Hr and a tube
outer diameter [mm] is defined as D, the width Wg [mm] of the groove portion 36, the height Hr
[mm] of the rib portion (37), and the tube outer diameter D [mm] satisfy "Wg/(Hr -D) > 0.40".

                                                   1
HEAT TRANSFER TUBE, BOILER, AND STEAM TURBINE DEVICE
Field
[0001] This is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No. 2014370991, the
entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
[0002] The present invention relates to a heat transfer tube through which a heating medium
such as water flows therein, a boiler and a steam turbine device.
Background
[0003] Conventionally, as a heat transfer tube through which a heating medium such as water
flows, a tube with an inner surface fin equipped with a fin for forming multi-screws on an inner
surface has been known (for example, see Patent Literature 1). The interior of the tube with the
inner surface fin has a subcritical pressure. In some cases, water flowing through the interior of
the tube with the inner surface fin having the subcritical pressure is subjected to film boiling by
heating the heat transfer tube. When the film boiling occurs, since the heat transfer decreases by
a steam film formed on the inner surface of the tube, the temperature of the tube increases.
Therefore, in the tube with the inner surface fin, the fin has a predetermined shape so as to
suppress the temperature rise of the tube due to the film boiling. Specifically, the tube with the
inner surface fin is configured so that a lead of the fin is 0.9 times a square root of an average
tube inner diameter at a maximum level or a radial height of the fin is 0.04 times the average
tube inner diameter at a minimum level.
[0004] Furthermore, as a heat transfer tube used in a once-through type steam generator of a
supercritical pressure variable pressure operation type, a water-wall tube (rifled tube) of a water
cooled tube wall group has been known (for example, see Patent Literature 2). The rifled tube is
provided with a spiral projection on its inner surface. The once-through type steam generator
performs a subcritical pressure operation in a partial load operation, and by providing the spiral
projection on the inner surface of the rifled tube, the tube wall temperature of the rifled tube is
kept below an allowable temperature at the time of subcritical pressure operation.

                                                      2
Citation List
Patent Literature
[0005] Patent Literature 1: Japanese Laid-open Patent Publication No. 5-118507
[0006] Patent Literature 2: Japanese Laid-open Patent Publication No. 6-137501
Summary of Invention
Technical Problem
[0007] In this way, when the interior of the heat transfer tube such as the tube with the inner
surface fin described in Patent Literature 1 is in a state of subcritical pressure, in order to
suppress the temperature rise of the tube due to the film boiling, the fin has a predetermined
shape. Similarly, in order to keep the tube wall temperature of the rifled tube below an allowable
temperature at the time of subcritical pressure operation, the rifled tube described in Patent
Literature 2 is provided with a spiral projection on the inner surface.
[0008] Meanwhile, in some cases, the heat transfer tube flows water as a heating medium, in a
state in which its interior has the supercritical pressure. Water flowing at the supercritical
pressure is not boiled even if it is heated (does not enter a gas-liquid two-phase state), and flows
through the interior of the heat transfer tube in a single-phase state. Here, when water flowing
through the interior of the heat transfer tube having the supercritical pressure has a low mass
velocity (a low flow velocity) or a high heat flux is applied to water at the time of heating the
heat transfer tube, a heat transfer degradation phenomenon occurs in which a heat transfer
coefficient decreases in some cases. When the heat transfer degradation phenomenon occurs,
since the heat transfer from the heat transfer tube to water decreases, the temperature of the heat
transfer tube is liable to increase.
[0009] Moreover, in the heat transfer tube having the supercritical internal pressure, when the
heat transfer coefficient is low, since the heat transfer coefficient from the heat transfer tube to
water decreases, the temperature of the heat transfer tube is liable to rise. Here, in Patent
Literature 1, a fin has a shape based on the premise that the interior of the heat transfer tube is in
a state of subcritical pressure, that is, that the interior of the heat transfer tube is in the gas-liquid

                                                     3
two-phase state. For this reason, since the shape of the fin is not based on the premise that the
interior of the heat transfer tube is in the single-phase state, it is difficult to suppress the
temperature rise of the heat transfer tube even by applying the invention of Patent Literature 1.
[0010] Thus, an object of the present invention is to provide a heat transfer tube, a boiler and a
steam turbine device capable of suppressing an increase in the tube temperature, by suppressing
an occurrence of heat transfer degradation phenomenon during supercritical pressure.
[0011] Furthermore, another object of the present invention is to provide a heat transfer tube, a
boiler and a steam turbine device capable of suppressing an increase in the tube temperature, by
improving the heat transfer coefficient, while suppressing an occurrence of heat transfer
degradation phenomenon during supercritical pressure.
Solution to Problem
[0012] According to an aspect of the present invention, a heat transfer tube which is provided in
a boiler, an interior of the heat transfer tube having a supercritical pressure and a heating medium
flowing through the interior includes: a groove portion that is formed on an inner circumferential
surface and has a spiral shape toward a tube axis direction; and a rib portion that is formed to
protrude inward in a radial direction by the groove portion of the spiral shape. In a cross section
taken along the tube axis direction, when a width [mm] of the groove portion in the tube axis
direction is defined as Wg, a height [mm] of the rib portion in the radial direction is defined as
Hr, and a tube outer diameter [mm] is defined as D, the width Wg [mm] of the groove portion,
the height Hr [mm] of the rib portion, and the tube outer diameter D [mm] satisfy "Wg/(Hr -D) >
0.40".
[0013] According to this configuration, when the interior becomes a supercritical pressure, by
satisfying Wg/(Hr -D) > 0.40, it is possible to suppress the occurrence of the heat transfer
degradation phenomenon. For this reason, since the occurrence of the heat transfer degradation
phenomenon can be suppressed during supercritical pressure, it is possible to suppress an
increase in tube temperature.
[0014] Advantageously, in the heat transfer tube, when the boiler is operated at a rated output, an
average mass velocity of the heating medium flowing through the interior of the heat transfer
tube forming the furnace wall becomes 1000 to 2000 kg/m 2s.

                                                    4
[0015] According to this configuration, even when the heating medium such as water flowing
through the interior of the heat transfer tube has a low mass velocity, or high heat flux is applied
to the heating medium, it is possible to suppress an occurrence of the heat transfer degradation
phenomenon.
[0016] Advantageously, in the heat transfer tube, when an interval [mm] of the rib portion in the
tube axis direction is defined as Pr, the number of the rib portion in a cross section which is
taken perpendicularly to the tube axis direction is defined as Nr, and a wetted perimeter length
[mm] of the cross section which is taken perpendicularly to the tube axis direction is defined as
L, the height Hr [mm] of the rib portion, the interval Pr [mm] of the rib portion, the number of
the rib portion Nr and the wetted perimeter length L [mm] satisfy "(Pr -Nr)/Hr > 1.25L + 55".
[0017] According to this configuration, when the interior becomes the supercritical pressure, by
satisfying (Pr - Nr)/Hr > 1.25L + 55, it is possible to suppress the occurrence of the heat transfer
degradation phenomenon. Thus, since the occurrence of the heat transfer degradation
phenomenon can be suppressed during supercritical pressure, it is possible to suppress an
increase in tube temperature.
[0018] Advantageously, in the heat transfer tube, when the boiler is operated at a rated output,
the average mass velocity of the heating medium flowing through the interior of the heat transfer
tube forming the furnace wall is equal to or less than 1500 kg/m 2 s.
[0019] According to this configuration, even when the mass velocity of the heating medium that
flows through the interior of the heat transfer tube is lowered, it is possible to suppress the
occurrence of the heat transfer degradation phenomenon.
[0020] Advantageously, in the heat transfer tube, the tube outer diameter D [mm] is "25 mm < D
< 40 mm".
[0021] According to this configuration, if the tube outer diameter is 25 mm to 40 mm, the effect
is more remarkable.
[0022] According to another aspect of the present invention, a heat transfer tube which is
provided in a boiler, an interior of the heat transfer tube having a supercritical pressure and a
heating medium flowing through the interior includes: a groove portion that is formed on an

                                                   5
inner circumferential surface and has a spiral shape toward a tube axis direction; and a rib
portion that is formed to protrude inward in a radial direction by the groove portion of the spiral
shape. When a height [mm] of the rib portion in the radial direction is defined as Hr, an interval
[mm] of the rib portion in the tube axis direction is defined as Pr, the number of the rib portion in
the cross section which is taken perpendicularly to the tube axis direction is defined as Nr, and a
wetted perimeter length [mm] of the cross section which is taken perpendicularly to the tube axis
direction is defined as L, the height Hr [mm] of the rib portion, the interval Pr [mm] of the rib
portion, the number Nr of the rib portion and the wetted perimeter length L [mm] satisfy "(Pr
Nr)/Hr > 1.25L + 55".
[0023] According to this configuration, when the interior becomes a supercritical pressure, by
satisfying (Pr - Nr)/Hr > 1.25L + 55, it is possible to suppress the occurrence of the heat transfer
degradation phenomenon. For this reason, since the occurrence of the heat transfer degradation
phenomenon can be suppressed during supercritical pressure, it is possible to suppress an
increase in tube temperature.
[0024] Advantageously, in the heat transfer tube, when the boiler is operated at a rated output, an
average mass velocity of the heating medium flowing through the interior of the heat transfer
tube forming the furnace wall is equal to or less than 1500 kg/m 2 s.
[0025] According to this configuration, even when the mass velocity of the heating medium that
flows through the interior of the heat transfer tube is lowered, it is possible to suppress the
occurrence of the heat transfer degradation phenomenon.
[0026] Advantageously, in the heat transfer tube, in a cross section taken along the tube axis
direction, when a width [mm] of the groove portion in the tube axis direction is defined as Wg,
and a tube outer diameter [mm] is defined as D, the width Wg [mm] of the groove portion, the
height Hr [mm] of the rib portion, and the tube outer diameter D [mm] satisfy "Wg/(Hr - D) >
0.40".
[0027] According to this configuration, when the interior becomes a supercritical pressure, by
satisfying Wg/(Hr - D) > 0.40, it is possible to suppress the occurrence of the heat transfer
degradation phenomenon. For this reason, since the occurrence of the heat transfer degradation

                                                    6
phenomenon can be suppressed during supercritical pressure, it is possible to suppress an
increase in tube temperature.
[0028] Advantageously, in the heat transfer tube, when the boiler is operated at a rated output, an
average mass velocity of the heating medium flowing through the interior of the heat transfer
tube forming the furnace wall becomes 1000 to 2000 kg/m 2s.
[0029] According to this configuration, even if the heating medium such as water flowing
through the interior of the heat transfer tube has a low mass velocity, or a high heat flux is
applied to the heating medium, it is possible to suppress the occurrence of the heat transfer
degradation phenomenon.
[0030] Advantageously, in the heat transfer tube, the tube outer diameter D [mm] is "25 mm < D
< 40 mm".
[0031] According to this configuration, if the tube outer diameter is 25 mm to 40 mm, the effect
is more remarkable.
[0032] According to still another aspect of the present invention, a heat transfer tube which is
provided in a boiler, an interior of the heat transfer tube having a supercritical pressure and a
heating medium flowing through the interior includes: a groove portion that is formed on an
inner circumferential surface and has a spiral shape toward a tube axis direction; and a rib
portion that is formed to protrude inward in a radial direction by the groove portion of the spiral
shape. When a height [mm] of the rib portion in the radial direction is defined as Hr, an interval
[mm] of the rib portion in the tube axis direction is defined as Pr, a width [mm] of the rib portion
in a circumferential direction of the inner circumferential surface is defined as Wr, the number of
the rib portion in the cross section which is taken perpendicularly to the tube axis direction is
defined as Nr, a wetted perimeter length [mm] of the cross section which is taken
perpendicularly to the tube axis direction is defined as L, a width [mm] of the groove portion in
the tube axis direction of the cross section which is taken along the tube axis direction is defined
as Wg, and a tube outer diameter [mm] is defined as D, the width Wg [mm] of the groove
portion, the height Hr [mm] of the rib portion, and the tube outer diameter D [mm] satisfy
"Wg/(Hr - D) > 0.40", and the height Hr [mm] of the rib portion, the interval Pr [mm] of the rib

                                                    7
portion, the width Wr [mm] of the rib portion, the number Nr of the rib portion and the wetted
perimeter length L [mm] satisfy "(Pr - Nr)/(Hr - Wr) > 0.40L + 9.0".
[0033] According to this configuration, when the interior becomes a supercritical pressure, it is
possible to improve the heat transfer coefficient, while suppressing the occurrence of the heat
transfer degradation phenomenon. For this reason, by improving the heat transfer coefficient
while suppressing the occurrence of the heat transfer degradation phenomenon during
supercritical pressure, it is possible to suppress an increase in tube temperature.
[0034] Advantageously, in the heat transfer tube, when the boiler is operated at a rated output, an
average mass velocity of the heating medium flowing through the interior of the heat transfer
tube forming the furnace wall becomes 1000 to 2000 kg/m 2s.
[0035] According to this configuration, even when the heating medium such as water flowing
through the interior of the heat transfer tube has a low mass velocity, or a high heat flux is
applied to the heating medium, it is possible to improve the heat transfer coefficient, while
suppressing the occurrence of the heat transfer degradation phenomenon.
[0036] Advantageously, in the heat transfer tube, when the boiler is operated at the rated output,
the average mass velocity of the heating medium flowing through the interior of the heat transfer
tube forming the furnace wall is equal to or less than 1500 kg/m 2 s.
[0037] According to this configuration, even when the mass velocity of the heating medium
flowing through the interior of the heat transfer tube is lowered, it is possible to improve the heat
transfer coefficient, while suppressing the occurrence of the heat transfer degradation
phenomenon.
[0038] Advantageously, in the heat transfer tube, the tube outer diameter D [mm] is "25 mm < D
5 35 mm".
[0039] According to this configuration, if the tube outer diameter is 25 mm to 35 mm, the mass
flow velocity of the heating medium can be set to at least any one of the above-described range,
and the mass flow velocity of the heating medium can be set to the suitable mass flow velocity.
Here, in the case of applying the heat transfer tube to a boiler, the mass flow velocity of the
heating medium flowing through the interior is set to a predetermined mass flow velocity. In this

                                                    8
case, in regard to a defined mass flow velocity, when the tube outer diameter decreases, the mass
flow velocity increases, and meanwhile, when the tube outer diameter increases, the mass flow
velocity decreases. For this reason, in order to achieve the mass flow velocity suitable for the
shape of the heat transfer tube that satisfies the above-described formula, by setting the tube
outer diameter in the range of 25 mm to 35 mm, the defined mass flow velocity can be achieved,
and it is possible to optimize the performance of the heat transfer coefficient.
[0040] Advantageously, in the heat transfer tube, the height Hr [mm] of the rib portion, the
interval Pr [mm] of the rib portion, the width Wr [mm] of the rib portion, the number Nr of the
rib portion and the wetted perimeter length L [mm] satisfy "(Pr -Nr)/(Hr -Wr) < 0.40L + 80".
[0041] According to this configuration, in the formula of "(Pr -Nr)/(Hr - Wr) > 0.40L + 9.0",
when the formula of the left side extremely increases, an interval Pr of the rib portion widens, the
number Nr of the rib portion increases, a height Hr of the rib portion becomes zero, and a width
Wr of the rib portion in a circumferential direction becomes zero. Accordingly, it is not easy to
maintain the shape of the heat transfer tube. For this reason, by satisfying the formula "(Pr
Nr)/(Hr - Wr) < 0.40L + 80", it is possible to easily maintain the heat transfer tube in a suitable
shape.
[0042] According to still another aspect of the present invention, a boiler includes the heat
transfer tube according to any one of the aboves that is used as the furnace wall tube that forms a
furnace wall of the boiler operated at a supercritical pressure, when operated at a rated output.
[0043] According to this configuration, the heat transfer tube can be applied as a furnace wall
tube that forms a furnace wall of the boiler. In addition, such a furnace wall tube may also be
referred to as a rifled tube.
[0044] According to still another aspect of the present invention, a boiler which heats the heating
medium flowing through the interior of the heat transfer tube, by heating the heat transfer tube
according to any one of the above by radiation of flame or high-temperature gas.
[0045] According to this configuration, it is possible to suppress an occurrence of heat transfer
degradation phenomenon of the heat transfer tube during supercritical pressure, or to improve
heat transfer coefficient, while suppressing the occurrence of the heat transfer degradation

                                                   9
phenomenon of the heat transfer tube. For this reason, it is possible to suitably maintain the heat
transfer from the heat transfer tube to the water as a heating medium, and it is possible to stably
generate steam from water. In addition, for example, the high-temperature gas may be a
combustion gas that is generated by combusting the fuel, and may be a flue gas discharged from
a device such as a gas turbine. In other words, as a boiler using a heat transfer tube in which the
interior becomes a supercritical pressure, for example, a supercritical pressure variable pressure
operation boiler, a supercritical pressure constant pressure operation boiler or the like may be
applied which heats the heat transfer tube by radiation of flame or combustion gas. In this case,
the heat transfer tube is configured as furnace wall of a furnace provided in the boiler, by
arranging a plurality of the heat transfer tubes in the radial direction. Furthermore, as another
boiler that uses the heat transfer tube in which the interior becomes a supercritical pressure, for
example, an exhausted heat recovery boiler which heats the heat transfer tube by the flue gas
may be applied. In this case, the heat transfer tube is configured as the plurality of heat transfer
tube groups arranged in the radial direction, and is housed in a container through which the flue
gas flows. In this way, the heat transfer tube may be applied to any boiler, as long as the interior
of a boiler becomes a supercritical pressure.
[0046] According to still another aspect of the present invention, a steam turbine device
includes: the boiler according to any one of the above; and a steam turbine that is operated by
steam generated by heating of water as the heating medium which flows through the interior of
the heat transfer tube provided in the boiler.
[0047] According to this configuration, it is possible to suppress the occurrence of the heat
transfer degradation phenomenon of the heat transfer tube during supercritical pressure, or to
improve the heat transfer coefficient, while suppressing the occurrence of the heat transfer
degradation phenomenon of the heat transfer tube. For this reason, it is possible to suitably
maintain the heat transfer from the heat transfer tube to the water, and the steam can be stably
generated. For this reason, since it is possible to stably supply the steam to the steam turbine, it
is also possible to stably operate the steam turbine.
Brief Description of Drawings
[0048] FIG. 1 is a schematic diagram illustrating a thermal power plant according to the first
embodiment.

                                                  10
[0049] FIG. 2 is a cross-sectional view of a furnace wall tube when taken along a tube axis
direction of the furnace wall tube.
[0050] FIG. 3 is a cross-sectional view of the furnace wall tube when taken by a plane
perpendicular to the tube axis direction of the furnace wall tube.
[0051] FIG. 4 is a graph of an example of a tube wall surface temperature of the furnace wall
which varies depending on enthalpy.
[0052] FIG. 5 is a graph of an example of the tube wall surface temperature of the furnace wall
which varies depending on enthalpy.
[0053] FIG. 6 is a partial cross-sectional view when taken along the tube axis direction
illustrating an example of a shape of a rib portion of the furnace wall tube.
[0054] FIG. 7 is a partial cross-sectional view when taken along the tube axis direction
illustrating an example of the shape of the rib portion of the furnace wall tube.
[0055] FIG. 8 is a partial cross-sectional view when taken along the tube axis direction
illustrating an example of the shape of the rib portion of the furnace wall tube.
[0056] FIG. 9 is a partial cross-sectional view when taken along a plane perpendicular to the
tube axis direction illustrating an example of the shape of the rib portion of the furnace wall tube.
[0057] FIG. 10 is an explanatory view illustrating a relation between a flow (back-step flow) at
the time of getting over a step and a heat transfer coefficient.
[0058] FIG. 11 is a graph of an example of the tube wall surface temperature of the furnace wall
which varies depending on the enthalpy.
[0059] FIG. 12 is a graph of an example of the tube wall surface temperature of the furnace wall
which varies depending on the enthalpy.

                                                   11
[0060] FIG. 13 is a graph illustrating a relation among a rib height Hr, a rib interval Pr, a rib
width Wr and a rib number Nr, which varies depending on a wetted perimeter length L, in regard
to a furnace wall tube of a second embodiment.
[0061] FIG. 14 is a graph illustrating a relation among a rib height Hr, a rib interval Pr, a rib
width Wr and a rib number Nr, which varies depending on a wetted perimeter length L in regard
to a furnace wall tube of a third embodiment.
[0062] FIG. 15 is a graph illustrating a relation among the rib height Hr, the rib interval Pr, the
rib width Wr and the rib number Nr, which varies depending on the wetted perimeter length L in
regard to a furnace wall tube of a fourth embodiment.
Description of Embodiments
[0063] Embodiments according to the present invention will be described below in detail based
the drawings. In addition, the present invention is not to be limited by the embodiments. In
addition, constituent elements in the embodiments include those capable of being easily replaced
by those skilled in the art, or those substantially identical thereto. Furthermore, the constituent
elements described below can be appropriately combined with each other, and when there is a
plurality of embodiments, it is also possible to combine the embodiments.
    [First Embodiment]
[0064] FIG. 1 is a schematic diagram illustrating a thermal power plant according to the first
embodiment. FIG. 2 is a cross-sectional view of a furnace wall tube when taken along the tube
axis direction of the furnace wall tube. FIG. 3 is a cross-sectional view of a furnace wall tube
when taken by a plane perpendicular to the tube axis direction of the furnace wall tube.
[0065] The thermal power plant of the first embodiment uses pulverized coal obtained by
crushing coal (such as bituminous, and subbituminous coal) as pulverized fuel (solid fuel). The
thermal power plant combusts the pulverized coal to generate steam by heat generated by
combustion, and drives a generator connected to the steam turbine to generate electric power, by
rotating the steam turbine by the generated steam.

                                                   12
[0066] As illustrated in FIG. 1, a thermal power plant 1 is equipped with a boiler 10, a steam
turbine 11, a condenser 12, a high-pressure feed water heater 13 and a low-pressure feed water
heater 14, a deaerator 15, a feed water pump 16, and a generator 17. The thermal power plant 1
has a form of a steam turbine plant equipped with the steam turbine 11.
[0067] The boiler 10 is used as a conventional boiler, and is a pulverized coal-fired boiler that is
capable of combusting the pulverized coal by a combustion burner 41 and recovering the heat
generated by the combustion by the use of a furnace wall tube 35 that functions as a heat transfer
tube. Furthermore, the boiler 10 is a supercritical pressure variable pressure operation boiler in
which the interior of the furnace wall tube 35 is set to a supercritical pressure or a subcritical
pressure. The boiler 10 is equipped with a furnace 21, a combustor 22, a steam separator 23, a
superheater 24, and a reheater 25.
[0068] The furnace 21 has furnace walls 31 that surround the four sides, and is formed in a
square tubular shape by the furnace walls 31 of the four sides. Moreover, in the furnace 21
having the square tubular shape, its extending longitudinal direction becomes a vertical direction
and becomes perpendicular to an installation surface of the boiler 10. The furnace wall 31 is
formed using a plurality of furnace wall tubes 35, and the plurality of furnace wall tubes 35 is
disposed side by side in the radial direction so as to form the wall surfaces of the furnace walls
31.
[0069] Each furnace wall tube 35 is formed in a cylindrical shape, and its tube axis direction
becomes the vertical direction and becomes perpendicular to the installation surface of the boiler
10. Further, the furnace wall tubes 35 are so-called rifled tubes in which spiral grooves are
formed therein. Water as a heat transfer medium flows through the interior of the furnace wall
tubes 35. The internal pressure of the furnace wall tubes 35 becomes a supercritical pressure or a
subcritical pressure, depending on the operation of the boiler 10. The furnace wall tubes 35 are
configured so that the lower side in the vertical direction is an inflow side, and the upper side in
the vertical direction is an outflow side. In this way, the furnace 21 of the boiler 10 of the
present embodiment is in a vertical tubular furnace type in which the furnace wall tubes 35 are
perpendicular. The details of the furnace wall tubes 35 will be described below.
[0070] The combustor 22 has a plurality of combustion burners 41 mounted on the furnace wall
31. Furthermore, in FIG. 1, only one combustion burner 41 is illustrated. The plurality of

                                                  13
combustion burners 41 combusts the pulverized coal as fuel to form flame in the furnace 21. At
this time, the plurality of combustion burners 41 combusts the pulverized coal so that the formed
flame becomes a turning flow. Moreover, the plurality of combustion burners 41 heats the
furnace wall tubes 35, by the high-temperature combustion gas generated by combusting the fuel
(high-temperature gas). In regard to the plurality of combustion burners 41, for example, the
plurality of combustion burners arranged at a predetermined interval along the circumference of
the furnace 21 are assumed to be a set, and a set of the combustion burners 41 is arranged in the
plural stages at a predetermined interval in the vertical direction (longitudinal direction of the
fumace 21).
[0071] The superheater 24 is provided inside the furnace 21 to superheat the steam supplied
from the furnace wall tubes 35 of the furnace 21 via the steam separator 23. The steam
superheated in the superheater 24 is supplied to the steam turbine 11 via a main steam pipe 46.
[0072] The reheater 25 is provided inside the furnace 21 to heat the steam used in (a high
pressure turbine 51 of) the steam turbine 11. The steam flowing into the reheater 25 from (the
high-pressure turbine 51 of) the steam turbine 11 via a low-temperature reheat steam pipe 47 is
heated by the reheater 25, and the heated steam flows into (an intermediate-pressure turbine 52
of) the steam turbine 11 from the reheater 25 again via a high-temperature reheat steam pipe 48.
[0073] The steam turbine 11 has the high-pressure turbine 51, the intermediate-pressure turbine
52, and a low-pressure turbine 53. These turbines 51, 52 and 53 are connected by a rotor 54 as a
rotating shaft in an integrally rotatable manner. The main steam pipe 46 is connected to the
inflow side of the high-pressure turbine 51, and the low-temperature reheat steam pipe 47 is
connected to the outflow side thereof. The high-pressure turbine 51 rotates by the steam
supplied from the main steam pipe 46, and discharges the steam after use from the low
temperature reheat steam pipe 47. The high-temperature reheat steam pipe 48 is connected to the
inlet side of the intermediate-pressure turbine 52, and the low-pressure turbine 53 is connected to
the outflow side thereof. The intermediate-pressure turbine 52 rotates by the steam supplied and
reheated from the high-temperature reheat steam pipe 48, and discharges the steam after use
toward the low-pressure turbine 53. The intermediate-pressure turbine 52 is connected to the
inflow side of the low-pressure turbine 53, and the condenser 12 is connected to the outflow side
thereof. The low-pressure turbine 53 rotates by the steam supplied from the intermediate
pressure turbine 52, and discharges the steam after use toward the condenser 12. The rotor 54 is

                                                   14
connected to the generator 17, and rotationally drives the generator 17 by rotation of the high
pressure turbine 51, the intermediate-pressure turbine 52 and the low-pressure turbine 53.
[0074] The condenser 12 flocculates the steam discharged from the low-pressure turbine 53 by a
cooling line 56 provided therein to return (condensate) the steam to water. The flocculated water
is supplied toward the low-pressure feed water heater 14 from the condenser 12. The low
pressure feed water heater 14 heats the water flocculated by the condenser 12 in a low-pressure
state. The heated water is supplied toward the deaerator 15 from the low-pressure feed water
heater 14. The deaerator 15 deaerates water supplied from the low-pressure feed water heater
14. The deaerated water is supplied toward the high-pressure feed water heater 13 from the
deaerator 15. The high-pressure feed water heater 13 heats the water deaerated by the deaerator
15 in a high-pressure state. The heated water is supplied toward the furnace wall tubes 35 of the
boiler 10 from the high-pressure feed water heater 13. In addition, between the deaerator 15 and
the high-pressure feed water heater 13, a feed water pump 16 is provided to supply water toward
the high-pressure feed water heater 13 from the deaerator 15.
[0075] The generator 17 is connected to the rotor 54 of the steam turbine 11, and generates
power by being rotationally driven by the rotor 54.
[0076] In addition, although it is not illustrated, the thermal power plant 1 is provided with a
denitrification device, an electrostatic precipitator, an induced blower, and a desulfurization
device, and a stack is provided at a downstream end portion.
[0077] In the thermal power plant 1 configured in this way, the water flowing through the
interior of the furnace wall tubes 35 of the boiler 10 is heated by the combustor 22 of the boiler
10. Water heated by the combustor 22 is converted into steam until it flows into the superheater
24 through the steam separator 23, and the steam passes through the superheater 24 and main
steam pipe 46 in this order and is supplied to the steam turbine 11. The steam supplied to the
steam turbine 11 passes through the high-pressure turbine 51, the low-temperature reheat steam
pipe 47, the reheater 25, the high-temperature reheat steam pipe 48, the intermediate-pressure
turbine 52, and low-pressure turbine 53 in this order, and flows into the condenser 12. At this
time, the steam turbine 11 rotates by the flowed steam, thereby rotationally driving the generator
17 via the rotor 54 to generate power in the generator 17. The steam flowed into the condenser
12 is returned to water by being flocculated by the cooling line 56. Water flocculated in the

                                                   15
condenser 12 passes through the low-pressure feed water heater 14, the deaerator 15, the feed
water pump 16, and the high-pressure feed water heater 13 in this order, and is supplied into the
furnace wall tubes 35 again. In this way, the boiler 10 of this embodiment becomes a once
through boiler.
[0078] Next, the furnace wall tube 35 will be described referring to FIGS. 2 and 3. As illustrated
in FIGS. 2 and 3, the furnace wall tube 35 is formed in a cylindrical shape around a center line I.
As described above, the furnace wall tube 35 is provided so that its tube axis direction becomes a
vertical direction, and the water flows therein toward the upper side from the lower side in the
vertical direction. Also, on an inner circumferential surface P1 of the furnace wall tube 35
configured as a rifled tube, a groove portion 36 having a spiral shape toward the tube axis
direction is formed. Further, in the furnace wall tube 35, a rib portion 37 projecting radially
inward is formed to have a spiral shape toward the tube axis direction by the spiral groove
portion 36. Here, a tube outer diameter of the furnace wall tube 35, that is, a diameter passing
through the center line I on the outer circumferential surface P3 is set to a tube outer diameter D.
In addition, the tube outer diameter D is a length of several ten millimeters order. Therefore, the
unit of the tube outer diameter D is set to [mm].
[0079] A plurality of groove portions 36 is formed in the circumferential direction of the inner
circumferential surface P1 at a predetermined interval, in a cross section illustrated in FIG. 3
which is taken along a plane perpendicular to the tube axis direction. In the first embodiment,
six groove portions 36 are formed in the cross section illustrated in FIG. 3. Thus, six rib portions
37 are also formed in the cross section illustrated in FIG. 3. In the first embodiment, although
the number of groove portions 36 formed on the furnace wall tube 35 is six, the plurality of
groove portions 36 may be formed, and the number is not particularly limited.
[0080] Furthermore, since each groove portion 36 is formed to sink to the outside in the radial
direction, the bottom surface (that is, the outside plane in the radial direction of the groove
portion 36) of each groove portion 36 is an inner circumferential surface P2 that is located
outside in the radial direction from the inner circumferential surface Pl. The inner
circumferential surface P2 has a circular shape around the center line I in the cross section
illustrated in FIG. 3. That is, the inner circumferential surface P1 and the inner circumferential
surface P2 are formed on a concentric circle, the inner circumferential surface P1 is located
inside in the radial direction, and the inner circumferential surface P2 is located outside in the

                                                    16
radial direction. Here, the diameter of the internal inner circumferential surface P1 of the
furnace wall tube 35 is set to a small inner diameter dl, and the diameter of the external inner
circumferential surface P2 of the furnace wall tube 35 is set to a large inner diameter d2.
[0081] Also, since each of the groove portions 36 is formed in a spiral shape toward the tube
axis direction, a plurality of groove portions 36 is formed in the tube axis direction of the inner
circumferential surface P1 at a predetermined interval, in the cross-section illustrated in FIG. 2
which is taken along the tube axis direction.
[0082] The plurality of rib portions 37 is formed in the circumferential direction of the inner
circumferential surface P1 at a predetermined interval, in the cross section illustrated in FIG. 3
which is taken along a plane perpendicular to the tube axis direction. In the first embodiment,
since the six groove portions 36 are formed, the six rib portions 37 are formed between the
groove portions 36. In the first embodiment, although the number of the rib portions 37 formed
on the furnace wall tube 35 is six, as in the groove portions 36, the plurality of rib portions 37
may be formed, and the number thereof is not particularly limited.
[0083] Furthermore, each of the rib portions 37 is formed to protrude inward in the radial
direction from the bottom surface (that is, the inner circumferential surface P2) of the respective
groove portions 36. Also, since the rib portions 37 are formed in a spiral shape toward the tube
axis direction, the plurality of rib portions 37 is formed on the inner circumferential surface P2 in
the tube axis direction at a predetermined interval, in the cross-section illustrated in FIG. 2 which
is taken along the tube axis direction.
[0084] Here, as illustrated in FIG. 2, the height in the radial direction of the rib portion 37 is set
to a rib height Hr. Specifically, the rib height Hr is a height from the inner circumferential
surface P2 to a location (that is, top) at which the rib portion 37 is located on the radially
innermost side. Furthermore, in the cross section illustrated in FIG. 3, the width in the
circumferential direction of the rib portion 37 is set to a rib width Wr. Specifically, the rib width
Wr is a width between a boundary between the inner circumferential surface P2 on one side in
the circumferential direction of the rib portion 37 and a boundary between the inner
circumferential surface P2 on the other side in the circumferential direction of the rib portion 37.
[0085] Also, in the cross section illustrated in FIG. 2, the width in the tube axis direction of the
groove portion 36 is set to a groove width Wg, and the interval of the rib portions 37 adjacent to

                                                    17
each other in the tube axis direction is set to a rib interval Pr. Specifically, the groove width Wg
is a width between a boundary between the inner circumferential surface P2 and the rib portion
37 on one side in the tube axis direction of the groove portion 36, and a boundary between the
inner circumferential surface P2 and the rib portion 37 on the other side in the tube axis direction
of the groove portion 36. Furthermore, the interval Pr is a distance between the centers in the
tube axis direction of the rib portions 37.
[0086] Furthermore, in the cross-section illustrated in FIG. 3, the contact length of the furnace
wall tube 35 with the water flowing through the interior is set to a wetted perimeter length L, and
the number of rib portions 37 is set to a rib number Nr. In FIG. 3, the wetted perimeter length L
is viewed like a circumference for convenience of illustration, but it is a total length of the wall
surface in contact with the fluid in a flow passage cross section as described above. At this time,
the tube outer diameter D is the length of several ten millimeters order. Therefore, the rib height
Hr becomes the height of the millimeter order. Similarly, the rib width Wr, the groove width
Wg, the rib interval Pr and the wetted perimeter length L also become the length of the
millimeter order. Therefore, the units of the rib height Hr, the rib width Wr, the groove width
Wg, the rib interval Pr and the wetted perimeter length L are [mm].
[0087] Next, the shape of the furnace wall tube 35 will be described. As described above, water
flows through the furnace wall tube 35 in a state in which its interior has a supercritical pressure.
In this case, in the furnace wall tube 35 heated by the combustor 22, in some cases, the heat
transfer degradation phenomenon in which the heat transfer coefficient is lowered occurs.
Therefore, the furnace wall tube 35 is formed in a shape in which the small inner diameter dl,
the large inner diameter d2, the tube outer diameter D, the groove width Wg, the rib width Wr,
the interval Pr, the rib number Nr, the rib height Hr, and the wetted perimeter length L satisfy the
relational formula described below.
[0088] In the furnace wall tube 35, the groove width Wg, the rib height Hr and the tube outer
diameter D satisfy the relational formula "Wg/(Hr - D) > 0.40". Here, in the case of "Wg/(Hr
D) = F", the relation "F > 0.40" is obtained. At this time, the rib height Hr is "Hr > 0", the rib
portion 37 is configured to protrude radially inward. Moreover, the rib height Hr, the rib interval
Pr, the rib number Nr and the wetted perimeter length L satisfy the relational formula of "(Pr
Nr)/Hr > I.25L + 55". Although the details will be described later, by setting the shape of the
furnace wall tube 35 to satisfy the above-described relational formula, it is possible to suppress

                                                   18
the occurrence of the heat transfer degradation phenomenon. At this time, if the tube outer
diameter D is "25 mm < D < 40 mm", more remarkable effect is achieved.
[0089] A lead angle of the rib portion 37 having the spiral shape becomes an angle that satisfies
the above-mentioned relational formula. In addition, the lead angle is an angle with respect to
the tube axis direction. If the lead angle of the rib portion 37 is 00, it becomes a direction along
the tube axis direction, and if the lead angle of the rib portion 37 is 90', it becomes a direction
along the circumferential direction. Here, the lead angle of the rib portion 37 is also
appropriately changed depending on the number of rib portions 37. In other words, if there are a
large number of rib portions 37, the lead angle of the rib portion 37 becomes a gentle angle
(approaches 00), and on the other hand, if there are a small number of rib portions 37, the lead
angle of the rib portion 37 becomes a steep angle (approaches 90').
[0090] Next, changes in tube wall surface temperature of the furnace wall which vary depending
on the enthalpy will be described referring to FIGS. 4 and 5. FIGS. 4 and 5 are graphs of an
example of the tube wall surface temperature of the furnace wall which varies depending on the
enthalpy. Here, in FIGS. 4 and 5, the horizontal axes are enthalpy given to the furnace wall 31
(furnace wall tube 35), and the vertical axes thereof are the tube wall surface temperature (the
temperature of the furnace wall tube 35).
[0091] As illustrated in FIGS. 4 and 5, Fl is a graph illustrating a change in tube wall surface
temperature at the time of "F = 0.35", and has a shape of the conventional furnace wall tube 35
that does not satisfy the relational formula of this embodiment. Furthermore, F2 is a graph
illustrating a change in tube wall surface temperature at the time of "F > 0.40", and has a shape
of the furnace wall tube 35 that satisfies the relational formula of this embodiment. In addition,
F3 is a graph illustrating a change in tube wall surface temperature when satisfying the relational
formula "(Pr - Nr)/Hr > 1.25L + 55", and has another shape of the furnace wall tube 35 that
satisfies the relational formula of this embodiment. In addition, Tw is a graph illustrating a
change in temperature (fluid temperature) of water that flows through the interior of the furnace
wall tube 35, and Tmax is a critical tube temperature that is acceptable for the furnace wall tube
35.
[0092] Here, in FIG. 4, the mass velocity of water flowing through the interior of the furnace
wall tube 35 becomes a low mass velocity at which flow stability of water inside the furnace wall

                                                  19
tube 35 can be secured, and the interior of the furnace wall tube 35 has a supercritical pressure.
Specifically, the low mass velocity differs depending on the sizes of the tube outer diameter D,
the small inner diameter dl and the large inner diameter d2, but for example, when operating the
boiler 10 at the rated output, the average mass velocity of the furnace wall tube 35 is in a rage of
1000 (kg/m2s) or more and 2000 (kg/m2s) or less. In addition, as long as the mass flow velocity
is achieved at which the flow stability of water inside the furnace wall tube 35 can be secured,
the mass flow velocity is not limited to the above-described range. In this embodiment, the rated
output has a rated electrical output in the generator of the thermal power plant 1.
[0093] As illustrated in FIG. 4, in the case of Fl, it is recognized that when the enthalpy
increases, that is, when the amount of heat given to the furnace wall tube 35 increases, the tube
wall surface temperature transiently increases. That is, in the case of Fl, it was checked that
when the amount of heat given to the furnace wall tube 35 increases, the heat transfer
degradation phenomenon occurs in which the heat transfer coefficient decreases during
supercritical pressure.
[0094] Meanwhile, as illustrated in FIG. 4, in the case of F2 and F3, it is recognized that when
the enthalpy increases, that is, when the amount of heat given to the furnace wall tube 35
increases, as compared to the case of Fl, the tube wall surface temperature gradually increases.
That is, in the case of F2 and F3, it was checked that even when the amount of heat given to the
furnace wall tube 35 increases, a decrease in heat transfer coefficient during supercritical
pressure is suppressed, and it is possible to suppress the occurrence of the heat transfer
degradation phenomenon in the furnace wall tube 35.
[0095] Next, in FIG. 5, the mass velocity of water flowing through the interior of the furnace
wall tube 35 becomes slower than the case of FIG. 4, and becomes a minimum (lower limit)
mass velocity at which the boiler 10 can be operated. In addition, similar to FIG. 4, the interior
of the furnace wall tube 35 has a supercritical pressure. Specifically, the minimum mass velocity
differs depending on the sizes of the tube outer diameter D, the small inner diameter dl and the
large inner diameter d2, but for example, when operating the boiler 10 at the rated output, the
average mass velocity of the furnace wall tube 35 is in the range of 1500 (kg/m2s) or less. In
addition, if there is a minimum mass velocity that allows the operation of the boiler 10, it is not
limited to the above-described range, but the general lower limit is about 700 kg/m2s.

                                                   20
[0096] As illustrated in FIG. 5, in the case of F1, it is recognized that when the enthalpy
increases, that is, when the amount of heat given to the furnace wall tube 35 increases, the tube
wall surface temperature transiently increases. That is, in the case of F1, it was checked that the
heating medium flows through the interior of the furnace wall tube 35 at the minimum mass
velocity, and when the amount of heat given to the furnace wall tube 35 increases, the heat
transfer degradation phenomenon occurs in which the heat transfer coefficient decreases during
supercritical pressure.
[0097] Meanwhile, as illustrated in FIG. 5, in the case of F2, it is recognized that when the
enthalpy increases, that is, when the amount of heat given to the furnace wall tube 35 increases,
as compared to the case of F 1, the tube wall surface temperature gradually increases but exceeds
the critical tube temperature Tmax. In contrast, in the case of F3, when the enthalpy increases,
that is, when the amount of heat given to the furnace wall tube 35 increases, as compared to the
case of F2, the tube wall surface temperature gradually increases. That is, it was checked that, in
the case of F3, in other words, when the shape of the furnace wall tube 35 satisfies the relational
formula "(Pr - Nr)/Hr > 1.25L + 55", the heating medium flows through the interior of the
furnace wall tubes 35 at a minimum mass velocity, even when the amount of heat given to the
furnace wall tube 35 increases, the decrease in the heat transfer coefficient during supercritical
pressure is suppressed, and it is possible to suppress the occurrence of the heat transfer
degradation phenomenon in the furnace wall tubes 35.
[0098] As described above, according to the configuration of first embodiment, in the furnace
wall tubes 35 in which the interior becomes a supercritical pressure, even if water flowing
through the interior of the furnace wall tubes 35 has a low mass velocity or the high heat flux is
applied thereto, by satisfying the relation of Wg/(Hr - D) > 0.40, as illustrated in FIG. 4, it is
possible to suppress the occurrence of the heat transfer degradation phenomenon. Thus, since
the occurrence of the heat transfer degradation phenomenon can be suppressed during
supercritical pressure, it is possible to suppress an increase in the tube temperature of the furnace
wall tube 35 (tube wall surface temperature of the furnace wall 31).
[0099] Also, according to the configuration of the first embodiment, even if the water flowing
through the interior of the furnace wall tube 35 has the lower limit velocity, by satisfying the
relational formula (Pr - Nr)/Hr > 1.25L + 55, as illustrated in FIG. 5, it is possible to suppress the
occurrence of the heat transfer degradation phenomenon. For this reason, even if water flows

                                                   21
through the interior of the furnace wall tube 35 at the lower limit mass velocity during
supercritical pressure, the occurrence of the heat transfer degradation phenomenon can be
suppressed, and thus, it is possible to suppress an increase in the tube temperature of the furnace
wall tube 35 (tube wall surface temperature of the furnace wall 31).
[0100] Also, according to the configuration of the first embodiment, the furnace wall tube 35
satisfying the above-mentioned relational formula can be applied to a supercritical pressure
variable pressure operation boiler of a vertical tubular furnace type. Thus, since it is possible to
suppress the occurrence of the heat transfer degradation of the furnace wall tube 35 during
supercritical pressure, it is possible to suitably maintain the heat transfer from the furnace wall
tube 35 to water and to stably generate the steam.
[0101] Also, according to the configuration of the first embodiment, the boiler 10 having the
furnace wall tube 35 can be applied to the thermal power plant 1 that uses the steam turbine 11.
For this reason, since the steam can be stably generated in the boiler 10, it is possible to stably
supply the steam toward the steam turbine 11, and thus, it is possible to stably operate the steam
turbine 11.
[0102] In the first embodiment, the furnace wall tube 35 which functions as the heat transfer
tube is applied to the conventional boiler, and the conventional boiler is applied to the thermal
power plant 1, but the present invention is not limited to this configuration. For example, the
heat transfer tube which satisfies the above-mentioned relational formula may be applied to an
exhausted heat recovery boiler, and the exhausted heat recovery boiler may be applied to an
integrated coal gasification combined cycle (IGCC) plant. That is, as long as a once-through
boiler is adopted in which the interior of the heat transfer tube has a supercritical pressure, it may
be applied to any boiler.
[0103] Furthermore, in the first embodiment, although F2 has the shape of the furnace wall tube
35 that satisfies the relational formula of "F > 0.40", and F3 has the shape of the furnace wall
tube 35 that satisfies the relational formula of "(Pr - Nr)/Hr > 1.25L + 55", the shape of the
furnace wall tube 35 is not limited to the shape of F2 or F3. That is, the shape of the furnace
wall tube 35 may be a shape obtained by combining the shape of F2 and the shape of F3.
[0104] In the first embodiment, although the shape of the rib portion 37 of the furnace wall tube
35 is not particularly limited, for example, it may be a shape illustrated in FIG. 6. FIG. 6 is a

                                                   22
partial cross-sectional view when taken along the tube axis direction illustrating an example of
the shape of the rib portion of the furnace wall tube.
[0105] As illustrated in FIG. 6, in the rib portion 37 of the furnace wall tube 35, the cross
sectional shape when taken along the tube axis direction is formed in a trapezoidal shape in
which an inner circumferential surface P2 is a bottom surface (lower base) and an inner
circumferential surface P1 is an upper surface (upper base). Furthermore, in this case, as in the
first embodiment, the rib height Hr of the rib portion 37 is a height from the inner
circumferential surface P2 to a location at which the rib portion 37 is located on the radially
innermost side (that is, the inner circumferential surface P1). Also, the groove width Wg is a
width between a bent location as a boundary between the inner circumferential surface P2 and
the rib portion 37 on one side in the tube axis direction of the groove portion 36, and a bent
location as a boundary between the inner circumferential surface P2 and the rib portion 37 on the
other side in the tube axis direction of the groove portion 36.
[0106] As illustrated in FIG. 6, the rib portion 37 of the furnace wall tube 35 may be a shape
having a bent portion which has a predetermined angle with respect to the inner circumferential
surface P1 and the inner circumferential surface P2. In addition, in FIG. 6, the rib portion 37 is
formed in a trapezoidal shape, but it may be a rectangular shape or a triangular shape and is not
particularly limited.
[0107] Furthermore, the shape of the rib portion 37 of the furnace wall tube 35 may be a shape
illustrated in FIG. 7. FIG. 7 is a partial cross-sectional view when taken along the tube axis
direction illustrating an example of the shape of the rib portion of the furnace wall tube.
[0108] As illustrated in FIG. 7, the rib portion 37 of the furnace wall tube 35 is configured so
that the cross-sectional shape when taken along the tube axis direction is formed in a curved
shape that continues with the inner circumferential surface P2 and is convex radially inward.
Furthermore, in this case, as in the first embodiment, the rib height Hr of the rib portion 37 is a
height from the inner circumferential surface P2 to a location (that is, top) at which the rib
portion 37 is located on the radially innermost side. Also, the groove width Wg is a width
between a boundary between the flat inner circumferential surface P2 and the curved rib portion
37 on one side in the tube axis direction of the groove portion 36, and a boundary between the

                                                   23
flat inner circumferential surface P2 and the curved rib portion 37 on the other side in the tube
axis direction of the groove portion 36.
[0109] As illustrated in FIG. 7, the rib portion 37 of the furnace wall tube 35 may be a shape
having a continuous curved surface which has a predetermined radius of curvature with respect
to the inner circumferential surface P1 and the inner circumferential surface P2. In FIG. 7, the
rib portion 37 has a curved shape which is convex radially inward, but the radially inner top of
the rib portion 37 may be a flat surface, and as long as it is a continuous curved surface with
respect to the inner circumferential surface P1 and the inner circumferential surface P2, it is not
particularly limited.
[0110] Furthermore, the shape of the rib portion 37 of the furnace wall tube 35 may be a shape
illustrated in FIGS. 8 and 9. FIG. 8 is a partial cross-sectional view when taken along the tube
axis direction illustrating an example of the shape of the rib portion of the furnace wall tube, and
FIG. 9 is a partial cross-sectional view when taken along the plane perpendicular to the tube axis
direction illustrating an example of the shape of the rib portion of the furnace wall tube.
[0111] As illustrated in FIG. 8, in the rib portion 37 of the furnace wall tube 35, a cross-sectional
shape when taken along the tube axis direction is formed in a triangular shape in which the inner
circumferential surface P2 is a bottom surface. At this time, an angle formed between the rib
portion 37 and the inner circumferential surface P2 differs on the upstream side and the
downstream side in the flow direction of water. That is, the angle formed between the rib
portion 37 and the inner circumferential surface P2 on the upstream side in the flow direction has
a small angle, compared to an angle formed between the rib portion 37 and the inner
circumferential surface P2 on the downstream side of the flow direction. That is, in the rib
portion 37, with respect to the flow direction of water, the gradient of the location of the
upstream side is steep, while the gradient of the location of the downstream side is slow.
[0112] In addition, as illustrated in FIG. 9, the rib portion 37 of the furnace wall tube 35 is
configured so that the cross-sectional shape when taken along a plane perpendicular to the tube
axis direction is formed in a triangular shape in which the inner circumferential surface P2 is a
bottom surface. At this time, the angle formed between the rib portion 37 and the inner
circumferential surface P2 differs on the upstream side and the downstream side in a turning
direction of water. That is, the angle formed between the rib portion 37 and the inner

                                                  24
circumferential surface P2 on the upstream side in the turning direction has a small angle, as
compared to the angle formed between the rib portion 37 and the inner circumferential surface
P2 on the downstream side in the turning direction. That is, in the rib portion 37, with respect to
the turning direction of the water, the gradient of the location of the upstream side is steep, while
the gradient of the location of the downstream side is slow.
[Second Embodiment]
[0113] Next, a furnace wall tube 35 according to a second embodiment will be described
referring to FIGS. 10 to 13. FIG. 10 is an explanatory view illustrating a relation between the
flow at the time of getting over the step (back-step flow) and the heat transfer coefficient. FIG.
11 is a graph of an example of the tube wall surface temperature of the furnace wall that varies
depending on the enthalpy. FIG. 12 is a graph of an example of the tube wall surface
temperature of the furnace wall that varies depending on the enthalpy. FIG. 13 is a graph
illustrating a relation among the rib height Hr, the rib interval Pr, the rib width Wr and the rib
number Nr which varies depending on a wetted perimeter length L in regard to a furnace wall
tube of the second embodiment. In addition, in the second embodiment, in order to avoid the
repeated description, only the parts different from those of the first embodiment will be
described, and the parts of the same configurations as those of the first embodiment are denoted
by the same reference numerals. The shape of the furnace wall tube 35 according to the second
embodiment will be described below.
[0114] The interior of the furnace wall tube 35 enters a state of supercritical pressure, and water
flows in this state. At this time, the furnace wall tube 35 of the second embodiment heated by
the combustor 22 has a shape with high heat transfer coefficient, while suppressing the heat
transfer degradation phenomenon.
[0115] Incidentally, since the interior of the furnace wall tube 35 has a supercritical pressure,
water flows in a single-phase state. Also, since water flows in the tube axis direction, the water
becomes the flow that gets over the rib portion 37, while being given a turning force by the rib
portion 37. At this time, the flow getting over the rib portion 37 is a so-called back-step flow.
The relation between the back-step flow and the heat transfer coefficient will be described
referring to FIG. 10.

                                                   25
[0116] FIG. 10 is an explanatory view illustrating a relation between the flow (back-step flow) at
the time of getting over the step and the heat transfer coefficient. A flow passage 100 through
which fluid flows illustrated in FIG. 10 is a flow passage in which a stepped portion 101 projects
from the bottom surface P4. In addition, a location, at which the bottom surface P4 is formed, is
a groove portion 102. Here, the flow passage 100 corresponds to the internal flow passage of the
furnace wall tube 35. Moreover, the stepped portion 101 corresponds to the rib portion 37 of the
furnace wall tube 35. Furthermore, the groove portion 102 corresponds to the groove portion 36
of the furnace wall tube 35. Furthermore, the fluid flowing through the flow passage 100
corresponds to the water as the heating medium. A predetermined flow direction of the flow of
fluid corresponds to the tube axis direction of flow of water.
[0117] Here, when the fluid flows in a predetermined flow direction in the flow passage 100, the
fluid flows on the stepped portion 101 and then separates at the comer portion of the stepped
portion 101. The separated fluid reattaches to the bottom surface P4 of the groove portion 102 at
the reattachment point 0. Thereafter, the water reattaching to the bottom surface P4 of the
groove portion 102 flows to the downstream side along the bottom surface P4.
[0118] At this time, the heat transfer coefficient of the bottom surface P4 in the predetermined
flow direction is as illustrated in FIG. 10, the heat transfer coefficient is highest at the
reattachment point 0, and the heat transfer coefficient is lowered, as it goes away from the
reattachment point 0 to the upstream side and the downstream side. For this reason, in order to
improve the heat transfer coefficient of the furnace wall tube 35, it is necessary to properly adjust
the position of the reattachment point 0.
[0119] Here, the position of the reattachment point 0 can be adjusted by varying the rib height
Hr and the rib width Wr. That is, it is possible to set the position of the reattachment point 0 to a
position at which the heat transfer coefficient of the furnace wall tube 35 is high, by setting the
rib height Hr and the rib width Wr to an optimum shape.
[0120] For this reason, the furnace wall tube 35 is formed in a shape in which the small inner
diameter dl, the large inner diameter d2, the tube outer diameter D, the groove width Wg, the rib
width Wr, the interval Pr, the rib number Nr, the rib height Hr and the wetted perimeter length L
satisfy the relational formula described below.

                                                    26
[0121] In the furnace wall tube 35, the groove width Wg, the rib height Hr and the tube outer
diameter D satisfy the relational formula "'Wg/(Hr - D) > 0.40" (hereinafter, referred to as
Formula (1)). Here, when "Wg/(Hr - D) = F", the relation is "F > 0.40". At this time, the rib
height Hr is "Hr > 0", and the rib portion 37 is configured to protrude radially inward. In
addition, the rib height Hr, the rib interval Pr, the rib width Wr, the rib number Nr, and the
wetted perimeter length L satisfy the relational formula "(Pr - Nr)/(Hr - Wr) > 0.40L + 9.0"
(hereinafter, referred to as Formula (2)). Although the details will be described below, by setting
the shape of the furnace wall tube 35 to a shape that satisfies the above-described two relational
formulas, it is possible to improve the heat transfer coefficient, while suppressing the occurrence
of the heat transfer degradation phenomenon.
[0122] The lead angle of the rib portion 37 having a spiral shape becomes an angle that satisfies
the above-mentioned relational formula. In addition, the lead angle is an angle with respect to
the tube axis direction, if the lead angle of the rib portion 37 is 00, it becomes a direction along
the tube axis direction, and if the lead angle of the rib portion 37 is 90', it becomes a direction
along the circumferential direction. Here, the lead angle of the rib portion 37 is also
appropriately changed depending on the number of the rib portions 37. That is, if the number of
the rib portions 37 is large, the lead angle of the rib portion 37 becomes a gentle angle
(approaching 00), and meanwhile, if the number of the rib portions 37 is small, the lead angle of
the rib portion 37 becomes a steep angle (approaching 90').
[0123] Next, the changes in tube wall surface temperature of the furnace wall that varies
depending on the enthalpy will be described referring to FIGS. 11 and 12. FIGS. 11 and 12 are
graphs of an example of the tube wall surface temperature of the furnace wall that varies
depending on the enthalpy. Here, the horizontal axes of FIGS. 11 and 12 are enthalpy that is
given to the furnace wall 31 (furnace wall tube 35), and the vertical axes thereof are the tube wall
surface temperature (temperature of the furnace wall tube 35).
[0124] As illustrated in FIGS. 11 and 12, Fl is a graph illustrating changes in the tube wall
surface temperature at the time of "F = 0.35", and has a shape of the conventional furnace wall
tube 35 which does not satisfy the relational formula of the first embodiment. Furthermore, F2 is
a graph illustrating changes in the tube wall surface temperature at the time of "F > 0.40", and
has a shape of the furnace wall tube 35 which satisfies the Formula (1) of the second
embodiment. In addition, F4 is a graph illustrating changes in the tube wall surface temperature

                                                  27
at the time of satisfying the two relational formulas of "F > 0.40" and "(Pr - Nr)/(Hr - Wr) >
0.40L + 9.0", and has a shape of the furnace wall tube 35 that satisfies the two relational
formulas of the second embodiment. In addition, Tw is a graph illustrating changes in
temperature (fluid temperature) of the water flowing through the interior of the furnace wall tube
35, and Tmax is a critical tube temperature that is acceptable for the furnace wall tube 35.
[0125] Here, in FIG. 11, the mass velocity of water flowing through the interior of the furnace
wall tube 35 becomes a low mass velocity at which flow stability of water inside the furnace wall
tube 35 can be secured, and the interior of the furnace wall tube 35 has a supercritical pressure.
Specifically, although the low mass velocity differs depending on the sizes of the tube outer
diameter D, the small inner diameter dl and the large inner diameter d2, for example, when
operating the boiler 10 at the rated output, the average mass velocity of the furnace wall tube 35
is in the range of 1000 (kg/m2s) or more and 2000 (kg/m2s) or less. In addition, as long as the
mass velocity is achieved at which the flow stability of water inside the furnace wall tube 35 can
be secured, it is not limited to the above-described range. Moreover, in the second embodiment,
the rated output becomes a rated electric power in the generator of the thermal power plant 1.
[0126] As illustrated in FIG. 11, in the case of F1, it is recognized that when the enthalpy
increases, that is, when the amount of heat given to the furnace wall tube 35 increases, the tube
wall surface temperature transiently increases. That is, in the case of Fl, it was checked that
when the amount of heat given to the furnace wall tube 35 increases, the heat transfer
degradation phenomenon occurs in which the heat transfer coefficient decreases during
supercritical pressure.
[0127] Meanwhile, as illustrated in FIG. 11, in the case of F2, it is recognized that when the
enthalpy increases, that is, when the amount of heat given to the furnace wall tube 35 increases,
the tube wall surface temperature gradually increases compared to the case of F 1. That is, in the
case of F2, it was checked that even when the amount of heat given to the furnace wall tube 35
increases, the decrease in the heat transfer coefficient during supercritical pressure is suppressed,
and it is possible to suppress the occurrence of the heat transfer degradation phenomenon in the
furnace wall tube 35. That is, it was checked that the shape of the furnace wall tube 35 which
satisfies the Formula (1) can suppress the occurrence of the heat transfer degradation
phenomenon.

                                                  28
[0128] Furthermore, as illustrated in FIG. 11, in the case of F4, it is recognized that the tube wall
surface temperature decreases compared to the case of F2 from small enthalpy to large enthalpy.
That is, in the case of F4, it was checked that the heat transfer coefficient of the furnace wall tube
35 is improved compared to the case of F2 regardless of the magnitude of the amount of heat
given to the furnace wall tube 35, and even when the amount of heat given to the furnace wall
tube 35 increases, the decrease in the heat transfer coefficient during supercritical pressure is also
suppressed, and it is possible to suppress the occurrence of the heat transfer degradation
phenomenon in the furnace wall tube 35. That is, it was checked that the shape of the furnace
wall tube 35 satisfying the Formulas (1) and (2) can improve the heat transfer coefficient, while
suppressing the occurrence of the heat transfer degradation phenomenon.
[0129] Next, in FIG. 12, the mass velocity of the water flowing through the interior of the
furnace wall tube 35 becomes slower than the case of FIG. 11, and becomes a minimum (lower
limit) mass velocity at which the boiler 10 can be operated. Furthermore, as in FIG. 11, the
interior of the furnace wall tube 35 has a supercritical pressure. Specifically, although the
minimum mass velocity differs depending on the sizes of the tube outer diameter D, the small
inner diameter dl and the large inner diameter d2, for example, when operating the boiler 10 at
the rated output, the average mass velocity of the furnace wall tube 35 is in the range of 1500
(kg/m2s) or less. In addition, as long as the minimum mass velocity is set at which the boiler 10
can be operated, it is not limited to the above-described range, and the general lower limit is
about 700 kg/m2s.
[0130] As illustrated in FIG. 12, in the case of F1, it is recognized that when the enthalpy
increases, that is, when the amount of heat given to the furnace wall tube 35 increases, the tube
wall surface temperature transiently increases. That is, in the case of Fl, it was checked that
when the heating medium flows through the interior of the furnace wall tube 35 at the minimum
mass velocity and the amount of heat given to the furnace wall tube 35 increases, the heat
transfer degradation phenomenon occurs in which the heat transfer coefficient decreases during
supercritical pressure.
[0131] Meanwhile, as illustrated in FIG. 12, in the case of F2, it is recognized that when the
enthalpy increases, that is, when the amount of heat given to the furnace wall tube 35 increases,
the tube wall surface temperature gradually increases as compared to the case of Fl but exceeds
the critical tube temperature Tmax.

                                                  29
[0132] [0116] In contrast, as illustrated in FIG. 12, in the case of F4, it was checked that the tube
wall surface temperature decreases from small enthalpy to large enthalpy as compared to the
case of F2. That is, in the case of F4, it was checked that the heat transfer coefficient of the
furnace wall tube 35 is improved compared to the case of F2, regardless of the amount of heat
given to the furnace wall tube 35. Furthermore, it was checked that even when the heating
medium flows through the interior of the furnace wall tube 35 at the minimum mass velocity and
the amount of heat given to the furnace wall tube 35 is large, the decrease in the heat transfer
coefficient during supercritical pressure is suppressed, and it is possible to suppress the
occurrence of the heat transfer degradation phenomenon in the furnace wall tube 35. That is, it
was checked that the shape of the furnace wall tube 35 satisfying the Formulas (1) and (2) can
improve the heat transfer coefficient, while suppressing the occurrence of the heat transfer
degradation phenomenon.
[0133] Next, a relation between a graph illustrating the relation among the rib height Hr, the rib
interval Pr, the rib width Wr and the rib number Nr, and the location according to F4, which
varies depending on the wetted perimeter length L, will be described referring to FIG. 13. FIG.
13 is a graph illustrating a relation among the rib height Hr, the rib interval Pr, the rib width Wr
and the rib number Nr, which varies depending on the wetted perimeter length L in regard to the
furnace wall tube of the second embodiment. In the graph of FIG. 13, the horizontal axis is a
wetted perimeter length L, and a vertical axis is "(Pr - Nr)/(Hr - Wr)".
[0134] SI illustrated in FIG. 13 is a line of "(Pr - Nr)/(Hr - Wr) = 0.40L + 9.0", and a region
according to F4 becomes a region in which the value of (Pr - Nr)/(Hr - Wr) becomes a value
greater than SI. That is, the furnace wall tube 35 of the second embodiment can have a shape
that can improve the heat transfer coefficient, while suppressing the occurrence of the heat
transfer degradation phenomenon, by setting the rib height Hr, the rib interval Pr, the rib width
Wr, the rib number Nr and the wetted perimeter length L to shapes that fall within the region of
F4.
[0135] As described above, according to the configuration of the second embodiment, in the
furnace wall tube 35 in which the interior has a supercritical pressure, by satisfying "Wg/(Hr - D)
> 0.40" and "(Pr - Nr)/(Hr - Wr) > 0.40L + 9.0", it is possible to improve the heat transfer
coefficient, while suppressing the occurrence of the heat transfer degradation phenomenon. For
this reason, by improving the heat transfer coefficient during supercritical pressure, while

                                                  30
suppressing the occurrence of the heat transfer degradation phenomenon, it is possible to
suppress the increase in the tube temperature (tube wall surface temperature of the furnace wall
31), over the magnitude of entropy.
[0136] Furthermore, according to the configuration of the second embodiment, even when water
flowing through the interior of the furnace wall tube 35 is low mass velocity (average mass
velocity is 1000 to 2000 kg/m2s), high heat flux is applied thereto, or the mass velocity of water
flowing through the interior of the furnace wall tube 35 is lowered (average mass velocity is
equal to or less than 1500 kg/m2s), it is possible to improve the heat transfer coefficient during
supercritical pressure, while suppressing the occurrence of the heat transfer degradation
phenomenon.
[0137] Furthermore, according to the configuration of the second embodiment, the furnace wall
tube 35 satisfying the above-mentioned relational formula can be applied to a supercritical
pressure variable pressure operation boiler of a vertical tubular furnace type. For this reason,
since it is possible to suppress the occurrence of the heat transfer degradation phenomenon of the
furnace wall tube 35 during supercritical pressure, it is possible to suitably maintain the heat
transfer from the furnace wall tube 35 to water, and the steam can be stably generated.
[0138] Furthermore, according to the configuration of the second embodiment, the boiler 10
having the furnace wall tube 35 can be applied to the thermal power plant 1 that uses the steam
turbine 11. Therefore, since the steam can be stably generated in the boiler 10, it is possible to
stably supply the seam toward the steam turbine 11, and thus, the steam turbine 11 can also be
stably operated.
[0139] In the second embodiment, although the furnace wall tube 35 serving as a heat transfer
tube is applied to a conventional boiler and the conventional boiler is applied to the thermal
power plant 1, the present invention is not limited to this configuration. For example, the heat
transfer tube which satisfies the above-mentioned relational formula may be applied to an
exhausted heat recovery boiler, and the exhausted heat recovery boiler may be applied to an
integrated coal gasification combined cycle (IGCC) device. That is, as long as a once-through
boiler is adopted in which the interior of the heat transfer tube has a supercritical pressure, the
heat transfer tube can be applied to any boiler.

                                                  31
[0140] Furthermore, although the shape of the rib portion 37 of the furnace wall tube 35 is not
particularly limited in the second embodiment, for example, as in the first embodiment, it may
have the shape as illustrated in FIGS. 6 to 9.
[Third Embodiment]
[0141] Next, the furnace wall tube 35 according to a third embodiment will be described
referring to FIG. 14. FIG. 14 is a graph illustrating a relation among the rib height Hr, the rib
interval Pr, the rib width Wr and the rib number Nr, which varies depending on the wetted
perimeter length L according to the furnace wall tube of the third embodiment. In addition, even
in the third embodiment, in order to avoid the repeated description, only the parts different from
those of the first and second embodiments will be described, and parts of the same
configurations as those of the first and second embodiments are denoted by the same reference
numerals. Although the tube outer diameter D is not particularly mentioned in the second
embodiment, the tube outer diameter D of the furnace wall tube 35 is formed to be "25 mm < D
< 35 mm" in the third embodiment. The furnace wall tube 35 according to the third embodiment
will be described below.
[0142] As described in the second embodiment, the average mass velocity of water flowing
through the interior of the furnace wall tube 35 is in the range of 1000 (kg/m2s) or more and
2000 (kg/m2s) or less, or is 1500 (kg/m2s) or less and equal to or greater than the minimum mass
velocity at which the boiler 10 can be operated. In this way, the mass velocity of the water
flowing through the interior of the furnace wall tube 35 becomes a preset mass velocity. The
reason is that, in order to achieve an optimum heat transfer coefficient of the furnace wall tube
35 that satisfies Formula (1) and Formula (2), by setting the mass velocity within the above
described range, the position of the reattachment point 0 illustrated in FIG. 10 is set to the
optimum position. At this time, when the tube outer diameter D of the furnace wall tube 35
decreases, the mass flow velocity increases, and meanwhile, when the tube outer diameter D
increases, the mass flow velocity decreases. Here, when the size of the tube outer diameter D of
the furnace wall tube 35 is too large or too small, the mass flow velocity departs from the above
described range, whereby the position of the reattachment point 0 illustrated in FIG. 10 may
change from the optimum position. For this reason, in order to achieve the mass flow velocity
that is suitable for the shape of the furnace wall tube 35 that satisfies Formula (1) and Formula

                                                   32
(2), the tube outer diameter D of the furnace wall tube 35 becomes a range to be described
below.
[0143] In the third embodiment, the tube outer diameter D of the furnace wall tube 35 is formed
to be "25 mm < D < 35 mm". Here, as illustrated in FIG. 14, the region defined by the tube outer
diameter D of the range of "25 mm < D < 35 mm" is a region that is interposed by two lines S2.
That is, the wetted perimeter length L is defined by a function of the tube outer diameter D as a
factor, when the tube outer diameter D increases, the wetted perimeter length L increases, and
when the tube outer diameter D decreases, the wetted perimeter length L decreases. Moreover,
in the two lines S2, the left line S2 of FIG. 14 is a line of the tube outer diameter "D = 25 mm"
and a right line S2 of FIG. 14 is a line of the tube outer diameter "D = 35 mm". Moreover, the
furnace wall tube 35 of the third embodiment has a shape in which the rib height Hr, the rib
interval Pr, the rib width Wr, the rib number Nr and the wetted perimeter length L fall within an
overlapped region in which the region of F4 defined by the line SI and the region interposed by
the two lines S2 overlap each other.
[0144] As described above, according to the configuration of the third embodiment, by setting
the tube outer diameter D to "25 mm < D < 35 mm", the mass flow velocity of water can be set
to the above-described range, and the mass flow velocity of water can be set to a suitable mass
flow velocity. Therefore, since it is possible to achieve the mass flow velocity that is suitable for
the shape of the furnace wall tube 35 which satisfies Formula (1) and Formula (2), the position
of the reattachment point 0 can be set to an optimum position, and the optimum performance of
the heat transfer coefficient can be achieved.
 [Fourth Embodiment]
[0145] Next, a furnace wall tube 35 according to a fourth embodiment will be described
referring to FIG. 15. FIG. 15 is a graph illustrating a relation among the rib height Hr, the rib
interval Pr, the rib width Wr and the rib number Nr, which vary depending on the wetted
perimeter length L, in regarding to the furnace wall tube of the fourth embodiment. In addition,
even in the fourth embodiment, in order to avoid the repeated description, the parts different
from those of the first to third embodiments will be described, and parts of the same
configurations as those of the first to third embodiments are denoted by the same reference

                                                    33
numerals. In the fourth embodiment, an upper limit value is provided in Formula (2). The
furnace wall tube 35 according to the fourth embodiment will be described below.
[0146] In the furnace wall tube 35 of the fourth embodiment, the rib height Hr, the rib interval
Pr, the rib width Wr, the rib number Nr and the wetted perimeter length L satisfy the relational
formula of "(Pr - Nr)/(Hr - Wr) < 0.40L + 80" (hereinafter, referred to as Formula (3)), in
addition to Formula (1) and Formula (2). That is, the furnace wall tube 35 of the third
embodiment becomes in the range of "0.40L + 9.0 < (Pr - Nr)/(Hr - Wr) < 0.40L + 80" when
Formula (2) and Formula (3) are combined with each other.
[0147] Here, in Formula (2), that is, in the formula of "(Pr - Nr)/(Hr - Wr) > 0.40L + 9.0", since
the upper limit of "(Pr - Nr)/(Hr - Wr)" is not set, when the formula of the left side extremely
increases, a direction is obtained in which the rib interval Pr is widened, the rib number Nr
increases, the rib height Hr becomes zero, and the rib width Wr becomes zero. In this case, it is
not easy to maintain the shape of the furnace wall tube 35.
[0148] Therefore, in the fourth embodiment 4, an upper limit value is set in Formula (3). Here,
as illustrated in FIG. 15, a line S3 is "(Pr - Nr)/(Hr - Wr) = 0.40L + 80". Moreover, the furnace
wall tube 35 of the fourth embodiment has a shape in which the rib height Hr, the rib interval Pr,
the rib width Wr, the rib number Nr and the wetted perimeter length L fall within the overlapped
region in which the region of F4 defined by the line Si, the region interposed by the two lines
S2, and a region smaller than the line S3 overlap one another. That is, the furnace wall tube 35
of the fourth embodiment has the rib height Hr, the rib interval Pr, the rib width Wr, the rib
number Nr, and the wetted perimeter length L in the region surrounded by the line Sl, the two
lines S2 and the line S3.
[0149] As described above, according to the configuration of the fourth embodiment, by
defining the upper limit value by Formula (3), it is possible to easily maintain the furnace wall
tube 35 to a suitable shape without diverging the rib height Hr, the rib interval Pr, the rib width
Wr, the rib number Nr, and the wetted perimeter length L.
[0150] In the first to fourth embodiments, although the turning direction of the groove portion 36
and the rib portion 37 having the spiral shape is not particularly limited, the turning direction
may be a clockwise direction, may be a counterclockwise direction, and is not particularly
limited.

                                 34
Reference Signs List
[0151]
1 THERMAL POWER PLANT
10 BOILER
11 STEAM TURBINE
21 FURNACE
22 COMBUSTOR
31 FURNACE WALL
35 FURNACE WALL TUBE
36 GROOVE PORTION
37 RIB PORTION
100 FLOW PASSAGE
101 STEPPED PORTION
102 GROOVE PORTION
D TUBE OUTER DIAMETER
dl SMALL INNER DIAMETER
d2 LARGE INNER DIAMETER
Wg GROOVE WIDTH
Wr RIB WIDTH
Hr RIB HEIGHT
P1 INNER CIRCUMFERENTIAL SURFACE
P2 INNER CIRCUMFERENTIAL SURFACE
P3 OUTER CIRCUMFERENTIAL SURFACE
P4 BOTTOM SURFACE
L WETTED PERIMETER LENGTH
0 REATTACHMENT POINT

                                                  35
CLAIMS
1.    A heat transfer tube which is provided in a boiler, an interior of the heat transfer tube
having a supercritical pressure and a heating medium flowing through the interior, the heat
transfer tube comprising:
        a groove portion that is formed on an inner circumferential surface and has a spiral shape
toward a tube axis direction; and
        a rib portion that is formed to protrude inward in a radial direction by the groove portion
of the spiral shape,
        wherein, in a cross section taken along the tube axis direction, when a width [mm] of the
groove portion in the tube axis direction is defined as Wg, a height [mm] of the rib portion in the
radial direction is defined as Hr, and a tube outer diameter [mm] is defined as D,
        the width Wg [mm] of the groove portion, the height Hr [mm] of the rib portion, and the
tube outer diameter D [mm] satisfy "Wg/(Hr - D) > 0.40".
2.     The heat transfer tube according to claim 1, wherein, when the boiler is operated at a rated
output, an average mass velocity of the heating medium flowing through the interior of the heat
transfer tube forming the furnace wall becomes 1000 to 2000 kg/m 2 s.
3.     The heat transfer tube according to claim 1 or 2, wherein, when an interval [mm] of the rib
portion in the tube axis direction is defined as Pr, the number of the rib portion in a cross section
which is taken perpendicularly to the tube axis direction is defined as Nr, and a wetted perimeter
length [mm] of the cross section which is taken perpendicularly to the tube axis direction is
defined as L, the height Hr [mm] of the rib portion, the interval Pr [mm] of the rib portion, the
number of the rib portion Nr and the wetted perimeter length L [mm] satisfy "(Pr - Nr)/Hr >
1.25L + 55".
4.     The heat transfer tube according to claim 3, wherein, when the boiler is operated at a rated
output, the average mass velocity of the heating medium flowing through the interior of the heat
transfer tube forming the furnace wall is equal to or less than 1500 kg/m 2 s.
5.     The heat transfer tube of any one according to claims 1 to 4, wherein the tube outer
diameter D [mm] is "25 mm < D < 40 mm".

                                                  36
6.    A heat transfer tube which is provided in a boiler, an interior of the heat transfer tube
having a supercritical pressure and a heating medium flowing through the interior, the heat
transfer tube comprising:
        a groove portion that is formed on an inner circumferential surface and has a spiral shape
toward a tube axis direction; and
        a rib portion that is formed to protrude inward in a radial direction by the groove portion
of the spiral shape,
        wherein, when a height [mm] of the rib portion in the radial direction is defined as Hr, an
interval [mm] of the rib portion in the tube axis direction is defined as Pr, the number of the rib
portion in the cross section which is taken perpendicularly to the tube axis direction is defined as
Nr, and a wetted perimeter length [mm] of the cross section which is taken perpendicularly to the
tube axis direction is defined as L,
        the height Hr [mm] of the rib portion, the interval Pr [mm] of the rib portion, the number
Nr of the rib portion (37) and the wetted perimeter length L [mm] satisfy "(Pr -Nr)/Hr > 1.25L +
55".
7.     The heat transfer tube according to claim 6, wherein, when the boiler is operated at a rated
output, an average mass velocity of the heating medium flowing through the interior of the heat
transfer tube forming the furnace wall is equal to or less than 1500 kg/m 2s.
8.     The heat transfer tube according to claim 6 or 7, wherein, in a cross section taken along
the tube axis direction, when a width [mm] of the groove portion in the tube axis direction is
defined as Wg, and a tube outer diameter [mm] is defined as D, the width Wg [mm] of the
groove portion, the height Hr [mm] of the rib portion, and the tube outer diameter D [mm] satisfy
"Wg/(Hr - D) > 0.40".
9.     The heat transfer tube according to claim 8, wherein, when the boiler is operated at a rated
output, an average mass velocity of the heating medium flowing through the interior of the heat
transfer tube forming the furnace wall becomes 1000 to 2000 kg/m 2 s.
10.    The heat transfer tube according to claim 8 or 9, wherein the tube outer diameter D [mm] is
"25 mm < D < 40 mm".

                                                  37
11.   A heat transfer tube which is provided in a boiler, an interior of the heat transfer tube
having a supercritical pressure and a heating medium flowing through the interior, the heat
transfer tube comprising:
        a groove portion that is formed on an inner circumferential surface and has a spiral shape
toward a tube axis direction; and
        a rib portion that is formed to protrude inward in a radial direction by the groove portion
of the spiral shape,
        wherein, when a height [mm] of the rib portion in the radial direction is defined as Hr, an
interval [mm] of the rib portion in the tube axis direction is defined as Pr, a width [mm] of the rib
portion in a circumferential direction of the inner circumferential surface is defined as Wr, the
number of the rib portion in the cross section which is taken perpendicularly to the tube axis
direction is defined as Nr, a wetted perimeter length [mm] of the cross section which is taken
perpendicularly to the tube axis direction is defined as L, a width [mm] of the groove portion in
the tube axis direction of the cross section which is taken along the tube axis direction is defined
as Wg, and a tube outer diameter [mm] is defined as D,
        the width Wg [mm] of the groove portion, the height Hr [mm] of the rib portion, and the
tube outer diameter D [mm] satisfy "Wg/(Hr - D) > 0.40", and
        the height Hr [mm] of the rib portion, the interval Pr [mm] of the rib portion, the width
Wr [mm] of the rib portion, the number Nr of the rib portion and the wetted perimeter length L
[mm] satisfy "(Pr -Nr)/(Hr - Wr) > 0.40L + 9.0".
12.    The heat transfer tube according to claim 11, wherein, when the boiler is operated at a
rated output, an average mass velocity of the heating medium flowing through the interior of the
heat transfer tube forming the furnace wall becomes 1000 to 2000 kg/m 2 s.
13.    The heat transfer tube according to claim 11 or 12, wherein, when the boiler is operated at
the rated output, the average mass velocity of the heating medium flowing through the interior of
the heat transfer tube forming the furnace wall is equal to or less than 1500 kg/m 2s.
14.    The heat transfer tube according to claim 12 or 13, wherein the tube outer diameter D
[mm] is "25 mm < D < 35 mm".
15.    The heat transfer tube according to any one of claims 11 to 14, wherein the height Hr [mm]
of the rib portion, the interval Pr [mm] of the rib portion, the width Wr [mm] of the rib portion,

                                                  38
the number Nr of the rib portion and the wetted perimeter length L [mm] satisfy "(Pr -Nr)/(Hr
Wr) < 0.40L + 80".
16.   A boiler comprising the heat transfer tube according to any one of claims I to 15 that is
used as the furnace wall tube that forms a furnace wall of the boiler operated at a supercritical
pressure, when operated at a rated output.
17.   The boiler which heats the heating medium flowing through the interior of the heat transfer
tube, by heating the heat transfer tube according to any one of claims 1 to 15 by radiation of
flame or high-temperature gas.
18.   A steam turbine device comprising: the boiler according to claim 16 or 17; and a steam
turbine that is operated by steam generated by heating of water as the heating medium which
flows through the interior of the heat transfer tube provided in the boiler.
                             Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems, Ltd.
                     Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                    SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2743> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271D><U+2704><U+2743><U+271F><U+2744>

                <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
            $
    "
        !
    #
"
#
                                           <U+2743> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271D><U+2704><U+2743><U+271F><U+2744>

                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
        "
            &'(
#
                               #
%
    )
                                             <U+2743> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271D><U+2704><U+2743><U+271F><U+2744>

                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
        "
            &'(
#
%
    )
                                             <U+2743> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271D><U+2704><U+2743><U+271F><U+2744>

    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
$
                               <U+2743> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271D><U+2704><U+2743><U+271F><U+2744>

    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
$
                               <U+2743> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271D><U+2704><U+2743><U+271F><U+2744>

    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
$
                               <U+2743> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271D><U+2704><U+2743><U+271F><U+2744>

              <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
         #
    "   " #
                                *
"
#
                                         <U+2743> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271D><U+2704><U+2743><U+271F><U+2744>

                                    <U+2743> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271D><U+2704><U+2743><U+271F><U+2744>
<removed-date>
                        *
                  &'(
<removed-apn>
              "
                                )
                        #   %
                  &'(
              "
                                )
                        #   %

                                                      <removed-apn>          <removed-date>
           <U+274D>         <U+274D>                            <U+274D>         <U+274D>
       -       #.-       . +&& ,              -       #.-       . +&& ,
                                   *                                      *
#                                      #
+&&,                                   +&&,
                                                                                        <U+2743> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271D><U+2704><U+2743><U+271F><U+2744>

                                       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
           <U+274D>         <U+274D>
       -       #.-       . +&& ,
                                   *
#
+&&,
                                                                  <U+2743> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271D><U+2704><U+2743><U+271F><U+2744>

