ABSTRACT
A handle arrangement (26) for a drawbar (10) of a retractable screen is disclosed. The
handle arrangement comprises a body (40), a first control handle (30) mounted on one
side of the body (40), a second control handle (28) mounted on the other side of the
body. A cam 62 is housed within the body (40) that is moveable between a first position
and a second position in independent response to actuation of the first control handle
(30) or the second control handle (28) and a cam roller (66) operatively associated with
a brake assembly and mounted for cam following movement such that when the cam
(62) is moved from the first position to the second position in response to actuation by
either the first control handle (30) or the second control handle (28), the brake is
released.
Figure 8

               8/8
       cco
000
                       cnc
    00  0 t.       t00
             -       -    ------

     A HANDLE ARRANGEMENT FOR A DRAWBAR FOR A RETRACTABLE SCREEN
   FIELD
 5 The present disclosure relates to retractable screens that extend across an architectural
   opening. In particular the present disclosure relates to a handle arrangement for a
   retractable screen, a drawbar having the handle arrangement mounted thereon and a
   retractable screen including the handle arrangement.
10 BACKGROUND
   The reference to prior art in this specification is not and should not be taken as an
   acknowledgment or any form of suggestion that the referenced prior art forms part of the
   common general knowledge in Australia or in any other country.
15
   Retractable screens that can be opened have found appeal with users due to their
   versatility in being able to be rolled away when not in use. This enables a wide and
   uninterrupted view when withdrawn.       However, other types of screens such as solar
   screens, transparent vinyl screens or the like may also be retractable.
20
   The present disclosure will be described with particular reference to an insect screen
   mesh. However, it will be appreciated that the disclosure may relate to other types of
   flexible screen material and no limitation is intended thereby.
25 Retractable screens can be mounted across any suitable architectural opening such as
   windows, doors, and between supports in outdoor areas such as pergolas, gazebos and
   the like. Retractable screens are generally insect screens.
   Retractable screens in general have a roller located within a housing, to which the screen
30 is rolled as the screen is closed and from which the screen is unrolled when the screen
   is opened. The roller is usually biased towards the closed or rolled position. The housing
   is typically fixed in place at the top of a vertically opening screen or at the side of a
   horizontally opening screen. The screen extends between a housing and a moveable
   handle post or draw bar that is moveable between an open position towards the housing
35 and a closed position away from the housing. Upper and lower, right or left guide tracks
   (for horizontally and vertically opening windows respectively) are operatively engaged
                                                 1

   with the respective ends of the moveable drawbar to guide movement of the post
   between open and closed positions.
   A disadvantage of the bias of a retractable screen towards the retracted or open position
 5 is that the screen may have no intermediate position between the closed and open
   positions. For example, a user may wish to partially open a screen door to permit people
   to pass through the opening. Another example is a vertically opening screen for a
   servery window in which it may be desirable to partially open the screen to allow objects
   to be passed through the window. Another disadvantage is that if inadvertently released,
10 the screen will uncontrollably pull back into the housing in response to the bias on the
   roller.
   In response to this problem, one of the present inventors has previously proposed a
   retractable screen having a braking mechanism that allows the screen to stop in any
15 desired intermediate position. The screen has a handle that is rotatably mounted on the
   drawbar. The handle is operatively attached to a brake member by means of a brake
   rod.    The rotatable handle is biased to the brake engaged position.         The brake is
   disengaged when a user rotates the handle on the one side of the drawbar and
   automatically engages when the handle is released.
20
   This arrangement is disclosed in Australian Patent Application No. 2010241510, the
   disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference, and in which a draw bar is
   referred to as a handle post.
25 DEFINITION
   In the present specification and claims the term "comprising " shall be understood to
   have a broad meaning similar to the term "including" and will be understood to imply the
   inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of
30 any other integer or step or group of integers or steps. This definition also applies to
   variations on the term "comprising" such as "comprise" and "comprises".
   SUMMARY
35 The present disclosure relates to an alternative handle arrangement for use with a
   retractable screen having a brake assembly that in some aspects may provide some
   practical advantages to a user.
                                                2

   According to one aspect, there is disclosed a retractable screen comprising a fixed
   screen post and a movable drawbar that is moveable away from the fixed screen post
 5 towards a closed position and is moveable towards the fixed screen post towards an
   open position;
            a first guide track operatively engaged with one end of the moveable drawbar;
            a handle arrangement on the drawbar
            a second guide track operatively engaged with the other end of the moveable
10 draw bar and a brake assembly for braking the movable drawbar in a position
   intermediate the open and closed positions, the brake assembly being biased towards a
   braking engagement with the first and/or second guide track and actuation of the handle
   arrangement causes disengagement of the braking engagement of the first and/or
   second guide track such that the moveable drawbar is free to move wherein;
15          the handle arrangement comprises a body, a first control handle mounted on one
   side of the body, a second control handle mounted on the other side of the body;
            a cam housed within the body that is moveable between a first position and a
   second position in independent response to actuation of the first control handle or the
   second control handle; and
20          a cam roller operatively associated with the brake assembly and mounted for cam
   following movement such that when the cam is moved from the first position to the
   second position in response to actuation by either the first handle or the second handle,
   the brake is released and the drawbar is free to move.
25 The retractable screen may be a horizontally opening screen in which case, the first
   guide track is an upper or lower guide track and the second guide track is the other of
   the lower or upper guide track.
   Alternatively, the retractable screen is a vertically opening screen, in which case, the first
30 guide track is a left or a right side guide track and the second guide track is the other of
   the right side or left side guide track.
   The brake assembly may be any suitable assembly that can engage the first and/or
   second guide tracks in a braking position. Suitably the brake assembly engages both
35 the first and the second guide track.
                                                  3

   The brake assembly may include a brake member for braking engagement with the or
   each guide track. The brake member may be of any suitable configuration and forms no
   part of the invention.
 5 The brake assembly may include a brake rod attached to the or each brake member.
   The handle arrangement comprises a body, a first control handle mounted on one side
   of the body and a second control handle mounted on the other side of the body.
10 The control handles are suitably mounted on a hinge that is parallel with the longitudinal
   axis of the moveable post for pivotal movement of the free end of the handle away from
   the body.
   In one aspect the handles are rectangular in shape.
15
   Suitably the handles are mounted flush to the body.
   The handle arrangement includes a cam housed within the body that is moveable
   between a first position and a second position in independent response to actuation of
20 the first control handle or the second control handle member. By independent response
   is meant that the respective handles operate independently of the other to actuate cam
   movement. In other words, actuation of one handle will not move the other handle, as is
   the case with handles of the conventional rotating type.          This arrangement is
   advantageous as it avoids interference with or by the handle on the other side of the
25 screen.
   Suitably the cam is a linear cam mounted on a cam pin.
   In the embodiment in which the handles are pivotally mounted to the body about a hinge
30 and have a free end, the handles may have at least one inwardly directed cam actuating
   projection towards the hinge end and are configured such that when the free end of the
   handle is pulled away from the body, the projections either directly or indirectly cause
   the cam to move along the cam pin.
35 The handle arrangement includes a cam roller operatively associated with the brake
   assembly and mounted for cam following movement such that when the cam is caused
                                                4

   to move from the first to the second position the brake is released and the drawbar is
   free to move.
   The cam roller may be operatively associated with the brake assembly by any suitable
 5 means. A particularly suitable arrangement is where the cam roller either directly or
   indirectly cooperates with a brake rod that is directly or indirectly coupled to a brake
   member that can engage a guide track in a brake position.
   In the aspect where either the first or the second guide track is brakingly engaged, there
10 may be a single cam roller.
   In a preferred aspect both first and second guide tracks are subject to braking
   engagement, the handle arrangement includes a first cam roller and a second cam roller.
   In this case, the cam suitably has two cam surfaces and each cam roller follows a
15 separate cam surface.
   Also disclosed herein is a moveable drawbar for a retractable screen having a handle
   arrangement as described herein.
20 Also disclosed herein is a handle arrangement comprising a body, a first control handle
   mounted on one side of the body, a second control handle mounted on the other side of
   the body;
           a cam housed within the body that is moveable between a first position and a
   second position in independent response to actuation of the first control handle or the
25 second control handle; and
           a cam roller operatively associated with a brake assembly and mounted for cam
   following movement such that when the cam is moved from the first position to the
   second position in response to actuation by either the first control handle or the second
   control handle, the brake is released and the drawbar is free to move.
30
   Further disclosed is a handle arrangement for a retractable screen having a fixed screen
   post and a draw bar that is moveable away from the fixed screen post towards a closed
   position and is moveable towards the fixed screen post towards a closed position, a first
   guide track operatively engaged with one end of the moveable drawbar, a second guide
35 track operatively engaged with the other end of the moveable drawbar and a brake
   assembly for braking the movable drawbar in a position intermediate the open and closed
   positions, the brake assembly being biased towards a braking engagement with the first
                                                 5

   and/or second guide track and           actuation of the handle arrangement causes
   disengagement of the braking engagement of the first and/or second guide track such
   that the moveable drawbar is free to move;
           a handle arrangement comprising a body, a first handle mounted on one side of
 5 the body, a second handle mounted on the other side of the body; and
           a cam housed within the body that is moveable between a first brake position and
   a second brake release position in independent response to actuation of the first handle
   member or the second handle member, a cam roller operatively associated with the
   brake assembly and mounted for cam following movement such that when the cam is
10 caused to move from the rest position to the brake release position in response to
   independent actuation by the first or the second handle, the brake is released and the
   drawbar is free to move.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
15
   Figure 1 is a perspective view of a moveable drawbar according to one aspect of the
   present disclosure;
   Figure 2 is a partially exploded view of the perspective view as shown in figure 1 showing
20 components of the brake assembly;
   Figure 3 is a perspective view of a handle arrangement as disclosed herein;
   Figure 4 is the view of figure 1 with the handle cover on one side removed;
25
   Figure 5 is an exploded view of the handle arrangement as shown in figure 3;
   Figure 6 is a perspective view of various components of the handle arrangement as
   shown in figure 3;
30
   Figure 7 is an exploded top view of the handle arrangement shown in figure 3; and
   Figure 8 is a partially exploded view of the components as shown in figure 6.
35
                                                 6

   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
   Embodiments will be described below, in detail, with reference to accompanying
   drawings. The primary purpose of this detailed description is to instruct persons having
 5 an interest in the subject matter of the invention how to carry the invention into practical
   effect. However, it is to be clearly understood that the specific nature of this detailed
   description does not supersede the generality of the preceding statements in the above
   Summary. In the accompanying diagrammatic drawings:
10 Figure 1 is perspective view of a moveable drawbar 10 for a horizontally opening
   retractable screen of the type having a fixed screen post housing a roller. The drawbar
   10 has an upper end 12 configured to engage an upper guide track of the retractable
   screen and a lower end 14 configured to engage a lower guide track of the retractable
   screen.
15
   The drawbar 10 has a first side wall 16, an opposed side wall 18, a front wall 20 that in
   use is towards the fixed post housing the roller and a rear wall 22. The front wall 20 has
   a longitudinal channel 24 that in use receives and retains the edge of a flexible screen.
20 The drawbar 10 has a centrally located handle arrangement 26.                  The handle
   arrangement 26 has a rectangular shaped control handle 28 mounted flush on one side
   16 and a second rectangular shaped handle 30 mounted flush on the other side 18 of
   the drawbar. Operation of the control handles 28, 30 will be described below.
25 Figure 2 shows a partially exploded view of the drawbar 10 shown in figure 1. Figure 2
   shows the lower end 14 of the drawbar 10 having a lower cap 32 configured to engage
   a lower guide track. The lower cap 32 houses a lower brake assembly 34 that includes
   a brake member 36 that is configured to engage the lower guide track in a braking
   engagement, a spring 37 and a brake rod 38. The brake rod 38 is operatively associated
30 with the handle arrangement 26 as will be discussed below.
   The spring 37 biases the brake member 36 into the braking engagement position on the
   guide track. That means that the drawbar can be braked in any position intermediate
   the closed and open positions. In order to move the drawbar 10, either handle 28 or 30
35 is actuated so as to disengage the brake and allow a user to slide the drawbar 10 along
   the guide tracks. When the handle is released, the bias of the spring 37 returns the
   brake to the braking position. The operation of this will be described below.
                                                7

   The drawbar 10 has an identical upper brake assembly in the upper part thereof that
   operates in the same manner as the lower brake assembly 34.
 5 Figure 3 shows a detail of the handle arrangement 26. The handle arrangement 26 has
   a body in the form of a two part handle casing 40a and 40b. A handle cover 42, 44 is
   provided on each side so as to provide a neat and flush appearance.
   Figure 4 shows the handle arrangement 26 as shown in figure 3 with the handle cover
10 42 removed. Upper and lower hinge blocks 50, 52 that support the hinge for panel handle
   28 can now be seen. Thus handle 28 can pivot anticlockwise about the hinge. There is
   a gap 58 between the free edge 56 of the panel handle 28 and the handle casing 40a
   that provides space for a user to place their fingers so that they can pull the out free edge
   56 outwardly so as to pivot the handle 28. The free edge 56 has a rounded finger
15 gripping portion extending along the length thereof for user comfort.
   This arrangement means that in use, a user can pull the handle to release the brake and
   can then push the drawbar against the bias of the roller towards the closed position in
   the direction of arrow A.      It will be appreciated that such user operation is very
20 comfortable for a user and in some cases, may allow operation using one or two fingers.
   Figures 5 and 6 show still further exploded views. In these figures, the hinge 60 for the
   handle 28 may be seen. The first body casing 40a is moved away so as to reveal the
   inner part of the handle arrangement 26. The inner part of the handle arrangement 26
25 has a linear cam 62 mounted on a horizontal cam rod 63 for linear movement therealong
   (more clearly seen in figure 6), a first cam slide 64 having an upper end 64a is attached
   to a first upper cam roller 66. The lower end 64b is connected to the upper brake rod
   (not shown).
30 The handle arrangement 26 includes a second cam slide 74. The second cam slide 74
   has the same structure as the first cam slide 64, except that its position is reversed in
   that the second cam slide 74 has an upper end 74a that is operatively connected to the
   lower brake rod 38 and the lower end 74b is fixed to a second lower cam roller 76.
35 The handle 30 has two cam actuator projections 80, 82 that extend through openings in
   the handle casing 40b and are in close proximity to or about one end of the linear cam
   62. These projections 80, 82 may be more clearly seen in figure 6. When the panel
                                                 8

   handle 30 is pivoted away from the handle casing, the cam actuator projections 80, 82
   force the linear cam 62 in the direction B along cam rod 63.
   Figure 7 is a plan view of the interaction between the projections and the linear cam 62.
 5 This view shows that when handle 30 pivots outwards in the direction shown by arrow A,
   the projections 80, 82 push the cam 62 along the cam pin in the direction of arrow D.
   The other handle 28 also has two inwardly facing cam actuating projections 90, having
   positions that are staggered relative to projections 80, 82 such that the projections
10 overlap. Pivoting of the other handle 28 has the same effect of moving the cam 62 along
   the cam pin 63.
   It will be appreciated that movement of one handle for actuation of the cam is completely
   independent of the handle on the opposite side of the body. This operation of one handle
15 does not effect a movement of the other handle.
   Each handle 28, 30 has a further projection 94, 96 that in use cooperates with handle
   springs and pins 100, 102 (shown in Figure 6) that biases the handles 28, 30 towards
   the closed position.
20
   Figure 8 shows that the linear cam 62 has an upper cam surface 62a and a lower cam
   surface 62b. The upper cam roller 66 follows the upper cam surface 62a as the cam 62
   moves along the cam pin 63 and the lower cam roller 70 follows the lower cam surface
   62b.
25
   When the cam actuator projections 80, 82 are actuated so as to move the cam 62 along
   the cam pin 63, the upper cam roller 66 moves in the upward direction. This causes the
   second cam 74 slide to also move upwards, thereby raising the lower brake rod 38 to
   disengage the brake 36 member from the lower guide track. At the same time, the lower
30 cam roller 70 moves in the lower direction thereby lowering the upper brake rod so as to
   disengage the upper brake member from the upper guide track.
   When the handle is released, the bias of the brake springs and the handle springs return
   the handle to the rest positon and the brake automatically re-engages the guide tracks.
35
   It will be appreciated that there are a number of advantages in the disclosed handle
   arrangement over the prior art rotating handle arrangement.          The present handle
                                                9

   arrangement can be flush with the drawbar. This not only provides a neat and pleasing
   appearance, but has practical advantages. In practice, retracting screens are generally
   mounted adjacent a door or window. That the handle is flush with the drawbar and does
   not extend therefrom, means that there is no interference with a handle that may project
 5 from the associated door or window.        The flush nature also makes the handle
   arrangement easier to keep clean.
   The handle is pulled outwardly and a user can place all their fingers behind the handle
   to push the door into the open position which provides for improved user comfort and
10 ease of use. The independence of door actuation is also important in that when the
   handle arrangement is actuated on one side, there is no movement of the handle on the
   other side. It will be appreciated that where the screen is associated with a door or
   window having a projecting handle that is close to the handle arrangement any
   movement of the inwardly facing handle by actuation of the outwardly facing handle
15 would cause interference with the door or window handle.
   It will be appreciated that various changes and modifications may be made to the
   invention as disclosed and claimed herein without departing from the sprit or scope
   thereof.
20
                                              10

CLAIMS
1.   A retractable screen having a fixed screen post and a movable drawbar that is
     moveable away from the fixed screen post towards a closed position and is
     moveable towards the fixed screen post towards an open position;
              a first guide track operatively engaged with one end of the moveable
     drawbar;
              a handle arrangement on the drawbar;
              a second guide track operatively engaged with the other end of the
     moveable drawbar and a brake assembly for braking the movable drawbar in a
     position intermediate the open and closed positions, the brake assembly being
     biased towards a braking engagement with the first and/or second guide track
     and actuation of the handle arrangement causes disengagement of the braking
     engagement of the first and/or second guide track such that the moveable
     drawbar is free to move wherein;
              the handle arrangement comprises a body, a first control handle mounted
     on one side of the body, a second control handle mounted on the other side of
     the body;
              a cam housed within the body that is moveable between a first position
     and a second position in independent response to actuation of the first control
     handle or the second control handle; and
              a cam roller operatively associated with the brake assembly and mounted
     for cam following movement such that when the cam is moved from the first
     position to the second position in response to actuation by either the first handle
     or the second handle, the brake is released and the drawbar is free to move.
2.   The retractable screen of claim 1 that is a horizontally opening screen, wherein
     the first guide track is an upper guide track and the second guide track is a lower
     guide track.
3.   The retractable screen of claim 2, that is a vertically opening screen, wherein the
     first guide track is a left side guide track and the second guide track a right side.
4.   The retractable screen of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the brake assembly
     comprises a first brake member for braking engagement with the first guide track
     and a second brake member for braking engagement with the second guide
     track.
                                             11

5.  The retractable screen of claim 4, wherein the brake assembly further comprises
    a first brake rod attached to the first brake member and a second brake rod
    attached to the second brake member.
6.  The retractable screen of any claim 5, wherein the control handles are
    substantially rectangular and mounted at one end on a hinge that is parallel with
    the longitudinal axis of the moveable post such that the free end of the handle
    can be pulled away from the body to pivot the handle about the hinge.
7.  The retractable screen of claim 6, wherein each handle is mounted flush to the
    body.
8.  The retractable screen of claim 6 or claim 7, wherein the cam is a linear cam
    mounted on a cam pin.
9.  The retractable screen of claim 8, wherein each handle has at least one inwardly
    directed cam actuating projection towards the hinge end and each handle is
    configured such that when the free end of the handle is pulled away from the
    body, the or each projection either directly or indirectly causes the cam to move
    along the cam pin.
10. The retractable screen of claim 9, wherein the linear cam has a first cam surface
    and a second cam surface, the handle arrangement has a first cam roller for
    following the first cam surface and a second cam roller for following the second
    cam surface.
11. The retractable screen of claim 10, wherein the first cam roller cooperates with
    the first brake rod and the second cam roller cooperates with the second brake
    rod.
12. A handle arrangement comprising a body, a first control handle mounted on one
    side of the body, a second control handle mounted on the other side of the body;
             a cam housed within the body that is moveable between a first position
    and a second position in independent response to actuation of the first control
    handle or the second control handle; and
                                        12

             a cam roller operatively associated with a brake assembly and mounted
    for cam following movement such that when the cam is moved from the first
    position to the second position in response to actuation by either the first control
    handle or the second control handle, the brake is released.
13. The handle arrangement of claim 12, wherein the first and second control handles
    are substantially rectangular and mounted at one end on a hinge that is parallel
    with the longitudinal axis of the moveable post such that the free end of the handle
    can be pulled away from the body to pivot the handle about the hinge.
14. The handle arrangement of claim 13, wherein each handle is mounted flush to
    the body.
15. The handle arrangement of claim 13 or claim 14, wherein the cam is a linear cam
    mounted on a cam pin.
16. The handle arrangement of claim 15, wherein each handle has at least one
    inwardly directed cam actuating projection towards the hinge end and that are
    configured such that when the free end of the handle is pulled away from the
    body, the or each projection either directly or indirectly cause the cam to move
    along the cam pin.
17. The handle arrangement of claim 16, wherein the linear cam has first and second
    cam surfaces, a first cam roller for following the first cam surface and a second
    cam roller for following the second cam surface.
18. A drawbar for a retractable screen comprising the handle arrangement of any
    one of claims 12 to 17.
19. A handle arrangement for a retractable screen having a fixed screen post and a
    drawbar that is moveable away from the fixed screen post towards a closed
    position and is moveable towards the fixed screen post towards a closed position,
    a first guide track operatively engaged with one end of the moveable drawbar, a
    second guide track operatively engaged with the other end of the moveable
    drawbar and a brake assembly for braking the movable drawbar in a position
    intermediate the open and closed positions, the brake assembly being biased
    towards a braking engagement with the first and/or second guide track and
                                          13

actuation of the handle arrangement causes disengagement of the braking
engagement of the first and/or second guide track such that the moveable
drawbar is free to move; wherein the handle arrangement comprises a body, a
first handle mounted on one side of the body, a second handle mounted on the
other side of the body; and
         a cam housed within the body that is moveable between a first brake
position and a second brake release position in independent response to
actuation of the first handle member or the second handle member, a cam roller
operatively associated with the brake assembly and mounted for cam following
movement such that when the cam is caused to move from the rest position to
the brake release position in response to independent actuation by the first or
the second handle, the brake is released and the drawbar is free to move.
                                    14

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
