Abstract
The present invention seeks to provide a method for oral drug dosage medicament regime adherence
monitoring comprising: creating an oral drug dosage medicament regime for a patient, the medicament
regime having a plurality of medicament intervals for the oral consumption of a plurality of oral drugs,
loading the plurality of oral drugs into a cartridge of an oral drug dispensing device; providing a patient
wearable vital sign monitoring device for being worn by the patient, associating the patient wearable
vital sign monitoring device and the oral drug dispensing device with a patient profile, the patient profile
being further associated with the oral drug dosage medicament regime, wherein, for at least one
medicament interval, the method comprises: alerting the patient of the medicament interval using the
patient wearable vital sign monitoring device; obtaining first vital sign measurement data for the patient
using the patient wearable vital sign monitoring device; detecting the dispensing of an oral drug from
the cartridge of the of oral drug dispensing device; obtaining second vital sign measurement data for the
patient post the dispensing using the patient wearable vital sign monitoring device, and comparing the
first and second vital sign measurement data to calculate a probability of the oral consumption of the
oral drug.

  System and method for drug dosage medicament regime adherence
                                             monitoring
Field of the Invention
[1]      The present invention relates to patient self-medicating drug dispensing apparatus and in
particular, but not necessarily entirely, to system and method for drug dosage medicament regime
adherence monitoring.
[2]      The embodiments described herein are described with reference to a preferred embodiment
of oral drug dosage medicament regime adherence but the invention may be utilised for other drug
dosage regimes such as injections, suppositories, eyedrops and the like.
Background of the Invention
[3]      Oral drug dispensing devices are commonplace today in use for dispensing oral drugs in
accordance with a dosage regime.
[4]      As such, patients can essentially self-medicate under the guidance or supervision of the drug
dispensing device.
[5]      However, problems exist with such arrangements in that certain patients, such as recalcitrant
children, depressed patients or the like, may not consume such dispensed drugs and, for example,
only dispense the drug from the dispensing device to satisfy drug dispensing monitoring requirements
but not necessarily consume the dispensed drug.
[6]      The present invention seeks to provide a system and method for oral drug dosage
medicament regime adherence monitoring, which will overcome or substantially ameliorate at least
some of the deficiencies of the prior art, or to at least provide an alternative.
[7]      It is to be understood that, if any prior art information is referred to herein, such reference
does not constitute an admission that the information forms part of the common general knowledge
in the art, in Australia or any other country.
Summary of the Disclosure
[8]      According to one aspect, there is provided a method for oral drug dosage medicament regime
adherence monitoring comprising: creating an oral drug dosage medicament regime for a patient, the
medicament regime having a plurality of medicament intervals for the oral consumption of a plurality
of oral drugs, loading the plurality of oral drugs into a cartridge of an oral drug dispensing device;
providing a patient wearable vital sign monitoring device for being worn by the patient, associating
the patient wearable vital sign monitoring device and the oral drug dispensing device with a patient
                                               Page 1 of 18

profile, the patient profile being further associated with the oral drug dosage medicament regime,
wherein, for at least one medicament interval, the method comprises: alerting the patient of the
medicament interval using the patient wearable vital sign monitoring device; obtaining first vital sign
measurement data for the patient using the patient wearable vital sign monitoring device; detecting
the dispensing of an oral drug from the cartridge of the of oral drug dispensing device; obtaining
second vital sign measurement data for the patient post the dispensing using the patient wearable
vital sign monitoring device, and comparing the first and second vital sign measurement data to
calculate a probability of the oral consumption of the oral drug.
[9]      The vital sign measurement data may be indicative of at least one of heart rate, blood
pressure, respiratory rate, body temperature, blood glucose levels and pulse oximetry measurements.
[10]     The vital sign data may represent more than one vital sign measurement.
[11]     Coordinating the probability may comprise calculating the probability in accordance with the
more than one vital sign measurements.
[12]     The probability may be a binary value.
[13]     Calculating the probability may comprise utilising a deviation threshold.
[14]     The probability may be a scalar vale.
[15]     Calculating the probability may comprise utilising a probability distribution.
[16]     The method may further comprise ascertaining the proximity of the patient wearable vital
sign monitoring device and the oral drug dispensing device substantially at the time of the detecting
of the dispensing of the oral drug from the cartridge.
[17]     The ascertaining of the proximity may comprise establishing a short-range radio frequency
communication channel between the patient wearable vital sign monitoring device and the oral drug
dispensing device.
[18]     The ascertaining of the proximity may comprise obtaining location data obtained by both of
the patient wearable vital sign monitoring device and the oral drug dispensing device and calculating
a proximity distance utilising the location data.
[19]     The ascertaining of the proximity may comprise obtaining location data obtained by the
patient wearable vital sign monitoring device and calculating a proximity distance utilising the location
data and a known location of the oral drug dispensing device.
[20]     The method may further comprise utilising a supervised machine learning technique to
optimise parameters in accordance with historical vital sign response data and calculating the
probability in accordance with the parameters.
[21]     The parameters may be further optimised in accordance with drug data.
[22]     The parameters of further optimised in accordance with patient data.
                                               Page 2 of 18

[23]     The parameters may be artificial neural network weightings and wherein calculating the
probability further may comprise utilising an artificial neural network configured utilising the artificial
neural network weightings.
[24]     Other aspects of the invention are also disclosed.
Brief Description of the Drawings
[25]     Notwithstanding any other forms which may fall within the scope of the present invention,
preferred embodiments of the disclosure will now be described, by way of example only, with
reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
[26]     Figure 1 shows a system for oral drug dosage medicament regime adherence monitoring in
accordance with a present embodiment;
[27]     Figure 2 shows a method for oral drug dosage medicament regime adherence monitoring in
accordance with a present embodiment; and
[28]     Figure 3 shows a supervised machine learning optimised artificial neural network for
calculating oral consumption probabilities in accordance with pre-and post input vital sign
measurement data.
Description of Embodiments
[29]     For the purposes of promoting an understanding of the principles in accordance with the
disclosure, reference will now be made to the embodiments illustrated in the drawings and specific
language will be used to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of
the scope of the disclosure is thereby intended. Any alterations and further modifications of the
inventive features illustrated herein, and any additional applications of the principles of the disclosure
as illustrated herein, which would normally occur to one skilled in the relevant art and having
possession of this disclosure, are to be considered within the scope of the disclosure.
[30]     Before the structures, systems and associated methods relating to the system and method for
oral drug dosage medicament regime adherence monitoring are disclosed and described, it is to be
understood that this disclosure is not limited to the particular configurations, process steps, and
materials disclosed herein as such may vary somewhat. It is also to be understood that the terminology
employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not
intended to be limiting since the scope of the disclosure will be limited only by the claims and
equivalents thereof.
[31]     In describing and claiming the subject matter of the disclosure, the following terminology will
be used in accordance with the definitions set out below.
                                              Page 3 of 18

[32]       It must be noted that, as used in this specification and the appended claims, the singular forms
''a,'" "an," and "the" include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.
[33]       As used herein, the terms "comprising," "including," "containing," "characterised by," and
grammatical equivalents thereof are inclusive or open-ended terms that do not exclude additional,
unrecited elements or method steps.
[34]       It should be noted in the following description that like or the same reference numerals in
different embodiments denote the same or similar features.
[35]       In the embodiments that follow, there is provided a system and associated methodology for
oral drug dosage medicament regime adherence monitoring. As will be described in further detail
below, the system and methodology can be used to detect whether patients actually consume
prescribed oral drugs.
[36]       Turning now to figure 1, there is shown a system 1 for oral drug dosage medicament regime
adherence monitoring.
[37]       In the specific computational architecture shown in figure 1, the system 100 comprises a
patient wearable vital sign monitoring device 115. Furthermore, the system 100 comprises an oral
drug dispenser device 127. Yet further, the system 100 may comprise a server 110.
[38]       The dispenser device 127, vital sign monitoring device 115 and the server 101 may be in
operable communication across a computer data network 114, such as the Internet.
[39]       As such, in general terms, the server 101 may be utilised for maintaining patient profiles
including oral drug dosage medicament regimes such that, in use, the oral drug dispenser device 127
and the vital sign monitoring device 150 may also be associated with the patient profile for the
purposes of monitoring consumption of the prescribed oral drugs.
[40]       Further specifically, each of the server 101, vital sign monitoring device 115 and the dispenser
device 127 may comprise a processor 111 for processing digital data.
[41]       In operable communication with the processor 111 across a system bus 110 is a memory
device 120 for storing digital data including computer program code. As such, in use, the processor
101 fetches computer code instructions from the memory device 120 for execution and wherein data
results may be stored back in the memory device 120.
[42]       As such, the processor 111 may be controlled to operate in accordance with various computer
code modules including those shown in figure 1 for the specific tasks of oral drug dosage medicament
regime adherence monitoring in the manner described herein.
[43]       Specifically, and referring specifically to the server 101, there can be seen the memory device
120 comprising various software modules including an operating system 109, various control modules
and various data. As such, the operating system 109 may be fetched for execution by the processor
                                                   Page 4 of 18

111 during the bootstrap phase. Thereafter, the control modules may act in unison with the data
stored within the data modules/databases for the purposes of implementing the computational
functionality described herein.
[44]     Specifically, and as will be described in further detail below with reference to an exemplary
embodiment, the memory device 120 of the server 101 may comprise a scheduling module 108 for
scheduling timing intervals of oral drug dosage medicament regimes for patients.
[45]     The server 101 may further comprise a measurement module 107 for measuring various
patent vital signs in the manner described herein and also for detecting the dispensing of oral drugs
from the dispenser device 127. Furthermore, the server 101 may comprise an oral consumption
detection module 106 configured to determine the probability of the consumption of an oral drug in
accordance with the measurements obtained by the measurement module 107.
[46]     For the data, the server 101 may comprise a data, such as a relational database or the like
which may comprise various patient profiles 105. The patient profiles may be stored in relation to
various oral drugs 104 which are to be taken in accordance with an oral drug dosage medicament
regime 103. Furthermore, patient vital sign responses 102 may also be stored within the database.
[47]     Furthermore, the patient wearable vital sign monitoring device 115 similarly comprise various
software modules for configuring the functionality of the monitoring device 115. As can be seen, the
software modules may again comprise a scheduling module 119 for the purposes of managing the oral
drug dosage medicament regime including the various timing intervals thereof including in being able
to alert the wearer of a treatment regime interval. The monitoring device 150 may further comprise
a measurement module for monitoring vital sign measurement data obtained from a vital sign sensor
123.
[48]     As can also be seen, the monitoring device 115 may comprise an 1/O module 109 for
interfacing with various computer peripherals including a digital display device 121 for the purposes
of displaying digital data to the user, including regime treatment interval data. Furthermore, the
device 150 may comprise a GPS receiver 122 for ascertaining the location of the monitoring device
115 which, in embodiments, and as will be described in further detail below, may be utilised for the
purposes of detecting the proximity of the monitoring device 115 to the dispensing device 127.
[49]     As alluded to above, the monitoring device 150 may comprise a vital sign sensor 123 which,
may be configured for monitoring various vital signs of the user such as heart rate, blood pressure,
respiratory rate, body temperature, blood glucose levels, pulse oximetry and other vital signs. As will
be described in further detail below, the system 100 is configured for monitoring these vital signs for
detecting the probability of the consumption of an oral drug.
                                               Page 5 of 18

[50]     Furthermore, the monitoring device 150 may comprise a short-range radiofrequency
transceiver 124 (such as a Bluetooth transceiver) which, in embodiments as will be described in further
detail below may further be utilised for the purposes of detecting the proximity of the monitoring
device 115 to the dispenser device 127.
[51]     Considering now the dispenser device 127, as can be seen, the dispenser device 127 may
further comprise software modules. In embodiments, the dispenser device 127 may take the form of
a low powered firmware based (such as an FPGA device) computer device.
[52]     The software modules of the dispenser device 127 may similarly comprise a schedule module
126 for controlling the scheduling of the timing intervals of the oral drug dosage medicament regime
and, furthermore, a dispensing model 125 for controlling the dispensing of one or more of the oral
drugs.
[53]     As regard, as can be seen, the dispenser device 127 may further comprise an 1/O interface 109
which may interface with a drug dispenser cartridge 116. As will be described in further detail below,
the drug dispenser cartridge 116 may be loaded with various oral drugs such that, in use, the dispenser
device 127 is able to dispense drugs from the cartridge 116 at the appropriate timing intervals.
[54]     Furthermore, the dispenser device 127 may further comprise a GPS 122 and a short range
radiofrequency transceiver 124 which, similarly, and as will be described in further detail below, may
be utilised for the purposes of detecting the proximity of the dispenser device 127 and the vital sign
monitoring device 115.
[55]     As alluded to above, the server 101, monitoring device 115 and dispenser device 127 may be
in operable communication across the data network 114.
[56]     As such, both the monitoring device 115 and the dispenser device 127 may receive the oral
drug dosage medicament regime data from the server 101 and furthermore, send data back to the
server 101 for monitoring purposes wherein, for example, the monitoring device 115 may send back
vital sign measurement data to the server 101 and the dispenser device 127 may send back drug
dispensing data to the server 101. As such, the server 101 is able to use the vital sign measurement
data and drug dispensing data for the purposes of correlating the probability of oral drug
consumption.
[57]     It should be noted that the architecture provided in figure 1 is exemplary only and that
modifications may be made thereto within the purposive scope of the embodiments provided herein.
For example, the oral drug dispenser device 127 need not necessarily comprise processing capabilities
in the manner described above in lieu of taking the form more of a mere drug container wherein
access to the drugs are monitored rather with the vital sign monitoring device 115. For example, the
dispenser device 1 27 may take the form of a pillbox or the like wherein the monitoring device 115 is
                                              Page 6 of 18

able to record data (such as by capturing image data, reading appropriately located RFID tags and the
like) so as to be able to detect retrieval of oral drugs from the pillbox.
[58]      Furthermore, the system 100 need not necessarily comprise the server architecture in the
manner shown in figure 1 in lieu of the vital sign monitoring device 115 performing certain or all of
the computational functionality currently shown as being performed by the server 101 in figure 1.
[59]     As such, as can be appreciated, various modifications may be made to the system architecture
of figure 1 wherein however, the immutable feature of present embodiments however is that vital
sign measurement data is used to detect the probability of oral consumption of a drug.
Method for oral drug dosage medicament regime adherence monitoring
[60]      Having described the above computational architecture, there will now be described a
method 200 for oral drug dosage medicament regime adherence monitoring as a substantially shown
in figure 2.
[61]     Again, should be appreciated that the methodology 200 is provided primarily for illustrative
purposes and that no technical limitation should necessarily be imputed to all embodiments
accordingly.
[62]      Now, the method 200 starts at step 202 wherein an oral drug dosage medicament regime is
configured for a patient.
[63]     Specifically, the treatment regime may be specified by a treatment doctor and written on a
prescription slip which is then taken to a pharmacist for provision thereof.
[64]     The pharmacist may then load the cartridge 116 of the oral drug dispenser device 127 with
the prescribed oral drugs. Specifically, the cartridge 116 may comprise a separate compartment for
each day of the week so as to be able to contain the prescribed drugs for one week. In further in
embodiments, the cartridge 116 may be configured for containing drugs for longer periods.
[65]     The patient may then be provided with the vital sign monitoring device 115. In embodiments,
the vital sign monitoring device 115 may take the form of a conventional wearable, fitness tracking
device or the like such as an Apple Watch device which has been configured with the appropriate
software modules for implementing the various functionality described herein.
[66]     At step 204, the monitoring device 115 and the dispenser device 127 are paired with a patient
profile 105 within the database of the server 101. For example, the pharmacist, utilising a pharmacist
client terminal (not shown) in operable communication with the server 101 may input a serial number
of the dispenser device 127 so as to allow the server 101 to associate a particular dispenser device
127 with the patient profile 105 within the database.
                                                Page 7 of 18

[67]      Additionally, the monitoring device 115 may authenticate or communicate with the server
101 for reporting patient ID or other identification data (such as name, contact information and the
like) such that the server 101 is able to associate the monitoring device 115 and the dispenser device
127 with a particular patient profile.
[68]      The patient profile is associated with the oral drug dosage medicament regime 103 so as to
allow the system 100 to control the dispenser device 127 and monitoring device 115 accordingly.
[69]      The oral drug dosage medicament regime 103 may be sent across a data network 115 to the
wearable device 115 and dispenser device 127 so as to allow these devices to act accordingly, including
in the manner described herein.
[70]      In embodiments, the method 200 comprises monitoring the wearable status 213 of the
wearable 115. The monitoring of the wearable status 230 may be utilised, for example, for detecting
whether the patient has removed the wearable device 115.
[71]      Monitoring the wearable status 230 may comprise continually monitoring the vital signs of
the patient utilising the vital signs sensor 123, such as by continually monitoring the patient's heart
rate, body temperature or the like.
[72]      As such, should the wearable device 115 fail to detect such vital signs, an alert may be
generated for the rectification of the situation.
[73]      In embodiments, the monitoring of the wearable status may be confined to particular periods
of the day so as to allow the patient to remove the monitoring device 115 at night, when bathing or
the like.
[74]      Generally, the monitoring of the wearable status 213 need only be conducted around times
of treatment intervals so as to ensure that the wearable device 115 is worn when the patient is
supposed to take an oral drug so as to allow for the monitoring of the consumption of the oral drug.
[75]      Now, at step 205, the wearable device 115 may alert the patient as to a treatment interval.
For example, the wearable device 115 may vibrate, display information on the display device or the
like informing the patient that the patient is to take a particular oral drug or drugs at a particular time.
[76]      Then, at step 209, the wearable device 115 is configured for monitoring and recording vital
sign measurement data of the patient. As alluded to above, and as will be described in further detail
below, the vital sign measurement data obtained from the patient as compared before and after the
dispensing of the oral drug so as to be able to detect a biometric response to the taking of the drug so
as to be able to detect the probability of the consumption of the oral drug.
[77]      As such, having issued the alert to the patient, the monitoring device 115 begins monitoring
the vital signs of the patient. As alluded to above, the monitoring device 115, utilising the sensor 123
may monitor various vital signs including those listed above.
                                                Page 8 of 18

[78]     The monitoring device 115 may send the measured vital sign measurement data to the server
101. In embodiments, the monitoring device 115 may send raw measurement data or alternatively
derivations thereof such as, for example, average heart rate or the like.
[79]     Then, at step 206, the dispenser device 127 is configured for detecting the dispensing of an
oral drug. For example, the cartridge 116 may allow selective access to the appropriate compartment
for the particular treatment interval and may further indicate the appropriate compartment with an
appropriate display for the patient, such as an illuminated indicator adjacent the appropriate
compartment.
[80]     In embodiments, the dispenser device 127 may be configured for detecting the opening of the
cartridge 116 so as to be able to play out audio instructions. Specifically, the memory device 120 may
comprise audio files, or text and text-to-speech capabilities configured to play out instructions for the
consumption of the drug or other audio messages.
[81]     In embodiments, the system 100 at step 212 may be configured for monitoring the proximity
of the patient to the dispenser device 127 so as to be able to detect unauthorised dispensing of the
oral drugs such as wherein, for example, the drugs may be dispensed to another person.
[82]     As alluded to above, in one embodiment, both the monitoring device 115 and the dispenser
device 127 may determine their respective locations utilising the GPS receiver 122. As such, the
proximity of the patient to the dispenser device 127 may be collected in accordance with the
respective GPS locations received via the GPS receivers 122. In alternative embodiments, in lieu of the
dispenser device 127 comprises a GPS receiver 122, the known location of the dispenser device 127
(such as a Street address or the like) may be utilised rather.
[83]     In alternative embodiments, as opposed to utilising GPS receivers 122, the monitoring device
115 may communicate with the dispenser device 127 using the short range radiofrequency transceiver
124. For example, utilising Bluetooth, the monitoring device 150 may pair with the dispenser device
127 such that there proximity is ascertained by the successful pairing of the Bluetooth transceiver.
[84]     It should be noted that, in embodiments, as opposed to the dispenser device 127
communicating with the server 101 across the data network 114, the dispenser device 127 may rather
communicate via the short range radiofrequency transceiver is 124 with the monitoring device 115.
[85]     For example, the opening of a compartment of the cartridge 160 may be communicated by
the dispenser device one and 27 to the monitoring device 115 utilising the Bluetooth interface wherein
the opening of the appropriate compartment may be then communicated via the monitoring device
115 to the server 101.
[86]     At step 215, having detected the dispensing of the oral drug at step 206, the system 100 is
configured for obtaining further vital sign measurement data.
                                              Page 9 of 18

[87]     As such, at step 214, the system 100 is able to detect deviations between the vital sign
measurement data obtained before the dispensing of the oral drug and after so as to be able to
calculate the probability of the oral consumption of the oral drug at step 210.
[88]      For example, the consumption of an oral drug may have the effect of lowering (or even raising)
the blood pressure, heart rate, blood glucose levels or other vital signs including combinations thereof.
As such, the known, previously measured or expected deviations in the vital signs may be utilised for
detecting the probability of the taking of the oral consumption.
[89]      For example, should the vital signs indicate no statistically significant deviation, the system
100 may calculate a low probability of the consumption of the oral drug so as to be able to take
appropriate action, such as by sending an alert notification to the treatment doctor or the like.
[90]      In embodiments, the vital sign deviation essentially be hardcoded and the server 101
configurations settings and the probability output represent a binary output wherein, for example,
should the patients' blood pressure not to drop by a certain threshold amount within a certain time
period, it is determined by the server 100 and one that the patient has not taken the oral drug.
[91]      In further embodiments, probability distribution curves may be utilised wherein, for example,
a probability may be correlated by the server 101 so as to be able to inform the treatment doctor, for
example, that there is only a 20% chance that the patient is in fact taken the oral drug.
[92]     As alluded to above, the probability compilation may be multifactorial wherein a combination
of vital signs are utilised for determining the probability.
[93]      Now, in embodiments, step 208, supervised machine learning, such as which may be used for
optimising a trained artificial neural network may be utilised for detecting the probability of the oral
consumption of the medicament. The trained artificial neural network 208 may have as input an
output the probability of the consumption of the oral drug the vital sign measurement data received
pre and post the dispensing of the oral drug.
[94]     Specifically, turning to figure 3, there is shown an exemplary supervised machine learning
architecture 300.
[95]     As can be seen, for the specific implementation shown, the architecture 300 may comprise a
trained artificial neural network 307 which is optimised using optimised parameters 306. The
optimised parameters 306 may be obtained utilising a machine learning training algorithm 304 which
trains on historical vital sign response data 301 and potentially other data also, including drug data
303 and patient data 305.
[96]     The patient data may represent various patient data such as demographic data, such as
gender, age, medical history and the like. The drug data 303 may represent a specific drug, drug
                                               Page 10 of 18

category, drug dosage amount and the like. The historical vital sign response data 301 may represent
historical data for the one or more vital signs alluded to above.
[97]     As such, the training algorithm 304 is able to identify co-variances between the various
available data so as to be able to allow the artificial neural network 307 to perform the probability
calcuation 308 in a more accurate manner including one which may not be readily be apparent to
treatment professionals.
[98]     Specifically, having been configured with the optimised parameters 306, the trained artificial
neural network 307 may have as input the pre and post vital sign measurement data 302, 309 so as to
be able to output a probability calculation 308 of the oral consumption of an oral drug.
[99]     As can be appreciated from the foregoing, certain embodiments make it possible to determine
whether a patient has taken a medication as prescribed by monitoring changes and vital signs and the
like such as blood pressure, heart rate, blood sugar levels, cholesterol levels, body temperature and
more.
[100]    Additionally, certain embodiments help reduce the risk of overdose especially for elderly
people and that the system controls the dispensing of oral medicaments from the cartridge.
[101]    Additionally, by utilising the system according to certain embodiments to control the
dispensing of medicaments in accordance with a particular regime, adverse effects from drug to drug
interaction may be reduced.
[102]    Additionally, certain embodiments allow healthcare professionals to monitor several patients
simultaneously.
[103]    Additionally, certain embodiments allow healthcare professionals to change or modify
prescriptions dynamically, such as by notifying the pharmacist such that the oral drug dispenser device
127 adjust to the new treatment regime such that the patient need not even revisit the pharmacist or
doctor.
[104]    Yet further, certain embodiments are able to detect the removal of the patient wearable vital
sign monitoring device 115 which is a risk for children, depressed and/or mentally ill patients and, in
yet further certain embodiments, facilitate in locating the patient.
                                              Page 11 of 18

Interpretation
Wireless:
[105] The invention may be embodied using devices conforming to other network standards and for
other applications, including, for example other WLAN standards and other wireless standards.
Applications that can be accommodated include IEEE 802.11 wireless LANs and links, and wireless
Ethernet.
[106]    In the context of this document, the term "wireless" and its derivatives may be used to
describe circuits, devices, systems, methods, techniques, communications channels, etc., that may
communicate data through the use of modulated electromagnetic radiation through a non-solid
medium. The term does not imply that the associated devices do not contain any wires, although in
some embodiments they might not. In the context of this document, the term "wired" and its
derivatives may be used to describe circuits, devices, systems, methods, techniques, communications
channels, etc., that may communicate data through the use of modulated electromagnetic radiation
through a solid medium. The term does not imply that the associated devices are coupled by
electrically conductive wires.
Processes:
[107] Unless specifically stated otherwise, as apparent from the following discussions, it is
appreciated that throughout the specification discussions utilizing terms such as "processing",
"computing", "calculating", "determining", "analysing" or the like, refer to the action and/or processes
of a computer or computing system, or similar electronic computing device, that manipulate and/or
transform data represented as physical, such as electronic, quantities into other data similarly
represented as physical quantities.
Processor:
[108] In a similar manner, the term "processor" may refer to any device or portion of a device that
processes electronic data, e.g., from registers and/or memory to transform that electronic data into
other electronic data that, e.g., may be stored in registers and/or memory. A "computer" or a
"computing device" or a "computing machine" or a "computing platform" may include one or more
processors.
[109]    The methodologies described herein are, in one embodiment, performable by one or more
processors that accept computer-readable (also called machine-readable) code containing a set of
instructions that when executed by one or more of the processors carry out at least one of the
methods described herein. Any processor capable of executing a set of instructions (sequential or
otherwise) that specify actions to be taken are included. Thus, one example is a typical processing
                                             Page 12 of 18

system that includes one or more processors. The processing system further may include a memory
subsystem including main RAM and/or a static RAM, and/or ROM.
Computer-Readable Medium:
[110] Furthermore, a computer-readable carrier medium may form, or be included in a computer
program product. A computer program product can be stored on a computer usable carrier medium,
the computer program product comprising a computer readable program means for causing a
processor to perform a method as described herein.
Networked or Multiple Processors:
[111] In alternative embodiments, the one or more processors operate as a standalone device or
may be connected, e.g., networked to other processor(s), in a networked deployment, the one or
more processors may operate in the capacity of a server or a client machine in server-client network
environment, or as a peer machine in a peer-to-peer or distributed network environment. The one or
more processors may form a web appliance, a network router, switch or bridge, or any machine
capable of executing a set of instructions (sequential or otherwise) that specify actions to be taken by
that machine.
[112]    Note that while some diagram(s) only show(s) a single processor and a single memory that
carries the computer-readable code, those in the art will understand that many of the components
described above are included, but not explicitly shown or described in order not to obscure the
inventive aspect. For example, while only a single machine is illustrated, the term "machine" shall also
be taken to include any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute a set (or multiple
sets) of instructions to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein.
Additional Embodiments:
[113] Thus, one embodiment of each of the methods described herein is in the form of a computer
readable carrier medium carrying a set of instructions, e.g., a computer program that are for execution
on one or more processors. Thus, as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art, embodiments of
the present invention may be embodied as a method, an apparatus such as a special purpose
apparatus, an apparatus such as a data processing system, or a computer-readable carrier medium.
The computer-readable carrier medium carries computer readable code including a set of instructions
that when executed on one or more processors cause a processor or processors to implement a
method. Accordingly, aspects of the present invention may take the form of a method, an entirely
hardware embodiment, an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment combining software and
hardware aspects. Furthermore, the present invention may take the form of carrier medium (e.g., a
                                              Page 13 of 18

computer program product on a computer-readable storage medium) carrying computer-readable
program code embodied in the medium.
Carrier Medium:
[114] The software may further be transmitted or received over a network via a network interface
device. While the carrier medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium, the
term "carrier medium" should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media (e.g., a
centralized or distributed database, and/or associated caches and servers) that store the one or more
sets of instructions. The term "carrier medium" shall also be taken to include any medium that is
capable of storing, encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by one or more of the
processors and that cause the one or more processors to perform any one or more of the
methodologies of the present invention. A carrier medium may take many forms, including but not
limited to, non-volatile media, volatile media, and transmission media.
Implementation:
[115] It will be understood that the steps of methods discussed are performed in one embodiment
by an appropriate processor (or processors) of a processing (i.e., computer) system executing
instructions (computer-readable code) stored in storage. It will also be understood that the invention
is not limited to any particular implementation or programming technique and that the invention may
be implemented using any appropriate techniques for implementing the functionality described
herein. The invention is not limited to any particular programming language or operating system.
Means For Carrying out a Method or Function
[116] Furthermore, some of the embodiments are described herein as a method or combination of
elements of a method that can be implemented by a processor of a processor device, computer
system, or by other means of carrying out the function. Thus, a processor with the necessary
instructions for carrying out such a method or element of a method forms a means for carrying out
the method or element of a method. Furthermore, an element described herein of an apparatus
embodiment is an example of a means for carrying out the function performed by the element for the
purpose of carrying out the invention.
Connected
[117] Similarly, it is to be noticed that the term connected, when used in the claims, should not be
interpreted as being limitative to direct connections only. Thus, the scope of the expression a device
A connected to a device B should not be limited to devices or systems wherein an output of device A
is directly connected to an input of device B. It means that there exists a path between an output of
A and an input of B which may be a path including other devices or means. "Connected" may mean
                                             Page 14 of 18

that two or more elements are either in direct physical or electrical contact, or that two or more
elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co-operate or interact with each other.
Embodiments:
[118] Reference throughout this specification to "one embodiment" or "an embodiment" means
that a particular feature, structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is
included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus, appearances of the phrases "in
one embodiment" or "in an embodiment" in various places throughout this specification are not
necessarily all referring to the same embodiment, but may. Furthermore, the particular features,
structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner, as would be apparent to one
of ordinary skill in the art from this disclosure, in one or more embodiments.
[119]    Similarly it should be appreciated that in the above description of example embodiments of
the invention, various features of the invention are sometimes grouped together in a single
embodiment, figure, or description thereof for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure and aiding
in the understanding of one or more of the various inventive aspects. This method of disclosure,
however, is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed invention requires more
features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather, as the following claims reflect, inventive
aspects lie in less than all features of a single foregoing disclosed embodiment. Thus, the claims
following the Detailed Description of Specific Embodiments are hereby expressly incorporated into
this Detailed Description of Specific Embodiments, with each claim standing on its own as a separate
embodiment of this invention.
[120]    Furthermore, while some embodiments described herein include some but not other features
included in other embodiments, combinations of features of different embodiments are meant to be
within the scope of the invention, and form different embodiments, as would be understood by those
in the art. For example, in the following claims, any of the claimed embodiments can be used in any
combination.
Different Instances of Objects
[121] As used herein, unless otherwise specified the use of the ordinal adjectives "first", "second",
"third", etc., to describe a common object, merely indicate that different instances of like objects are
being referred to, and are not intended to imply that the objects so described must be in a given
sequence, either temporally, spatially, in ranking, or in any other manner.
Specific Details
[122]    In the description provided herein, numerous specific details are set forth.     However, it is
understood that embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details. In
                                                Page 15 of 18

other instances, well-known methods, structures and techniques have not been shown in detail in
order not to obscure an understanding of this description.
Terminology
[123] In describing the preferred embodiment of the invention illustrated in the drawings, specific
terminology will be resorted to for the sake of clarity. However, the invention is not intended to be
limited to the specific terms so selected, and it is to be understood that each specific term includes all
technical equivalents which operate in a similar manner to accomplish a similar technical purpose.
Terms such as "forward", "rearward", "radially", "peripherally", "upwardly", "downwardly", and the
like are used as words of convenience to provide reference points and are not to be construed as
limiting terms.
Comprising and Including
[124] In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention, except where the
context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the word "comprise" or
variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" are used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the
presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or addition of further features in
various embodiments of the invention.
[125]    Any one of the terms: including or which includes or that includes as used herein is also an
open term that also means including at least the elements/features that follow the term, but not
excluding others. Thus, including is synonymous with and means comprising.
Scope of Invention
[126] Thus, while there has been described what are believed to be the preferred embodiments of
the invention, those skilled in the art will recognize that other and further modifications may be made
thereto without departing from the spirit of the invention, and it is intended to claim all such changes
and modifications as fall within the scope of the invention. For example, any formulas given above
are merely representative of procedures that may be used. Functionality may be added or deleted
from the block diagrams and operations may be interchanged among functional blocks. Steps may be
added or deleted to methods described within the scope of the present invention.
[127]    Although the invention has been described with reference to specific examples, it will be
appreciated by those skilled in the art that the invention may be embodied in many other forms.
Industrial Applicability
[128]    It is apparent from the above, that the arrangements described are applicable to the
medicament dosage machine industries.
                                                Page 16 of 18

Claims
1.       A method for oral drug dosage medicament regime adherence monitoring comprising:
         creating an oral drug dosage medicament regime for a patient, the medicament regime
having a plurality of medicament intervals for the oral consumption of a plurality of doses of an oral
drug,
          loading the doses into a cartridge of an oral drug dispensing device;
          providing a patient wearable vital sign monitoring device for being worn by the patient,
         associating the patient wearable vital sign monitoring device and the oral drug dispensing
device with a patient profile, the patient profile being further associated with the oral drug dosage
medicament regime, wherein, for at least one medicament interval, the method comprises:
         alerting the patient of the medicament interval using at least one of the patient wearable
vital sign monitoring device and the oral drug dispensing device;
         obtaining first vital sign measurement data for the patient using the patient wearable vital
sign monitoring device;
         detecting the dispensing of a dose from the cartridge of the of oral drug dispensing device;
         obtaining second vital sign measurement data for the patient post the dispensing using the
patient wearable vital sign monitoring device, and
         comparing the first and second vital sign measurement data to detect a known vital sign
effect of the calculate a probability of the oral consumption of the oral drug.
2.       A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein vital sign measurement data is indicative of at least
one of heart rate, blood pressure, respiratory rate, body temperature, blood glucose levels and pulse
oximetry measurements.
3.       A method as claimed in claim 2, wherein the vital sign data represents more than one vital
sign measurement.
4.       A method as claimed in claim 3, wherein calculating the probability comprises calculating the
probability in accordance with the more than one vital sign measurements.
5.       A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the probability is a binary value.
6.       A method as claimed in claim 5, wherein calculating the probability comprises utilising a
deviation threshold.
7.       A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the probability is a scalar vale.
8.       A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein calculating the probability comprises utilising a
probability distribution curve.
                                                     17

9.       A method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising ascertaining the proximity of the patient
wearable vital sign monitoring device and the oral drug dispensing device substantially at the time of
the detecting of the dispensing of the oral drug from the cartridge.
10.      A method as claimed in claim 9, wherein the ascertaining of the proximity comprises
establishing a short-range radio frequency communication channel between the patient wearable
vital sign monitoring device and the oral drug dispensing device.
11.      A method as claimed in claim 9, wherein the ascertaining of the proximity comprises
obtaining location data obtained by both of the patient wearable vital sign monitoring device and
the oral drug dispensing device and calculating a proximity distance utilising the location data.
12.      A method as claimed in claim 9, wherein the ascertaining of the proximity comprises
obtaining location data obtained by the patient wearable vital sign monitoring device and calculating
a proximity distance utilising the location data and a known location of the oral drug dispensing
device.
13.      A method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising utilising a supervised machine learning
technique to optimise parameters in accordance with historical vital sign response data and
calculating the probability in accordance with the parameters.
14.      A method as claimed in claim 13, wherein the parameters are further optimised in
accordance with drug data.
15.      A method as claimed in claim 13, wherein the parameters of further optimised in
accordance with patient data.
16.      A method as claimed in claim 13, wherein the parameters are artificial neural network
weightings and wherein calculating the probability further comprises utilising an artificial neural
network configured utilising the artificial neural network weightings.
                                                    18

                                            100              127                                             GPS           122
                                                                 120
                                                                                                          Cartridge        116
                                                                     125           Dispense
                                                                                                              RF           124
                                                                     126           Schedule
                                                    101                                                       I/O          109
                                                                             Memory
                                                  120                                            113
                    Responses                                                                                              110
  102
  103                 Regimes                                                          NI                 Processor        111
 104                     Drugs
                 Patient profiles                                          Oral drug dispenser device
 105
             Data
                                                             115
 106                   Detect                                                                                RF            124
 107                  Measure                                                                              Sensor          123
 108                  Schedule                                   120                                         GPS           122
             Control Modules                                         118           Measure
                                                                                                           Display         121
  109               OS                                               119           Schedule
                                                                                                              I/O          109
                                 112                114
          Memory                              113                            Memory                113
110                                                                                                                        110
          Processor       I/O          NI                 Data                              NI            Processor
111                                                                                                                        111
        Server                                                             Patient wearable vital sign monitoring device
                                                          Figure 1
<removed-date>              <removed-apn>

<removed-date>
                                                                          200
                                         Start
                                Configure dosage regime   202
<removed-apn>
                                    Load dispenser        203
               213
                Monitoring
                                 Pair wearable / device   204
              wearable status
                                     Alert interval       205
                        209        Monitor vital sign
               212
                  Monitor
                                  Monitor dispensing      206
                 proximity
                        215        Monitor vital sign
                                                                Trained
                        214         Detect deviation
                                                                 ANN
                                                                      208
                                  Calulate probability    210
                                          End             211
                                        Figure 2

                                                <removed-apn>          <removed-date>
                                                                     300
                          Drug Data        303
                                       304
    Historical vital sign  Training                                   305
301                                             Patient Data
    response data          algorithm
                          Optimised
                          parameters       306
                                       307
                            Trained                                   308
302   Pre vital Sign data                   probability calculation
                             ANN
309  Post vital Sign data
                              Figure 3

