ABSTRACT
A composite yarn comprising one or more ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene fibres
wrapped around one or more polyurethane-polyurea copolymer fibres.

                                                                                          P/00/01 1
                                                                                  Regulation 3.2(2)
                                        AUSTRALIA
                                     Patents Act 1990
                                         ORIGINAL
                        COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                                   STANDARD PATENT
Application No.
Lodged:
Invention Title:    FABRIC SYSTEM
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best method of
performing it known to:

                                                 2
FABRIC SYSTEM
FIELD OF INVENTION
[0001]     The present invention relates to a novel fabric system for use in protecting a
wearer from injury, such as injuries inflicted by friction or chaffing.
[0002]     In one form, the invention relates to a fabric system comprising a specific
combination of synthetic yarns that provide increased protection from friction injury
during sporting activities and other movement related activities.
[0003]     In one particular aspect the present invention is suitable for use in garments
worn during sporting activities.
[0004]     While it is convenient to hereinafter describe the invention in relation to
protecting cyclists from friction related injury if they fall from their bicycle, it will be
appreciated that the invention is not so limited and can be used to reduce various types
of injury in a wide variety of sports.        In particular, the invention has applicability to
accidents that involve a person sliding along a surface, such as gravel, asphalt, sinter,
dirt or grass. This could, for example include sporting accidents occurring during track
and field sports such as running, high jumping or pole vaulting; field sports such as
hockey, soccer, or football; roller sports such as skateboarding, roller skating or scooter
riding; court sports such as tennis, badminton or squash; or simply walking.               The
invention also has applicability to non-sport related injury such as those that may be
incurred during military training or fire fighting or other physical occupations.
BACKGROUND ART
[0005]     It is to be appreciated that any discussion of documents, devices, acts or
knowledge in this specification is included to explain the context of the present invention.
Further, the discussion throughout this specification comes about due to the realisation
of the inventor and/or the identification of certain related art problems by the inventor.
Moreover, any discussion of material such as documents, devices, acts or knowledge in
this specification is included to explain the context of the invention in terms of the

                                                3
inventor's knowledge and experience and, accordingly, any such discussion should not
be taken as an admission that any of the material forms part of the prior art base or the
common general knowledge in the relevant art in Australia, or elsewhere, on or before
the priority date of the disclosure and claims herein.
[0006]      Sporting clothing typically fits closely to the wearer's body to reduce wind
resistance, to avoid catching or dragging on equipment (eg bicycle seat) or to make the
wearer harder to tackle in the case of contact sports. Sporting clothing is also typically
manufactured of fabric that is lightweight, breathable and does not hinder freedom of
movement or restrict the wearer in any way. Some sporting clothing is designed to be
particularly close fitting to provide compression and aid muscle recovery.            It is also
typically brightly coloured for fashion reasons and/or team identification.
[0007]      Popular    fabrics for manufacture      of sporting     clothing   include Lycra@,
Spandex@, often in combination with nylon or polyester. However, these fabrics tend to
rip or tear when subjected to frictional forces.       This leaves the wearer vulnerable to
grazing if they lose balance at speed and slide along a track or playing surface.
Furthermore, the repeated movement of popular fabrics back and forward across the
wearer's skin (eg, against the groin, nipples, arm pits or feet) can cause friction related
blistering, chaffing and irritation of sensitive skin, particularly if the skin has been made
damp and soft by perspiration. This is particularly problematic for long-distance runners
and cyclists.
[0008]      Grazing injury is a destructive process caused by separation of layers of skin
due to mechanical forces.         The skin structure can be traumatized by force applied
perpendicularly to the skin and by shear force in the same plane as the skin. A sports
participant such as a cyclist or horse rider falling at slow or fast speed is at high risk of
suffering grazing injuries to their thighs, back upper buttocks, arms shoulders and upper
back.    Even runners falling at much lower speed are likely to suffer grazing to their
knees, lower back, legs and thighs when they contact the track or roadway. Similarly,
children may suffer grazing when the fall, trip or stumble while running or during other
play activities. Furthermore, due to normal aging processes the elderly often have very
fragile skin and can suffer grazing injuries when their skin rubs against the inner surface
of shoes, other body parts, mobility aids or bed clothes.

                                                 4
Protective Fabrics
[0009]      There are many different types of fabrics designed to protect the human body
from a range of external forces, particularly direct physical or mechanical forces. For
example, as described in US patent 5,008,959, light-weight body armour is made of
woven or non-woven fabric composed of filaments of very high molecular weight
polymers. Bullets impacting on body armour generally do not have sufficient energy and
force to break a significant number of the filaments which make up the armour fabric.
The impact can elongate, distort and deform the fabric, but doing so they expends and
dissipates energy so that there is insufficient energy to penetrate the fabric.          Aramid
polymer filaments and yarns, sold under the trademark Kevlar@, and a polyethylene
material, commercially referred to as Spectra@ have been extensively used in these
types of fabrics. (Kevlar@ is a trade mark of DuPont Corporation; Spectra@ is a trade
mark of Honeywell.)
[0010]      In the past, high performance technical fibre yarns such as those described in
US 5,008,959 were limited to special applications such as protective body armours and
composites in engineering applications.         However, more recently their use has been
expanded to general textile applications.
[0011]      However, physical force associated with the penetrating energy of a bullet is
significantly different to abrasive frictional force and a different type of protective fabric is
required.     US patent 5,918,319 describes protective garments, such as pants and
jackets, incorporating an abrasion-resistant fabric which is suitable for motorcyclists. The
fabric of the invention incorporates a high performance fibre, such as Kevlar@, terried on
a face side of the fabric and residing adjacent to the shell fabric of the garment. The
aramid fibres are thermally stable up to 800 to 900 0F, as compared to cotton which starts
to decompose at 300 to 400 0 F. Additionally, these fibres do not melt like nylon or
polyester fibres. Thus, while the heat and friction generated when sliding on pavement
or other abrasive surface quickly tears away the cotton fabric of the garment, the high
performance aramid fibres maintain their structure and effectively disperse the heat as
the individual terried fibres ride up, around, and over the abrasive surface. However, the
fabrics suitable for motorcyclists are not suitable for athletes because the fabrics are too
heavy, inflexible and do not breath sufficiently.

                                               5
[0012]     US patent 5,210,877 describes outwear garments for cyclists that substantially
protect the wearer from cuts and grazing in the event of a fall or a crash. The outwear
comprises protective fabric        panels  containing abrasion    and    cut resistant high
performance yarn of ultra high molecular weight polyethylene fibre of approximately 215
denier, such as Spectra@ in combination with Lycra@ or other yarns.
[0013]     With all of these past improvements in protective fabrics there is still a need for
new protective fabrics that do not detract from the wearer's comfort or freedom to move
during sporting activities.
SUMMARY OF INVENTION
[0014]     An object of the present invention is to provide an improved fabric system that
is suitable for use in garments.
[0015]     Another object of the present invention is to provide garments comprising the
fabric system that reduce injuries in the event of an accident.
[0016]     A further object of the present invention is to provide a fabric system that can
be fashioned into garments that protect a wearer from frictional forces, particularly in the
event of a fall or other accident.
[0017]     A further object of the present invention is to alleviate at least one
disadvantage associated with the related art.
[0018]     It is an object of the embodiments described herein to overcome or alleviate at
least one of the above noted drawbacks of related art systems or to at least provide a
useful alternative to related art systems.
[0019]     The present invention provides a protective fabric system and apparel utilizing
a novel fabric system to decrease abrasion.         Embodiments of the present invention
include combination of friction resistant fabrics with other types of fabrics. Embodiments
include such fabric systems adapted to reduce friction for example, in shorts, or a bib-

                                               6
short athletic garment useful for cyclists.      Other embodiments include methods of
producing such multi-layer protective fabric systems and apparel.
[0020]     In a first aspect of embodiments described herein there is provided a
composite yarn comprising one or more ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene
(UHMWPE) fibres wrapped around one or more polyurethane-polyurea copolymer fibres.
[0021]     Where used herein the term 'yarn' is intended to refer to one or more
continuous, often plied fibres of natural or man-made material suitable for use in weaving
and knitting to form fabric.
[0022]     In a second aspect of embodiments described herein there is provided a fabric
system    comprising    ultra-high   molecular   weight   polyethylene   (UHMWPE)      yarn,
polyurethane-polyurea copolymer yarn and a further natural or synthetic yarn.
[0023]     Preferably the further yarn is a polyamide, such as the polyamide commonly
referred to as Nylon. For example, the polyamide may be chosen from nylon 6, nylon
6:6, nylon 5:10 or nylon 6:12.
[0024]     Typically the further yarn is 10 to 150 denier, preferably from 30 to 100 denier,
more preferably between 30 and 75 denier.
[0025]     Preferably the fabric system has a first yarn comprising Nylon and a second
yarn comprising a composite of UHMWPE and polyurethane-polyurea copolymer.
[0026]     Typically the polyurethane-polyurea copolymer yarn is between 20 and 40
denier.   The polyurethane-polyurea copolymer yarn is also referred to in the art as
elastane or Spandex@, and is sold under various trade marks including, LycraTM,
ElaspanTM, AceporaTM, CreoraTM, ROICATM, DorlastanTM, LinelTM and ESPATM.               In a
particularly preferred embodiment the polyurethane-polyurea copolymer yarn is CreoraTM
H-350 spandex yarn.
[0027]     Spandex@ fibers suitable for use in the present invention may be produced by
any process known in the art such as melt extrusion, reaction spinning, solution dry

                                                 7
spinning, and solution wet spinning. Solution dry spinning is used to produce over 94.5%
of Spandex fibers. Manufacturing includes an initial step of reacting monomers produce
a prepolymer that is subjected to further reactions and drawn out to make fibers.
Variations in type and amount of low and high power Spandex@ may be used to
achieved different desired results or characteristics.
[0028]     Typically the UHMWPE yarn is between 10 and 250 denier, more preferably
75 and 125 denier, even more preferably between about 50 and 100 denier. Preferably
the UHMWPE yarn is a flat multi filament yarn.
[0029]     The yarn combination can be varied to achieve certain characteristics such as
the desired fabric weight.
[0030]     In another aspect of embodiments described herein there is provided a method
of manufacturing the composite yarn of the present invention comprising the step of
wrapping a UHMWPE yarn around a polyurethane-polyurea copolymer yarn.
[0031]     There are three main ways of wrapping one yarn around another, that is (i) by
air intermingling, (ii) single covering and (iii) double covering. It is also possible to make
any desirable combination of (i), (ii) and/or (iii). Air intermingling is a wrapping process
where the filaments of wrapping yarn intermingle with the core yarn and textured filament
is used for the air intermingling process. Single wrapping is a process where a single
yarn is wrapped around the core yarn.       For double wrapping, two yarns are wrapped in
opposite directions around a core yarn. Usually spun yarns, single filament yarns or flat
multifilament yarns are used in single and double covering methods.
[0032]     Preferably the UHMWPE yarn is wound at a rate of 200 to 800 turns per metre.
The actual winding rate can vary depending on the desired characteristics of the
composite yarn and resultant material. Typically, some of the yarns are S twisted and
others Z twisted. A combination or multi-weave may also be used. In some instances a
combination of S and Z twist, or solely S or Z, or intermingling before S and Z twisting
can provide desired results.

                                               8
[0033]      In a yet further aspect of embodiments described herein there is provided a
method of manufacturing fabric system having a first yarn of nylon and a second yarn
comprising a composite of UHMWPE and polyurethane-polyurea copolymer, the method
comprising the step of knitting the first yarn with the second yarn to create a structure
chosen from the group comprising single jersey plain knit, weft-locknit, cross-miss and
birds-eye knit, or derivatives of these structures such as variations on birds-eye knit.
[0034]      In a particularly preferred embodiment the fibres are woven in a four layered
birdseye structure or any of the structures referred to below as T1 to T5, or derivates of
these, preferably with tuck knits.
[0035]      The preferred embodiment of the method of manufacturing can be varied to
suit to the type of machine being used. For example, if a warp or weft knitting production
machine is used then variants of the abovementioned structures can be used to achieve
yarn having a desired characteristic. If a seamless knitting machine is used, then the
combination may be dictated at least in part by the machine specifications. Furthermore,
each machine has a specific purpose. For example, a SantoniTM seamless machine is
typically used to produce seamless circular knitted fabrics suitable for the legs of trousers
and shorts or sleeves. A 'weft or warp' machine is typically used to produce knitted
fabric which is then cut to provide pieces according to various designs before being
stitched together in a technique known as 'cut and sow'. The machines known as 'weft
and wrap' tend to operate on a much high scale of production.
Garments
[0036]      In another aspect of embodiments described herein there is provided a
garment comprising the composite yarn of the present invention comprising one or more
UHMWPE fibres wrapped around one or more polyurethane-polyurea copolymer fibres.
[0037]      In another aspect of embodiments described herein there is provided a
garment comprising the fabric system of the present invention.
[0038]      The fabric system of the present invention is suitable for use in various
garments including sporting garments and garments for other motion related activities,

                                              9
children's clothing and clothing for the elderly who may need protection from friction and
chaffing.
[0039]      When compared with fabric systems of the prior art, the fabric system of the
present invention is up to 30 times stronger and provides superior wearer protection
against damage from friction, cuts, scrapes, grazes resulting from motion related activity.
The fabric system of the present invention is also breathable, has sufficient elasticity to
provide a comfortable fit and exhibits 'wicking' qualities the cool the wearer's body.
[0040]      The fabric system must be sufficiently flexible, pliable and resilient to readily
conform to the contours of the wearer's body, or a portion of their body, that is intended
to be protected by the fabric system.        It is particularly important that the fabric is
sufficiently flexible, pliable and resilient to be made into a garment which can
substantially envelop the upper torso or lower torso or limbs of a wearer. The fabric
system of the present invention is also softer and smoother than many fabrics of the prior
art.
[0041]      Preferably the fabric system of the present system is incorporated into a
garment in a position where it can protect the parts of a wearer that are sensitive or most
at risk from damage. For example, it may be used in the sleeves and in one or more
back panels of a cyclist's jersey to provide protection to the rider's arms, elbows, and
back if they fall from their bicycle at speed onto a hard or rough surface. Typically, as
the cyclist hits and slides along the surface, the fabric system will disperse heat and
reduce the likelihood of burning. Furthermore the fabric system of the present invention
is up to 30 times stronger than similar systems of the prior art and protects the cyclist
from cuts, grazes and small stones being embedded in the skin.
[0042]      In yet a further aspect of embodiments described herein there is provided a
garment comprising two or more, preferably multiple panels, wherein at least one panel
comprising the fabric system of the present invention.
[0043]      The fabric system of the present invention can be used for construction of an
entire garment, or just parts, such as individual panels. The fabric system of the present
invention can be manufactured to provide any desired fabric weight (typically measured

                                             10
in g.m2 and referred to as GSM levels).         Hence, the fabric system of the present
invention can have a GSM level tailored to provide consistency when it is integrated with
other fabrics in a garment.
[0044]      For example, conventional cycling shorts (knicks) generally have a four, six, or
eight panel construction, elastic ribbing around the bottom of the leg cuffs and the waist,
and additional padding (termed a 'chamois') in the region of the buttocks and crotch.
Preferably the shorts include two panels, each respectively extending from the waist to a
leg cuff that are made of the fabric system of the present invention in order to protect the
wearer's hip and buttocks from grazing.
[0045]      Other aspects and preferred forms are disclosed in the specification and/or
defined in the appended claims, forming a part of the description of the invention.
[0046]      In essence, embodiments of the present invention stem from the realization
that specific high performance fibres can be combined with existing fibres commonly
used in sports clothing to provide improved protection against injuries caused by friction,
particularly grazing.
[0047]     When used as a garment, the fabric system of the present invention provides
advantages including:
       *       reducing damage to human tissue when a wearer comes into contact with a
               hard or tough surface;
       *       providing improved dispersion of heat when a wearer contacts a surface at
               speed;
       *       providing high resistance to tearing or ripping when a wearer contacts a
               surface;
       *       improving protection against injury without significant adverse effect on the
               aerodynamics or weight of the garment;

                                               11
       *        maintaining the positive qualities of sporting clothing including breathability
                and not restricting movement;
       *        having a wide range of applications, from elite athletes to children in
                playgrounds; and
       *        reducing injury generally, with concomitant reduction in time away from the
                sport/ training and medical costs.
[0048]     Further scope of applicability of embodiments of the present invention will
become apparent from the detailed description given hereinafter. However, it should be
understood that the detailed description and specific examples, while indicating preferred
embodiments of the invention, are given by way of illustration only, since various
changes and modifications within the spirit and scope of the disclosure herein will
become apparent to those skilled in the art from this detailed description.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0049]     Further disclosure, objects, advantages and aspects of preferred and other
embodiments of the present application may be better understood by those skilled in the
relevant art by reference to the following description of embodiments taken in conjunction
with the accompanying drawings, which are given by way of illustration only, and thus
are not limitative of the disclosure herein, and in which:
       Figure 1 is a schematic diagram illustrating the operation of a knitting machine
       when fed two yarns simultaneously for plating and indicating the technical back (1)
       and technical face (3);
       Figure 2 illustrates fabric structures in detail as structural notations for (a) plain,
       (b) weft locknit, (c) cross miss and (d) birds eye;
       Figure 3 illustrates the technical back of polyester/nylon fabric having (a) plain, (b)
       weft locknit, (c) cross miss and (d) birds eye fabric structures;

                                              12
       Figure 4 illustrates the technical back of UHMWPE/nylon fabrics having (a) plain,
       (b) weft locknit, (c) cross miss and (d) birds eye fabric structures;
       Figure 5 illustrates a number of plots depicting the results of mean stretch and
       residual extension tests for polyester/nylon (dark shading) and UHMWPE/nylon
       (light shading) where the y-axis refers to percentage; (a) stretch in warp direction,
       (b) stretch in weft direction, (c) residual extension in warp direction, and (d)
       residual extension in the weft direction; and
       Figure 6 includes graphical representations illustrating the mean value of
       coefficient of friction (MIU) and mean deviation of surface roughness (SMD) in
       warp (5) and weft (7) directions for the plain single jersey fabric made of
       UHMWPE/nylon plated fabric.
       Figure 7 is a diagram illustrating the method of manufacture of the composite yarn
       according to the present invention using a double covering method.
       Figure 8 illustrates test results comparing the fabric system of the present
       invention against three prior art fabric systems including plots of survival weft
       (crossways) indicating deterioration time (Fig 8(a)), survival warp (length) and
       deterioration time (Fig 8(b)) and fabric weight (Fig 8(c)).
       Figure 9 illustrates six different knitting       structures, Figures 9(a) to 9(f)
       corresponding to structures T1 to T6.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
Yarns & Fabric
[0050]     The yarns and fabric system of the present invention is suitable for use in
producing fabric, or garments comprising the fabric, or panels for insertion into garments.

                                              13
[0051]     A fabric according to the present invention has been made from composite
yarn and an air textured continuous filament nylon yarn of 75 denier linear density. This
particular yarn is selected for three main reasons:
       1.     when the fabrics relaxing after knitting the textured yarn has the ability to
               add bulkiness to the fabric and for this reason, when it is dyed it provides
               better colour coverage;
       2.      a higher level of cover can be achieved with lower fabric weight using
              textured yarns compared to non- textured yarns; and
       3.     a lower GSM fabric can be achieved. As part of the finishing process the
              fabric can under go several treatments such as 'stretch and set' that have
              the effect of reducing the fabric weight per GSM.
[0052]     The composite yarn preferably comprises one or more different combinations
of 10 to 100 denier UHMWPE flat continuous filament yarn wrapped around an
elongated 20 to 40 denier Spandex low or high power filament yarn.          The 40 denier
Spandex@ yarn tends to provide a higher level of stretch to the fabric system than is
usually required for sporting garments, and typically 20 denier Spandex@ will be more
appropriate. The Spandex@ yarn tends to improve fabric recovery properties, countering
the comparatively poor recovery property of fabric made of UHMWPE (which is due to its
low surface friction). The yarn twist rate for the covered yarn will vary depending on the
desired resultant characteristic and whether it is SC, DC or TC (which is the combination
referred to above).      The covering process it typically either S, Z, intermingling or
combination.
[0053]     In order to achieve different level of finished fabric weights to suit different
requirements, the composite yarn may be varied in weight from 10 Denier up to 100
Denier or more. The level of Spandex@ and the TPM may also vary. A lower denier
UHWMPE can be used with a high tension or low tension Spandex@. As a function of
fabric weight, a low tension Spandex@ will produce a lower GSM fabric with a low TPM.
Hence if a very thin fabric, with high abrasion resistance qualities was required, typically
one would pick a low denier UHWMPE and a low tension spandex, low TPM, with either

                                               14
single covering or double covering. If hand feel was very important, then a DC option
together with the finishing process of 'stretch and setting' would be required.            The
UHWMPE is low level may require intermingling then double covering which may be
termed triple covering.
[0054]     The requirement for hand feel is at least partly dependent on the weight of the
garment. The heavier the garment, the harder the hand feel. The softer the garment the
better the hand feel but the worse lower the abrasion resistance.
[0055]     Samples of the fabric system were made using a Santoni SM8-EVO4 circular
knitting machine, which is a 26 gauge single jersey machine with 16 inch diameter
cylinder and 8 feeders.     During fabric manufacture the step motor position was kept
constant to ensure constant stitch height at production for all fabrics. Yarn input tension
and take down air pressure were also kept constant.              Four fabric structures were
selected - plain single jersey, weft-licknit, cross-miss and birds-eye.
[0056]     The fabrics were double faced, with the nylon yarn becoming the technical
face while the composite yarn was the technical back. The knitting machine was a single
jersey weft knitting machine, hence a plating technique was used for fabric development.
Plating is a knit construction, in which two or more yarns are fed simultaneously. The
second yarn is generally of a different colour or type.      During the knitting process the
second yarn is placed under the first yarn, so that each yarn can be rolled to a specific
side of the fabric. In many cases, one yarn/colour appears on the face of the fabric, and
the other yarn/contrast colour appears on the back. (It is also possible to obtain double
faced fabrics using double jersey weft knitting, warp knitting, and weaving methods.)
[0057]     There are several advantages associated with having double faced fabrics,
including:
        *     Nylon in technical face can be dyed in various colours and is not limited to
              a narrow range of solution dyed colours.                 However,   it is highly
              recommended to control the temperature of the long wet processes such
              as scouring and dyeing at 600C.         Alternatively, it is possible to replace

                                             15
               nylon with any other natural and/or manmade fibre which can be dyed at
               temperatures at or below at 60*C;
        *      the use of DC allows UHWMPE to be covered with nylon (super micro
               fibre) and hidden with the covering yarn taking the dye in addition to
               improving hand feel.       Hand feel can be further improved by other
               commercial means such as stretching and setting;
        *      the finishing process (heat setting) can take place at 140   OC for no more
               than two minutes;
        *      UHMWPE is comparatively inert to chemicals, and has comparatively low
               moisture absorption;
        *      a fabric comprising UHMWPE yarn as an inner layer adjacent a wearer's
               skin and a yarn having better moisture absorption fibre as the outer layer
               will provide better moisture management properties than a fabric made of
               UHMWPE yarn alone.
Fabric Knitting
[0058]     Fabrics according to the present invention may be manufactured using any
suitable knitting machine known in the art, including production weft, warp or seamless
knitting machines such as the machine mentioned above - characterised as a Santoni
SM8-EVO4 circular 26 gauge single jersey machine with 8 feeders and a cylinder of 16
inch diameter. This knitting machine is particularly preferred for development because it
allows the user to select needle-to-needle operations electronically, has a reduced
number of feeders and it provides electronically-controlled stitch regulation by means of
an independent step motor on each feeder and it facilitates multiple-yarn feeding up to
eight yarns with variations in the colour and patterning.
[0059]     Preferably, during operation the stepping-motor position is set constant
ensuring the constant stitch height is maintained during production for all samples. Yarn
input tensions and the take-down air pressure are also kept constant. Two yarns may be

                                                  16
fed simultaneously in the manner illustrated in Figure 1. This method of feeding two or
more yarns simultaneously is called plating. The basic rule of plating is that the yarn fed
nearest to the needle head shows on the reverse side of the needle loop and therefore
shows on the surface of the technical back. The second yarn is in a lower position and
tends to show on the technical face (Spencer, D. J., Knitting Technology: A
comprehensive handbook and practical guide. 3rd ed. 2001, Cambridge, England:
Woodhead Publishing Limited.)
[0060]      Fabric according to the present invention and knitted as described above has
been investigated and the physical properties have been investigated (including physical
properties such as weight, stretch and recovery, optical porosity, comfort, cooling,
surface roughness and surface friction in the wet relaxed state).
[0061]      Several combinations of fabrics were manufactured in two groups.               In one
example a 140 denier air-textured filament Nylon 6.6 yarn was used as the ground yarn
for both groups. For the plate yarn, a 100 denier air-textured filament polyester yarn was
used in the first group of fabrics and a 100 denier flat-filament UHMWPE yarn was used
for the second group of fabrics. Four fabric structures were selected, namely (i) single
jersey plain, (ii) weft-locknit, (iii) cross-miss and (iv) birds-eye.
[0062]      Fabric weight, courses and wales per centimetre, thickness and optical
porosity values for both yarn combinations are presented in Table 1. Even though the
fabrics were manufactured under constant knitting conditions, fabric weight results show
that there is a difference with regards to the knit structure as well as the yarn
combination.      As illustrated in the theoretical structures of Figure 2, structures that
comprise miss stitches should have much longer 'V' shapes on the technical face and
consequently, higher porosity than the plain structure.           In fact in practice it does not
happen that way. In order to carry the held loop over miss stitches and wait until the next
knit stitch comes up, stitches should rob yarns from consecutive stitches. After the wet
process, the fabrics which have reached their wet relaxed status exhibited different
properties between each structure.
[0063]      There is not much difference between a polyester/nylon fabric (fabrics used in
garments today) and its structurally equivalent UHMWPE/nylon fabric.

                                               17
Table 1: Physical properties of finished fabrics
      Yarn         Knit Structure   Weight    Courses    Wales      Thickness    Optical
 combination                         (g/m 2)  (per cm)  (per cm)      (mm)      porosity
                                                                                  (%)
                  PN - Plain          220       18.8       12.6        0.85       7.4
 Polyester/
 Nylon
                  WN - Weft-          242       24.2       13.1        1.02       5.2
                  locknit
                  CM - Cross-         262       30.9       13.5        1.06       4.0
                  miss
                  BE - Birds-eye      263       31.3       13.5        1.06       3.7
 UHMWPE/          PN - Plain          210       16.8       12.9        0.85       7.7
 Nylon
                  WN - Weft-          230       23.8       12.9        0.89       5.0
                  locknit
                  CM - Cross-         246       28.4       12.9        0.92       3.6
                  miss
                  BE - Birds-eye      268       31.9       12.8        0.93       2.6
Fabric Stretch and Residual Extension
[0064]      UHMWPE/nylon fabrics of the present invention appear to have lower
extensibility than polyester/nylon fabrics in the warp direction. This was true of all four
fabrics, (i.e. 25%, 16%, 9% and 29%) in plain, weft-locknit, cross-miss and birds-eye
fabrics respectively.       In the weft direction, stretchability of the UHMWPE/nylon
combination is slightly higher for plain and weft-locknit fabrics (6% and 4%) but 5% and
14%    lower for cross-miss and birds-eye fabrics relative to the polyester/nylon
combination.      Different loop and float structures in the fabrics greatly affected the
stretchability in the weft direction. The higher the successive numbers of miss stitches,
the lower the stretch of the fabric. Though the weft-locknit and cross-miss have similar
numbers of consecutive misses, cross-miss exhibited lower stretch than weft-locknit due
to high and even distribution of miss stitches in the cross-miss fabrics. This same stitch
pattern also imparts high stretch characteristics to the cross-miss fabric as compared to
the other three fabrics in the warp direction.
[0065]      Residual extension for the UHMWPE/nylon yarn combination is always higher
than the polyester/nylon yarn combination in both directions within every knit structure.
In the warp direction, the residual extensions range between 26% and 54% and in the
weft direction they lie between 23% and 61% for the UHMWPE/nylon combination. For

                                            18
the polyester/nylon combination, the residual extensions range between 9% and 27%
and between 8% and 12% in the warp and weft directions respectively. Higher residual
extension values of fabrics made of UHMWPE/nylon make them unfit for apparel fabrics.
Surface Friction and Roughness
Table 2: Surface Roughness and Friction Test Results of Finished Fabrics
     Yarn          Test   Fabric   MIU      Std      MMD       Std     SMD         Std
                direction  code          deviation          deviation          deviation
                          PN      0.412    0.009     0.014    0.001    5.963      0.557
                          WN      0.351    0.016     0.031    0.003   17.380      0.356
               Warp       CM      0.358    0.001     0.012    0.001    9.752      0.348
  Polyester/              BE      0.369    0.004     0.014    0.001   11.192      0.630
  Nylon                   PN      0.239    0.006     0.005    0.003    2.837      0.367
                          WN      0.233    0.004     0.006    0.001    2.898      0.063
               Weft
                          CM      0.216    0.004     0.005    0.001    3.688      0.069
                          BE      0.237    0.006     0.005    0.001    4.113      0.138
                          PN      0.252    0.009     0.020    0.001   12.020      0.851
                          WN      0.259    0.008     0.022    0.002   14.468      0.869
               Warp       CM      0.218    0.018     0.014    0.002    7.152      0.353
  UHMWPE/                 BE      0.254    0.006     0.021    0.003   11.353      0.348
  Nylon                   PN      0.140    0.002     0.008    0.001    7.600      0.610
                          WN      0.117    0.066     0.007    0.001    3.258      0.237
               Weft
                          CM      0.113    0.003     0.009    0.002    3.197      0.301
                          BE      0.185    0.006     0.008    0.001    3.065      0.345
[0066]      Surface roughness and friction were measured on the technical back of the
fabrics, the side which contacts the skin during wear.      Columns of interlocking semi
circles formed by the heads of the needle loops and the bases of the sinker loops
determine the surface properties of the fabric.    In this case, the UHMWPE yarns are
preferentially in contact with the measuring probes of the test equipment.       Figure 6
illustrates the MIU and SMD graphs obtained for UHMWPE/nylon plain fabric in the warp
and weft directions. It can be seen that both surface friction and roughness values are

                                             19
always higher in the warp direction than the weft direction, not only in plain fabric but also
in every other fabric structure (Table 2).
[0067]      It is an advantage of the fabric system of the present invention is that when
compared to fabric systems of the prior art, it has lower friction and roughness on the
wearer's skin, and can thus be used to form more comfortable garments.
[0068]      Figures 3 and 4 show the technical back of the fabrics.          Figure 2 clearly
illustrates the difference in the appearance of textured polyester yarns and flat filament
UHMWPE yarns after wet relaxation of the fabrics. Both Plain fabrics do not differ much
in appearance compared with the other knitted fabrics. The mean coefficient of friction in
the warp direction in polyester/nylon fabrics is always higher when compared to the
equivalent UHMWPE/nylon structure. This observation is replicated in the weft direction
as well. This is attributed to the inherently low coefficient of friction of UHMWPE fibres
as compared with polyester fibres. The shape and length of heads and bases, as well as
the texture of the yarns have definitely affected the SMD values of the fabrics. As an
example, the SMD of plain polyester/nylon fabric in the warp direction is 5.94 but for the
plain UHMWPE/nylon fabric the SMD in the same direction is 12.02.               It seems the
textured yarns are smoothed out more easily than flat filament yarns under the static load
of the probe although their appearance is similar.
Colouring and Dying - Fabric Finishing
[0069]      The fabric system of the present invention can be dyed and coloured in the
same manner as fabrics of the prior art and the appearance is comparable.              Hence
fabrics of the present invention can be combined or integrated with fabrics of the prior art
to give a consistent colour, look and feel.
[0070]      The colouring methods described herein are applied to Nylon.           This dying
process can add weight to the finished fabric, typically by approximately 6%. Any weight
gain through knitting and colourisation is commonly offset by stretch and heat setting.
The weight gain (gsm increase) is normally caused by two factors, (i) the proportion of
Spandex in the fabric (strength of Spandex, that is, whether high or low tension), and (ii)
the amount of dye added during the colourisation process.

                                                 20
[0071]      Scouring and dyeing processes were carried out in the same bath. UHMWPE
has a low heat resistance and its melting temperature is around 15 0 2C.               The critical
temperature for safe use of fibre is at or below         7 0 2C and the fibre tends to lose tensile
strength at higher temperatures.         The entire finishing process can be carried out at
maximum of     6 0 2C.
[0072]     At the start of the dying process, a dye bath was filled with water at a material
to liquor ratio of 1:20 and the temperature was raised to 40 2C. A solution of 1% Albegal
SET and 2g/I Triton X100 was added with thorough stirring.                   Fabric manufactured
according to the present invention was added to the solution and scoured for 15 minutes
at a temperature at 40 2C with occasional stirring.            The dye mixture was prepared by
mixing 0.5% derma fur red RN 150%, 0.5% derma fur yellow RT and 0.5% derma fur
blue BT 200% which are low molecular weight acid dyes supplied by Chemcolour
Industries Australia Pty. Limited. The dye mixture was then added to the scouring bath
left for 15 minutes.     Subsequently, a 0.5% formic acid solution was added and the
temperature was increased to      6 0 2C  within 20 minutes. More 0.5% formic acid solution
was added and left for another 25 minutes at        6 0 2C.   Then the dyed fabrics were rinsed in
cold water and hydro-extracted. Fabrics were dried flat in the drying cabinet, and then
conditioned for 24 hours under standard atmospheric conditions of 20±22C and 65±2%
relative humidity
[0073]     When subjected to a series of tests, fabrics made of UHMWPE/nylon yarns
performed equally as well as polyester/nylon fabrics in terms of surface roughness,
friction and colour. In fact, the performance of cross-miss and birds-eye structures is
better than the performance of the control fabrics in terms of surface roughness and
friction.
Test methods
[0074]     The following standard test methods and modified test methods were used to
evaluate the structural and physical properties and the performance of the fabrics:
                Australian Standard (AS) 2001.2.13-1987 - Determination of mass per
                unit area and mass per unit length of fabrics

                                              21
       *      AS 2001.2.6-2001 - Determination of the number of wales and courses per
              unit length in knitted fabric
       *      AS 2001.2.15-1989 - Determination of thickness of textile fabrics
       *      British Standard (BS) 4952 1992 - Methods of test for elastic fabrics
                      2.1- Determination of extension at a specified force
                      2.4 - Determination of residual extension
       *      Optical porosity
[0075]     Microscopic images were obtained with the light coming normally through the
porous area of the fabric from below to calculate optical porosity. Motic trinocular zoom
microscope together with the Motic image plus2.0 software was used. These images
were processed using Imagetool software to calculate the percentages of black and
white pixels of the images in which black pixels represented the area covered with yarns
and white pixels represented the porous area.
                   Optical porosity =             white pixels       X1 00%
                                         black pixels + white pixels
Test for impact abrasion resistance
[0076]    A test method was developed in order to assess the impact abrasion
resistance of the fabrics. The European standard EN13595-2:2002 is a test method that
has been developed to determine the impact abrasion resistance of protective clothing
including jackets, trousers and one piece or divided suits for professional motorcycle
riders. This test method was referred and modified as suitable to test light weight, thin
(thickness is approximately 1mm or less) knitted fabrics.

                                              22
[0077]     This method was modified only slightly. The weight at impact we reduced to
2kg as this enabled the current available industry garments to record a destruction time.
To further help this a 60 grit belt was used.
[0078]     The speed of the test machine was 28km/h + as per the European standard.
Test for surface friction and roughness
[0079]     KES-FB4 AUTO A Kawabata friction and roughness evaluation method is used
to objectively measure the feel of a fabric, when the fabric is picked and stroked between
fingers. This test method was used to assess surface properties of the technical back of
the fabrics.
        MIU = 1 f p - dx                                 (Equation 2.1)
                x
        MMD    =     f  p-I  I dx                        (Equation 2.2)
                  x
        SMD   =  _1_   | T -T | dx                       (Equation 2.3)
                  x
[0080]     Three main parameters MIU, MMD, SMD can be obtained directly using the
software that has been integrated with the test equipment.        MIU represents the mean
coefficient of friction measured over 20mm length forward and backward and MMD
represents the mean deviation of p from the average.            SMD represents the mean
deviation of the thickness measured in micrometres. Equations 2.1, 2.2 and 2.3 are the
three mathematical fundamentals for MIU, MMD and SMD.               The speed of both the
roughness and friction probes was 1mm/sec. The static load for the friction probe was
50g and for the roughness probe was 1Og. 400g force was the initial tension used on all
the samples.
Test for moisture management properties
[0081]     Liquid moisture transfer properties of fabrics can be evaluated using moisture
management tester (MMT). There are two concentric moisture sensors i.e. upper and

                                               23
lower sensor in the instrument. The test fabric should be placed on the lower sensor and
upper sensor should be lowered carefully as both sensors touch the fabric. A constant
amount of synthetic sweat is introduced onto the upper side of the fabric, which is the
skin side. The spread of the solution will be in three ways.
        1.     Spread outward on the upper surface of the fabric
        2.     Transfer through the fabric to the bottom surface
        3.     Spread outward on the lower surface of the fabric
[0082]      These movements of moisture will be sensed and measured by the upper and
lower moisture sensors.
[0083]      Fabrics can be categorized in to seven different types based on the MMT
results, in terms of liquid moisture transfer properties, and they are as follows:
        1.     Water proof fabric
        2.     Water repellent fabric
        3.     Slow absorbing and slow drying fabric
       4.      Fast absorbing and slow drying fabric
        5.     Fast absorbing and quick drying fabric
        6.     Water penetration fabric
        7.     Moisture management fabric[25]
[0084]      Moisture management        properties are considered only as a secondary
requirement for this project. The objective of this study is to place the developed fabrics
in the strategic places of garments for improved protection.        So these fabrics do not

                                              24
necessarily have to have better moisture management properties. The test results were
used to compare the properties of the commercial fabrics and the developed fabrics.
[0085]     The fabric system of the present invention was equal to the currently available
sporting garments available on the market today which is rating 5.
Comparison With Prior Art Garments
[0086]     The fabric system of the present invention has been tested against the
following three fabric systems of the prior art:
        1.    cycling knicks from Bio-Racer@ with Dyneema pad inserted;
        2.    the fabric disclosed in US Patent 5 210, 877; and
        3.    the thermo-regulating, cut resistant yarn and fabric described in US patent
              application 2011/0300366 and the cut resistant composite yarn described
              in US patent application 2012/0060563 Al.
1.      Comparison with BioRacer@
[0087]     The fabric system of the present invention was tested in a 'like for like'
comparison with Bio-Racer@ cycling knicks including a Dyneema pad which was stitched
into the corners of the shorts for extra protection.
[0088]     A comparison of the two fabric systems is provided in Table 3.

                                               25
Table 3: 'Like for like' comparison with Bio-Racer@ knicks
                          Fabric System -       present  Bio-Racer     Fabric    -  Dyneema
                          invention                      Knicks
Layer configuration       A single layer of fabric       Double layers of fabric (insertion
                                                         of a pad)
Structure and yarn        Weft knit - Single jersey      Inner fabric - weft knit double
combination               birds eye structure            jersey (Interlock structure)
                          Technical face - nylon (75d)   Technical face - spandex covered
                                                         nylon
                          Technical back -               Technical back - micro fibre
                          spandex(40d) covered           Dyneema (according to the
                          UHMWPE (100d)                  advertisement)
                                                         Outer fabric - warp Knitted 80/20
                                                         nylon/lycra
Weight (g/m 2)            365                            Inner -325
                                                         Outer -220
                                                                              Total - 545
Thickness (mm)            1.23                           1.76
Stretch (%)               Warp - 95                      Warp - 58
                          Weft - 97                      Weft - 107
Residual extension        Warp - 22                      Warp - 10
(%)                       Weft - 21                      Weft - 29
Abrasion time (s)         3.36 (3.00 < 230 -             3.87
                          300gsm))
[0089]     In summary, the Bio-Racer fabric system is different to the fabric system of the
present invention. The pad can not be dyed or coloured and also limits the movement/
recovery and the wicking of the garment.
[0090]    The fabric system of the present invention has greater stretch and residual
extension overall. The abrasion time for the Bio-Racer fabric is higher but the fabric is
also thicker; the fabric of the present invention offering a higher protection rate per unit
GSM.

                                              26
2.      Comparison with the fabric of US 5,210,877
[0091]     US patent 5,210,877 describes outwear garments for cyclists comprising
protective fabric panels comprising high performance yarn of ultra high molecular weight
polyethylene fibre of approximately 215 denier, such as Spectra@ in combination with
Lycra@ or other yarns such as those of wool, or acrylic, nylon, polyester, spandex or
other natural or manmade fibre. The panels typically comprise separate, single layer,
light weight, abrasion resistant, woven, knit or knit-woven protective fabric.
[0092]     The fabric system of the present invention provides the benefits set out in
Table 4 when compared to the fabric system disclosed in US patent 5,210,877:
Table 4: Comparison with US patent 5,210,877
                  Fabric System - present invention          US patent 5,210,877
  UV Stability    Does not include Spectra or Kevlar,        Spectra break downs in the
                  and remains stable in direct contact       direct sunlight,
                  with sunlight
Weight            360 GSM (Max), and can be reduced          Not disclosed. Estimated 500+
                  below 300 GSM                              GSM
  Friction        Friction resistance (decay) time of 3.7s   Not disclosed. Estimated 1 to
  Resistance      at 360 GSM, and 3s at > 300 GSM.           1.2 s
                  Can be reduced to approx. 250-280
                  denier without affecting results.
Structure         Lower GSM in a complete structure          The Spectra used is a minimum
                  which allows integration with many         of 215gsm, hence depending
                  other or similar UHWMPE fibres             on knit structure will typically be
                                                             at 400GSM or greater. Too
                                                             heavy for integration with most
                                                             sports fabrics.

                                               27
Breathability     Softer, cooler                             Following from comments
                                                             above - will increase wearer's
                                                             core temperature, but reduces
                                                             wicking and natural cooling.
Comfort        & Less friction on the skin &
Feel              subsequently more comfortable
  Colour          Able to be coloured and dyed, enabling     Spectra is orange and cannot
                  integration into all types of garments.    be dyed hence cannot be
                                                             readily colour integrated or
                                                             printed with sponsor logos/
                                                             advertising. Any fashion
                                                             colouring or styling will be
                                                             limited.
    Elasticity    Greater elasticity. Greater stretch and
                  return; good resistance in both weft
                  and warp directions
                                                             Testing results for the US
                                                             5210,877 patent under the
                                                             same conditions are around
                                                             1sec. The GRT Fabric system,
                                                             which is significantly thinner, is
                                                             300 to 400% better.
3.     Comparison with the fabric of US-2011/0300366 and US-2012/0060563
[0093]     US patent applications 2011/0300366 and 2012/0060563 Staple fibres of
coolmax and UHMWPE have been spun into a yarn, using ring spinning method to
develop a thermo-regulating, cut resistant yarn.          Table 5 below shows different
percentages of fibres used to develop experimental yarns and fabrics. These yarns may
also contain an elastomeric filament.       Fabrics can be woven, knitted, non-woven and
combinations.    These fabrics claimed to be used for clothing items such as gloves,
aprons, chaps, pants, shirts, jackets, coats, socks, undergarments, vests and hats and
have improved thermo-regulating properties and cut resistant.

                                              28
Table 5: Comparative testing
      Fabric types               UHMWPE %             Polyester (coolmax) %
 Comparative 1                       100                         0
 Experiment 1                         10                        90
 Experiment 2                        25                         75
 Experiment 3                        50                         50
 Experiment 4                        75                         25
 Comparative 2                        0                         100
Further benefits of the fabric system of the present invention are set out in Table 6.
Table 6:
  Fabric types            Yarn 1              Yarn 2          Yarn 3         Machine type
 Comparative       440dtex               78dtex     nylon 11 Odtex lycra   13 gauge
 Example 1         UHMWPE                (solution dyed)                   (needles per
                                                                            nch) knitting
                                                                            machine
 Experiment 1      440dtex               78dtex     nylon 11 Odtex lycra   13 gauge
                   composite yarn        (solution dyed)                   <nitting machine
                   5% mineral fibre
                   95% UHMWPE
 Experiment 2      440dtex               156dtex    nylon 110dtex lycra    13 gauge
                   composite yarn        (solution dyed)                   <nitting machine
                   5% mineral fibre
                   95% UHMWPE
 Comparative       220dtex               65dtex     nylon 36dtex lycra     18 gauge
 Example 2         UHMWPE                (solution dyed)                   <nitting machine
 Experiment 3      220dtex               65dtex     nylon 36dtex lycra     18 gauge

                                               29
                   composite yarn         (solution dyed)                      knitting machine
                   5% mineral fibre
                   95% UHMWPE
[0094]     The composite yarns described in US-2011/0300366 and US-2012/0060563
have been manufactured using a double covering method as depicted in Figure 7. In this
manufacturing process the nylon yarn (10) is been wrapped around the elongated Lycra
yarn (12) in S direction, then dyed nylon yarn (14) is been wrapped around in Z direction
to cover the un-dyeable yarn (10). Several knitted fabrics has been prepared and tested
using these composite yarns.
[0095]     As per the test results set out in Table 7, cut resistance of fabrics that have
been developed using 5% mineral fibres and 95% UHMWPE have strength increased by
3 to 3.5 times compared to fabric made with 100% UHMWPE.
Table 7: Comparison with US patent applications 2011/0300366 and 2012/0060563
                         Fabric System - present                US patent applications
                                  invention                 2011/0300366 & 2012/0060563
    Use                 Mainly friction resistant         Mainly stab/cut resistant. Not
                                                          typically used for sporting
                                                          applications
  Weight               Thinner, lighter weight, thus      Bulkier, thicker, thus difficult to
                       easier to integrate with other     integrate with other materials.
                       materials. Lower GSM               Higher GSM.
  Breathability                                           Thicker and heavier therefore
                                                          wicking and cooling not as
                                                          efficient.
  Colouring            Can be extensively coloured         Can be coloured to some extent
[0096]      Many fabrics of the prior art have been developed for specific purposes, such
as protecting soldiers, fire fighters or police during the course of their work.            These
fabrics have been designed to provide protection against projectiles such as bullets,
sharp weapons such as knives, or impact such as a blow from a baton.                      Fabrics

                                              30
developed for these types of purposes are typically very thick and heavy. For example,
Kevlar or Dyneema fabric used as inserts in trousers for motorcyclists weighs more than
600g/M 2, and Kevlar bullet proof vests are very thick. Many of the fabrics of the prior art
have a limited life span as they are sensitive to UV light and the colours of high
performance fibre products are limited mostly to yellow, white and black, because they
are unable to be dyed and cannot receive a printed a logo or other advertising indicia.
Furthermore, the fabrics of the prior art have significant drawbacks in terms of moisture
management, weight, wicking, heat transfer management, ability to be integrated into
garments without detracting from the look and feel, and comfort for the everyday user.
[0097]     The aforementioned prior art fabrics have significant benefits when used for
their intended purpose, but cannot successfully be adapted for use in general apparel or
garments for high activity such as playing sport. They are not typically suitable for those
playing sport, athletes, children or the elderly.
[0098]     The fabric system of the present invention was further tested and compared
with the following commercially available fabrics used for sporting applications:
        *      Commercial Fabric 1 - fabric used in summer sports garments such as
               running shorts or pants, cycling shorts or pants;
        *      Commercial Fabric 2 - fabric used in a winter sports garment such as a
               long pair of running pants (thicker for warmth), or a longer pair of cycling
               pants or jersey; and
        *      Test Fabric 3 produced with regular knit and used for protection, similar to
               the fabric described in US patent 5,210,877.
[0099]     The testing results comparing weight and time to deterioration of both the weft
and warp are set out in Table 8 and Figures 8(a) to 8(c).

                                             31
Table 8: Comparisons
                        Yarns Used                         Combination Details
  A        Commercial Fabric 1                    General Single Layer Fabric
  B        Commercial Fabric 2                    "Winter" Multiple Layer Fabric
                                                  140   denier   Nylon   & 100    denier
  C        Nylon/UHMWPE                           UHMWPE
                                                  75    denier    Nylon,    100   denier
  D        Nylon/UHMWPE/Spandex                   UHMWPE & 40 denier Spandex
           Survival Weft (cross ways)             Time to deteriorate : seconds
  A        Commercial Fabric 1                    0.1
  B        Commercial Fabric 2                    0.1
  C        Test Fabric 3                          0.28
  D        Fabric System - Present invention      1.375
           Survival Warp (length)                 Time to deteriorate : seconds
  A        Commercial Fabric 1                    0.1
  B        Commercial Fabric 2                    0.1
  C        Test Fabric 3                          1.1
           Fabric System - Present invention
  D        (minimum)                              3.35 up to >6
           Weight                                 GSM
  A        Commercial Fabric 1                    210
  B        Commercial Fabric 2                    300
  C        Test Fabric 3                          300
  D        Fabric System - Present invention      230 to 360
[0100]     As can be seen from Table 8, the fabric system of the present invention is
significantly better by a factor of 3, when compared with the Test Fabric 3, and 30 to 40
times better than the two commercial fabrics tested.

                                            32
[0101]     The tested weight of fabric system of the present invention was slightly higher
than Commercial Fabric 1 to higher than Test Fabric 3. The tests have revealed that the
fabric system of the present invention can lower the GSM to below 300, which is lower
than Test Fabric 3, or the winter weight sports garment, but is similar to summer weight
thin garments or garments such as running tights. This still provides results 3 to 4 times
better then the Test Fabric 3 and 30 to 40 times better than the two Commercial Fabrics
when comparing like to like.
Additional Yarn Combinations
[0102]     In addition to the fibres and fabrics described above the following additional
combinations were tested:
     *       Al - 50 Denier UHWMPE with DC low power Spandex@ & Nylon 75 Denier
     *       A2 - 50 Denier UHWMPE with DC high power Spandex@ & Nylon 75 Denier
     *       A3 - 50 Denier UHWMPE with SC low power Spandex@ & Nylon 75 Denier
     *       A4 - 50 Dener UHWMPE with SC high power Spandex@ & Nylon 75 Denier
     *       A5 - 50 Denier UHWMPE with DC low power Spandex@ & Nylon Super
             Micro Fibre
     *       A6 - 50 Denier UHWMPE with DC high power Spandex@ & Nylon Super
             Micro Fibre
     *       A7 - 50 Denier UHWMPE with SC low power Spandex@ & Nylon Super
             Micro Fibre
     *       A8 - 50 Denier UHWMPE with SC high power Spandex@ & Nylon Super
             Micro Fibre
     *       A9 - 30 Denier UHWMPE with DC low power spandex & Nylon Super Micro
             Fibre

                                             33
     *       A10 - 30 Denier UHWMPE with DC high power Spandex@ & Nylon Super
             Micro Fibre
     *       Al1 - 30 Denier UHWMPE with TC low power Spandex@x & Nylon Super
             Micro Fibre
     *       A12 - 30 Denier UHWMPE with TC high power Spandex@ & Nylon Super
             Micro Fibre
[0103]     The abbreviation 'DC' refers to UHWMPE and Nylon Super Micro Fibre, and
'TC' refers to UHWMPE and 2 x Nylon Super Micro Fibre
[0104]     All 12 new additional combinations provided results 30x greater than current
commercially available yarns, subject to application. Table 9 sets out testing results for
the fabrics, based on T5 structure:
Table 9:
 Fabrics              Weight GSM              Structure             Time to Deteroriate
 Al to A4             269 GSM                 T5                    6.0 + seconds
 A5 to A8             244 GSM                 T5                    6.0 + seconds
 A9 to A12            220GSM                  T5                    3.5 + seconds
[0105]     Fabrics Al to A4 were thicker and heavier than the other fabrics and provided
the highest level of resistance independent of knitting structure. Fabrics A5 to A8 were
not as thick, with the SC being slightly lighter weight, however better hand feel was
achieved with the DC fabrics. Fabrics A9 to Al 2 were lighter than the other fabric, and
exhibited lower resistance, but the resistance was still 30 times greater than
commercially available equivalents and the hand feel was significantly better.
[0106]     Further testing was also conducted on the knitting structures, using structures
Ti to T6 illustrated in Figures 9(a) to 9(f), which were all formed of eight feeds and
correspond to the following unit cell sizes:

                                              34
        *     T1 -2x2
        *     T2-2x4
        *     T3-4x2
        *     T4-4x4
        *     T5-2x4
        *     T6 - single jersey, 1 x 1
[0107]     The structures T5, T1, T3 and T2 produced the most optimal results across all
the samples tested. Specifically, they exhibited the lightest weight, highest resistance,
best hand feel, greatest utility and were the most wearable fabrics.
[0108]     While   this invention has been        described    in   connection with specific
embodiments thereof, it will be understood that it is capable of further modification(s).
This application is intended to cover any variations uses or adaptations of the invention
following in general, the principles of the invention and including such departures from
the present disclosure as come within known or customary practice within the art to
which the invention pertains and as may be applied to the essential features
hereinbefore set forth.
[0109]     As the present invention may be embodied in several forms without departing
from the spirit of the essential characteristics of the invention, it should be understood
that the above described embodiments are not to limit the present invention unless
otherwise specified, but rather should be construed broadly within the spirit and scope of
the invention as defined in the appended claims. The described embodiments are to be
considered in all respects as illustrative only and not restrictive.
[0110]     Various modifications and equivalent arrangements are intended to be
included within the spirit and scope of the invention and appended claims. Therefore,
the specific embodiments are to be understood to be illustrative of the many ways in
which the principles of the present invention may be practiced. In the following claims,

                                              35
means-plus-function clauses are intended to cover structures as performing the defined
function and not only structural equivalents, but also equivalent structures. For example,
although a nail and a screw may not be structural equivalents in that a nail employs a
cylindrical surface to secure wooden parts together, whereas a screw employs a helical
surface to secure wooden parts together, in the environment of fastening wooden parts,
a nail and a screw are equivalent structures.
[0111]      "Comprises/comprising"      and   "includes/including"   when    used    in  this
specification is taken to specify the presence of stated features, integers, steps or
components but does not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other
features, integers, steps, components or groups thereof. Thus, unless the context clearly
requires otherwise, throughout the description and the claims, the words 'comprise',
'comprising', 'includes', 'including' and the like are to be construed in an inclusive sense
as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the sense of 'including,
but not limited to'.

                                            36
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.      A composite yarn       comprising one   or more     ultra-high molecular weight
polyethylene fibres wrapped around one or more polyurethane-polyurea copolymer
fibres wherein the one or more polyurethane-polyurea copolymer fibres are between 20
and 40 denier.
2.      A composite yarn according to claim 1 wherein the ultra-high molecular
weight polyethylene fibre is between 10 and 250 denier, preferably between 75 and 125
denier.
3.      A fabric comprising the composite yarn of any one of the preceding claims and a
further natural or synthetic yarn.
4.      A fabric according to claim 3 wherein the further yarn is a polyamide
chosen from the group nylon 6, nylon 6:6, nylon 5:10 or nylon 6:12.
5.      A fabric according to claim 3 wherein the further yarn is between 10 and 150
denier, preferably between 20 and 75 denier.
6.      A method of manufacturing the composite yarn of claim 1 comprising the step
of wrapping one or more ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene fibres around one or
more polyurethane- polyurea copolymer fibres.
7.      A method of manufacturing the composite yarn according to claim 6 wherein the
ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene fibres are wrapped around the polyurethane
polyurea copolymer fibres at a rate of between 200 and 800 turns per metre.
8.      A method of manufacturing the composite yarn according to claim 6 wherein the
ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene fibres are S twisted fibres.
9.      A method of manufacturing the composite yarn according to claim 6 wherein the
ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene fibres are Z twisted fibres.

                                              37
10.     A method of manufacturing the composite yarn according to claim 6 wherein at
least some of the ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene fibres are S twisted fibres
and at least some of the some of the ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene fibres are
Z twisted.
11.     A method of manufacturing the composite yarn according to claim 6 wherein the
wrapping is by air intermingling, single covering, double covering or combinations
thereof.
12.     A method of manufacturing a fabric having a first yarn of nylon and a second
yarn comprising the composite yarn of claim 1, the method comprising the step of
knitting the first yarn with the second yarn to create a structure chosen from the group
comprising single jersey plain knit, weft-locknit, cross-miss and birds-eye knit.
13.     A garment comprising the composite yarn of any one of claim 1 or claim 2.
14.     A garment comprising the fabric of any one of claims 3 to 5.
15.     A garment according to claim 13 and having at least two panels wherein at
least one of the panels comprises the fabric of claim 3.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/9

                            2/9
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              FIGURE 3(a)         FIGURE 3(b)
              FIGURE 3(c)         FIGURE 3(d)
              FIGURE 4(a)         FIGURE 4(b)
              FIGURE 4(c)         FIGURE 4(d)

                  3/9
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              FIGURE 5(a)
              FIGURE 5(b)

                  4/9
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              FIGURE 5(c)
              FIGURE 5(d)

                  5/9
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              FIGURE 6(a)
              FIGURE 6(b)

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      6/9
FIGURE 7

                  7/9
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              FIGURE 8(a)
              FIGURE 8(b)
              FIGURE 8(c)

                  8/9
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              FIGURE 9(a)
              FIGURE 9(b)
              FIGURE 9(c)

                  9/9
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              FIGURE 9(d)
              FIGURE 9(e)
              FIGURE 9(f)

