                                            Abstract
         A seal assembly for sealing a fluid passageway from contaminants, the fluid
passageway formed by a rotating shaft entering an opening in a housing, the fluid passageway
connecting an interior of the housing and an exterior of the housing, the seal assembly
comprising: a stationary member surrounding the shaft and affixed to the housing; a rotatable
member secured to an adjacent portion of the shaft, the rotatable member and the stationary
member forming at least a portion of the fluid passage connecting the interior of the housing to
the exterior of the housing; a first sealing member having an inner diameter surrounding the
rotating shaft and a second sealing member having an inner diameter surrounding the rotating
shaft, the first and second sealing members dividing the fluid passage into an interior section
exposed to the interior of the housing, an open section exposed to the exterior, and a sealed
section fluidly sealed between the interior section and the open section, wherein the length of
the inner diameter of the first sealing member is a different length of the inner diameter of the
second sealing member; and a sensor disposed within the sealed section, the sensor detecting
the contaminants within the sealed section.

                                SHAFT SEAL ASSEMBLY WITH
                             CONTAMINANT DETECTION SYSTEM
                    CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
         [0001] This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/889,411
filed on October 10, 2013, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
                                       TECHNICAL FIELD
         [0002] This disclosure relates to seal assemblies for use with rotating equipment, and in
particular, to a shaft seal assembly and system for monitoring the integrity of the seal assembly.
                                         BACKGROUND
         [0003] Shaft sealing devices are commonly used to protect the integrity of the bearing
environments in various types of rotating equipment. Many of these sealing devices, however,
can quickly wear out and fail. After such failure, contaminants, such as, for example, moisture,
oftentimes migrate into the bearing lubrication reservoir (i.e., the isolated side of the sealing
device) resulting in damage to the rotating equipment.
         [0004] Methods are currently used in industry to detect moisture/contaminants on the
isolated side of a seal, which notifies a user that the seal integrity has been lost or otherwise
compromised.      For example when using a mechanical seal to separate an oil filled bearing
assembly of a submersible pump from ingress of the pumped media (i.e., water), a sensor is
placed in the oil.     The detection of moisture in the oil triggers an alarm.     For grease filled
assemblies, positioning a sensor in the grease oftentimes fails to detect the presence of
contaminates. Furthermore, it is common for clean grease to cover the sensing device during
initial operation, thereby preventing contaminates from contacting and thus triggering the sensor.
Even if the sensors are triggered when the lubricating media is contaminated, the negative effects
and damage on the bearings or other components on the isolated side of the seal are likely to
have already occurred.
                                                  1

                                              SUMMARY
         [0005] In a first aspect, there is provided a seal assembly for sealing a fluid passageway
from contaminants. The fluid passageway is formed by a rotating shaft entering an opening in a
housing.    The fluid passageway connects an interior of the housing and an exterior of the
housing. The seal assembly includes a first sealing member and a second sealing member, which
divides the fluid passage into an interior section, which is exposed to the interior of the housing,
an open section, which is exposed to the exterior, and a sealed section, which is fluidly sealed
between the interior section and the open section. A sensor is disposed within the sealed section
and is configured to sense the contaminants within the sealed section.
         [0006] In certain embodiments, the seal assembly further includes a stationary member
surrounding the shaft and is affixed to the housing.         The seal assembly further includes a
rotatable member, which is secured to an adjacent portion of the shaft. The rotatable member
and the stationary member dividing the fluid passage connecting the interior of the housing to the
exterior of the housing.
         [0007] In other certain embodiments, first sealing member is secured between the
rotatable member and the stationary member.
         [0008] In yet another embodiment, the stationary member and the rotatable member are
intermeshed to form a labyrinth in the fluid passageway.
         [0009] In still another embodiment, the labyrinth is the first sealing member.
         [0010] In certain embodiments, the second sealing member is secured to the stationary
member.
         [0011] In other certain embodiments, the first and second sealing members are secured to
the stationary member.
         [0012] In yet another embodiment, the rotatable member is a finger.
                                                   2

        [0013] In still another embodiment, a port formed in the stationary portion extending
from the labyrinth through the stationary portion such that during rotation of the movable
member, contaminants exit the labyrinth through the port prior to entering the sealed section.
        [0014] In certain embodiments, the first sealing member is an elastomeric sealing ring
and the second sealing member is an elastomeric sealing ring.
        [0015] In other embodiments, the shaft couples a motor to a pump.
        [0016] In other certain embodiments, the sensor is electronically coupled to a controller,
which is configured to send an alarm signal indicating the detection of a contaminant.
        [0017] In yet another embodiment, the sensor is secured to the stationary member and
extends into an annular recess formed in the stationary member.
        [0018] In still another embodiment, the sensor detects moisture.
        [0019] In certain embodiments, the housing includes a bearing cavity.
        [0020] In other certain embodiments, the housing includes a bearing cavity in a motor for
a pump.
        [0021] In a second aspect, there is provided a motor for a pump that includes a housing
and a rotatable shaft extending through an opening in the housing. The motor further includes a
seal assembly surrounding the shaft and sealing against contaminants outside the housing at the
opening. The seal assembly includes a stationary member surrounding the shaft and affixed to
the housing. A rotatable member is secured to an adjacent portion of the shaft, the rotatable
member and the stationary member forming a fluid passage connecting an interior of the housing
to an exterior of the housing. A first sealing member and a second sealing member divide the
fluid passage into an interior section, which is exposed to the interior of the housing, an open
section, which is exposed to the exterior of the housing, and a sealed section disposed between
and sealed from the interior section and the open section. At least one sensor is disposed within
the sealed section and is configured to sense the contaminants within the sealed section.
                                                  3

         [0022] In certain embodiments, the stationary member and the rotatable member are
intermeshed with each other to form a labyrinth in the fluid passageway.
         [0023] In other certain embodiments, a port is formed in the stationary member and
extends from the labyrinth through the stationary member such that during rotation of the
rotatable member, contaminants exit labyrinth through the port prior to entering the sealed
section.
         [0024] In yet another embodiment, the labyrinth is the first sealing member.
         [0025] In still another embodiment, the at least one sensor is a sensor to detect moisture.
         [0026] In other certain embodiments, the at least one sensor is electronically coupled to a
controller configured to send a signal notifying the detection of the contaminants in the sealed
section.
         [0027] In yet another embodiment, the at least one sensor is secured to the stationary
member and extends into an annular recess formed in the stationary member.
         [0028] In still another embodiment, the first and second sealing members are secured to
the stationary member to form the sealed section.
         [0029] In certain embodiments, the first sealing member is secured to between the
stationary member and a rotatable member; the second sealing member is secured to the
stationary member.
         [0030] In other certain embodiments, the housing includes a bearing cavity.
         [0031] In a third aspect, there is provided a method for securing a seal assembly to a
motor housing. The seal assembly seals a rotating shaft entering the housing from contaminants.
The method includes securing a stationary member to the housing to surround the rotating shaft.
A rotatable member is secured to an adjacent portion of the rotating shaft for rotation therewith.
The rotatable member is positioned adjacent the stationary member to form a fluid passage
therebetween.    The fluid passage connects an interior of the housing and an exterior of the
housing. A first sealing member and a second sealing member are provided to sealingingly
                                                  4

divide the fluid passage into an interior section, an open section, and a sealed section.       The
interior section is exposed to the interior of the housing, the open section is exposed to an
exterior of the housing and the sealed section is disposed between the interior section and the
open section. A sensor is positioned in the sealed section to sense contaminants in the sealed
section.
         [0032] In certain embodiments, the rotatable member and the stationary member are
formed such that they are intermeshed and form a labyrinth in the fluid passageway.
         [0033] In other certain embodiments, providing the first sealing member includes
forming the labyrinth in the open section.
         [0034] In yet another embodiment, the method includes machining at least one chamber
in the stationary member to house the sensor.
         [0035] In still another embodiment, positioning the sensor in the sealed section includes
positioning a sensor for detecting moisture in the sealed section.
         [0036] In certain embodiments, the method further includes coupling the moisture sensor
to a controller, which is configured to send a signal notifying the detection of a contaminant.
         [0037] In other certain embodiments, providing the first sealing member comprises
providing the elastomeric sealing ring and providing the second sealing member comprises
providing an elastomeric sealing ring.
         [0038] In yet another embodiment, providing the first and second sealing members
includes securing the first and second sealing members on the stationary member to sealingly
engage the rotatable shaft.
         [0039] In still another embodiment, providing the first and second sealing members
includes securing the first sealing member between the stationary member and the rotatable
member and a second sealing member to the stationary member.
         [0040] In yet another embodiment, securing a rotatable member to an adjacent portion of
the rotating shaft includes securing a finger to the rotating shaft.
                                                  5

         [0041] In a fourth aspect, there is provided a method for detecting the loss of seal
integrity. The seal has a first sealing member and the second sealing member spaced apart from
the first sealing member and forming a sealed section for sealing a bearing cavity against
contaminants.    The method includes monitoring the sealed section with a sensor to detect the
presence of contaminants in the sealed section.
         [0042] In certain embodiments, detecting the presence of contaminants includes detecting
moisture in the sealed section.
         [0043] In other certain embodiments, monitoring the sealed section includes detecting the
presence of moisture after the moisture reaches the first sealing member and prior to moisture
entering the bearing cavity.
         [0044] In yet another embodiment, in response to detecting the presence of contaminants,
an alert is generated to communicate a loss of seal integrity.
         [0045] Other aspects, features, and advantages will become apparent from the following
detailed description when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, which are part
of this disclosure and which illustrate, by way of example, principles of the disclosure.
                                                 6

                             DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
        [0046] FIG. 1 is a schematic side view of a roto-dynamic pump system with a
contaminant detection system.
        [0047] FIG. 2A is a cross-sectional side view of a seal assembly having the contaminant
detection system.
        [0048] FIG. 2B is a close-up view of the seal assembly illustrated in FIG. 2A.
        [0049] FIG. 2C is a cross-sectional view of the seal assembly illustrated in FIG. 2B taken
along the line 2C-2C.
        [0050] FIG. 3 is a cross-sectional side view of an additional embodiment of the seal
assembly configured to detect contaminants.
                                                7

                                  DETAILED DESCRIPTION
        [0051] FIG. 1 is a schematic view of a roto-dynamic pump system 100 in which a seal
assembly 115 employs a contaminant detection system 101 to detect the presence of
contaminants and thus a loss of integrity of the seal assembly 115 prior to the contaminants
entering and contaminating a sealed region. In the embodiment illustrated in FIG. 1, the pump
system 100 includes a pump 105, such as, for example, a centrifugal pump, for pumping fluids
from a fluid inlet 102 through a fluid outlet 104. A motor 130 disposed inside a housing 120
drives the pump 105 via a rotating shaft 110 that extends through an opening 112 in the motor
housing 120.
        [0052] As depicted in FIG. 1, the shaft 110 is supported for rotational movement in the
housing 120 by a pair of bearings 142 and 144.       The seal assemblies 115 and a second seal
assembly 116 are utilized to seal lubricants within bearing lubrication chambers 140 and prevent
contamination.    For example, the seal assembly 115 is secured to the housing 120 to prevent
and/or otherwise substantially eliminate the likelihood of contaminants entering the housing 120
and lubrication chamber 140, and thus, contaminating and potentially causing damage to the
bearing 144.    As explained in greater detail below, the contaminant detection system 101 is
configured to alert a user that the integrity of the seal assembly 115, for example, has been
compromised prior to contaminants entering the lubrication chamber 140 to reduce or eliminate
damage to the bearing 144.
        [0053] Referring to FIGS. 2A-2C, an embodiment of a roto-dynamic pump system 200
having a seal assembly 250 is illustrated. In the embodiment illustrated in FIGS. 2A-2C, the seal
assembly 250 is configured to seal a fluid passageway 240 from contaminants.            As seen
specifically in FIG. 2B, the seal assembly 250 includes a first sealing member 252 and a second
sealing member 254 spaced apart from the first sealing member 252, both encircling the shaft
210.    The first sealing member 252 and the second sealing member 254 divide the fluid
passageway 240 into an interior section 246, which is exposed to an interior 221 of a housing
205, an open section 242, which is exposed to an exterior area 223 surrounding the housing 205,
and a sealed section 244, which is fluidly sealed between the interior section 246 and the open
section 242. As discussed in greater detail below, the contaminant detection system 101 (FIG. 1)
                                                  8

monitors the integrity of the seal assembly 250, and in particular, first and second sealing
members 252 and 254, via one or more sensors 260 extending into the sealed section 244, by
detecting the presence of contaminants (i.e., moisture and/or other unwanted substances) in the
sealed section 244. Such detection inside the sealed section 244 provides an indication of a loss
of integrity of the seal assembly 250 prior to such contaminants entering the interior 221 of the
housing 205, and in particular, inside a bearing 220 causing damage thereto.
        [0054] As illustrated in FIG. 2A, the interior 221 of the housing 205 is fluidically
connected to the bearing 220 lubricated by lubricants provided through a lubrication port 211.
Depending on the particular bearing type selected for the bearing 220, the lubricants include oil
or grease or any other appropriate lubricating substances.      The lubricants are retained in a
lubrication chamber 214 formed within a lubrication housing 213, which is affixed to the
housing 205. In the embodiment disclosed herein, the lubricants enter the chamber 214 through
the port 211.   Excess lubricant then purges through a lubricant drain 216 and into the housing
205.
        [0055] The seal assembly 250 illustrated in FIGS. 2A and 2B includes stationary member
215 and a rotatable member 225 rotatably positioned adjacent the stationary member 215. In
particular, the stationary member 215 surrounds the shaft 210 and is affixed to the housing 205
via an end cover 217, which is secured to and remains stationary with respect to the housing 205.
The rotatable member 225 is positioned adjacent to the stationary member 215 and is affixed
around the shaft 210 for rotation therewith. In the embodiment illustrated in FIG. 2A, a finger
227 is optionally provided to be affixed around and rotatable with the shaft 210 such that during
operation, the finger 227 blocks contaminants and other debris from the seal assembly 250.
        [0056] The rotatable member 225 is intermeshed with the stationary member 215 to form
the open section 242 of the fluid passageway 240. Thus, the fluid passageway 240 is formed
between an inner wall of the stationary member 215 and an outer surface of the shaft 210 and
further extends between the passageway formed between the rotatable member 225 and the
stationary member 215. In the embodiment illustrated in FIGS. 2A and 2B, the portion of the
passageway 240 formed between the rotatable member 225 and the stationary member 215
extends radially outward to the exterior area 223 forming, in the embodiment illustrated in FIG.
                                                 9

2B, a labyrinth 258, which as explained in further detail below, acts as a seal during rotation of
the shaft 210.
         [0057] Referring specifically to FIG. 2B, the first sealing member 252 is secured within
the fluid passageway 240 and is disposed within grooves 262 and 264 formed in the stationary
member 215 and the rotatable member 225, respectively. The second sealing member 254 is
secured around the stationary member 215 and is disposed in a groove 266 formed in the
stationary member 215. According to some embodiments, the sealing members 252 and 254 are
an elastomeric sealing ring, for example, a nitrile or nylon O-ring, sized to fit into the grooves
262, 264 and 266, respectively.
         [0058] With continued reference to FIG. 2B, during rotation of the shaft 210 and the
rotational member 225, centrifugal help prevent contaminant traveling through the labyrinth 258
in a direction towards the first sealing member 252. In this configuration, therefore, the function
provided by the first sealing member 252 is to seal against contaminants that may pass through
the labyrinth 258, which dynamically seals the sealed section 244. The centrifugal force expels
and/or otherwise forces the contaminants disposed within the open section 242, including in
labyrinth 258, through a port 270 formed through the stationary member 215 and into the
exterior area 223. According to some embodiments, the seal assembly 250 is operable such that
the first sealing member 252 is the labyrinth 258 such that the labyrinth and the second sealing
member 254 formed the sealed section 244.
         [0059] The contaminant detection system 101 includes a sensor 260 secured to the
stationary member 215, the sensor 260 extending into an annular recess 268 formed within the
sealed section 244 for sensing contaminants that migrate therein due to a loss of the integrity of
the seal assembly 250. For example, in the event first seal 252 is damaged and fails to seal, the
sensor 260 detects the presence of moisture or any other contaminants in the sealed section 244.
In the embodiment illustrated in FIG. 2A, the sensor 260 is connected to a detection circuit 290
via a wired connection, although in alternate embodiments, such connection includes a wireless
connection by way of example. In response to sensor 260 detecting contaminants, a signal is
sent to the detection circuit 290, which in turn outputs an alarm signal to notify of a failure of the
seal assembly 250. According to some embodiments, a single sensor 260 is used for detection;
                                                  10

however, in other embodiments, two or more sensors 260 are secured to the stationary member
215 for improved accuracy and/or reliability. As illustrated in FIG. 2C, multiple sensors 280 and
282 are radially placed in the stationary member 215 and extend into the annular recess 268. The
sensors 260 can be any type of sensor capable of detecting contaminants, such as, for example, a
sensor for detecting moisture based on a change in conduction. For example, in the embodiment
illustrated in FIG. 2C, the buildup of contaminants in the sealed section 244 provides a
conductive path between a pair of sensors 280 and 282, which closes a circuit to trigger an alarm
signal. According to some embodiments, based on the level of conductance, it is possible to
identify which seal 252, 254 has failed. For example, oil has a different conductance than water
and as such, an alarm can be configured alert an operator of a particular seal failure based on the
type of fluid that breaches the seal assembly 250 (e.g., water breaching seal 252).
         [0060] FIG. 3 is a cross-sectional view of another seal assembly generally denoted as seal
assembly 300. Similar to the seal assembly 250, the seal assembly 300 is employed by the pump
system 100 or any other similar system. The seal assembly 300 is configured to seal a gap
between a rotating shaft 310 and a housing 305 against contaminants entering from an exterior
area 323.
         [0061] In the embodiment illustrated in FIG. 3, the seal assembly 300 includes a
stationary member 317 surrounding a shaft 310 and is affixed to the housing 305. A rotatable
member 327, such as, for example, a finger, is optionally affixed to the shaft 310 for rotation
therewith. The rotatable member 327, when positioned adjacent to the stationary member 317,
forms a fluid passage 340 connecting the interior 321 of the housing 305 to the exterior area 323.
The interior 321 is fluidically connected to a lubrication chamber 314 formed within a
lubrication housing 313. In operation, the lubrication port 311 provides a pathway for lubricants
to enter the housing 305 in order to lubricate a bearing 320. The lubricants cycle through, in the
case of oil, the bearing 320 and the lubrication chamber 314 and exit via a drain 316, for eventual
return to the housing 305 through the lubrication port 311.
         [0062] In the embodiment illustrated in FIG. 3, the seal assembly 300 includes a first
sealing member 352 and a second sealing member 354, both secured to the stationary member
317. As illustrated, the sealing members 352 and 354 divide the fluid passage 340 into an
                                                  11

interior section 346, an open section 342 and a sealed section 344 disposed between the interior
section 346 and the open section 342.        In the embodiment illustrated in FIG. 3, the interior
section 346 is fluidly connected with the interior 321 of the housing 305 and the open section
342 is fluidly connected with the exterior area 323. At least one sensor 360 is disposed within
the sealed section 344 and configured to sense the contaminants, such as, for example, moisture,
present in the sealed section 344.
         [0063] In some embodiments, the stationary member 317 and the rotatable member 327
are intermeshed with each other to form a labyrinth 358 in the open section 342 of the fluid
passage 340. As previously described, the labyrinth 358 is configured to redirect contaminants
away from the housing 305 in response to rotation of the shaft 310 and the rotatable member
327. In particular, the trapped contaminants are expelled from the open section 342 through a
port 399 in the stationary member 317 in response to rotation of the rotatable member 327.
         [0064] According to some embodiments, similar to sensor 260, the sensor 360 is a sensor
for detecting moisture that has breached the first sealing member 352.            The sensor 360
electronically coupled with an alarm system 390 that is configured to alert a user or operator of a
failure of at least one of the first or second sealing member 352 or 354. In some embodiments,
the first and second sealing members 352 are elastomeric sealing rings, although it should be
understood that the sealing members 352 and 354 may be otherwise formed.
         [0065] Embodiments disclosed herein also provide for a method for securing a seal
assembly 250, 300 to a motor housing 120. The method includes securing a stationary member
217, 317 to the housing 205, 305 to surround a rotating shaft 210, 310 and hold the seal assembly
250, 350. A rotatable member 227, 327 is secured to an adjacent portion of the rotating shaft
210, 310 for rotation therewith.       The rotatable member 227, 327 is positioned adjacent the
stationary member 215, 317 and form a fluid passage 240, 340. The fluid passage 240, 340
connects an interior 221, 321 of the housing 205, 305 and an exterior area 223, 323 of the
housing 205, 305. A first sealing member 252, 352 and a second sealing member 254, 354 are
provided to sealingly divide the fluid passage 240, 340 into an interior section 246, 346, an open
section 242, 342, and a sealed section 244, 344. The interior section 246, 346 is exposed to the
interior 221, 321 of the housing 205, 305, the open section 242, 342 is exposed to the exterior
                                                  12

area 223, 323 of the housing 205, 305 and the sealed section 244, 344 is disposed between the
interior section 246, 346 and the open section 242, 342. A sensor 260, 360 is positioned in the
sealed section 244, 344 to sense contaminants in the sealed section 244, 344.
         [0066] The embodiments disclosed herein provide advantages such as, for example, the
detection of a loss of integrity of a seal assembly such that repair and/or replacement of the seal
can be performed prior to damage to bearings or contamination of the interior section.           For
grease filled assemblies, placing a sensor in grease will not necessarily detect the presence of
contaminates.     Clean grease can cover the sensing device during initial operation and thus
contaminates may not be able to penetrate this grease to trigger the sensor. Further if the sensors
only trigger when the lubricating media is contaminated, the negative effects on the bearings or
sealed region may have already occurred. Thus, embodiments provided herein provide a sensor
arrangement to detect presence of moisture or other contaminants after it breaches the primary or
first seal and prior to entering the sealed region. Furthermore, embodiments provided herein
isolate the sensor from grease or other lubrication to ensure detection ability.
         [0067] In the foregoing description of certain embodiments, specific terminology has
been resorted to for the sake of clarity. However, the disclosure is not intended to be limited to
the specific terms so selected, and it is to be understood that each specific term includes other
technical equivalents which operate in a similar manner to accomplish a similar technical
purpose. Terms such as "left" and right", "front" and "rear", "above" and "below" and the like
are used as words of convenience to provide reference points and are not to be construed as
limiting terms.
         [0068] In this specification, the word "comprising" is to be understood in its "open"
sense, that is, in the sense of "including", and thus not limited to its "closed" sense, that is the
sense of "consisting only of'. A corresponding meaning is to be attributed to the corresponding
words "comprise", "comprised" and "comprises" where they appear.
         [0069] In addition, the foregoing describes some embodiments of the disclosure, and
alterations, modifications, additions and/or changes can be made thereto without departing from
the scope and spirit of the disclosed embodiments, the embodiments being illustrative and not
restrictive.
                                                  13

        [0070] Furthermore, the disclosure is not to be limited to the illustrated implementations,
but on the contrary, is intended to cover various modifications and equivalent arrangements
included within the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Also, the various embodiments described
above may be implemented in conjunction with other embodiments, e.g., aspects of one
embodiment may be combined with aspects of another embodiment to realize yet other
embodiments.     Further, each independent feature or component of any given assembly may
constitute an additional embodiment.
                                                14

         The claims defining the invention are as follows:
         1.      A seal assembly for sealing a fluid passageway from contaminants, the fluid
passageway formed by a rotating shaft entering an opening in a housing, the fluid passageway
connecting an interior of the housing and an exterior of the housing, the seal assembly
comprising:
         a stationary member surrounding the shaft and affixed to the housing;
         a rotatable member secured to an adjacent portion of the shaft, the rotatable member and
the stationary member forming at least a portion of the fluid passage connecting the interior of
the housing to the exterior of the housing;
         a first sealing member having an inner diameter surrounding the rotating shaft and a
second sealing member having an inner diameter surrounding the rotating shaft, the first and
second sealing members dividing the fluid passage into an interior section exposed to the interior
of the housing, an open section exposed to the exterior, and a sealed section fluidly sealed
between the interior section and the open section, wherein the length of the inner diameter of the
first sealing member is a different length of the inner diameter of the second sealing member;
and
         a sensor disposed within the sealed section, the sensor detecting the contaminants within
the sealed section.
         2.      The seal assembly of claim 1, wherein the stationary member and the rotatable
member are intermeshed to form a labyrinth in the fluid passageway.
         3.      The seal assembly of claim 2, wherein the labyrinth is the first sealing member.
         4.      The seal assembly of claim 1, wherein the second sealing member is secured to
the stationary member.
         5.      The seal assembly of claim 1, wherein the second sealing member is disposed
between the rotating shaft and the stationary member.
                                                 15

        6.       The seal assembly of claim 2, further comprising a port formed in the stationary
member extending from the labyrinth through the stationary member such that during rotation of
the rotatable member, contaminants exit the labyrinth through the port prior to entering the
sealed section.
        7.       The seal assembly of claim 1, wherein the sensor is electronically coupled to a
controller, the controller configured to send an alarm signal indicating the detection of a
contaminant.
        8.       The seal assembly of claim 1, wherein the sensor is a sensor to detect moisture.
        9.       A motor for a pump, the motor comprising:
        a housing;
        a rotating shaft extending through an opening in the housing; and
        a seal assembly surrounding the shaft formed having:
                 a stationary member surrounding the shaft and affixed to the housing;
                 a rotatable member secured to an adjacent portion of the shaft, the rotatable
        member and the stationary member forming a fluid passage connecting an interior of the
        housing to an exterior of the housing;
                 a first sealing member having an inner diameter surrounding the rotatable shaft
        and a second sealing member having an inner diameter surrounding the rotatable shaft,
        the first and second sealing members dividing the fluid passage into an interior section
        exposed to the interior of the housing, an open section exposed to the exterior of the
        housing, and a sealed section disposed between and sealed from the interior section and
        the open section wherein the first sealing member inner diameter has a length that is
        different from the length of the second sealing member inner diameter; and
                 at least one sensor disposed within the sealed section, the sensor configured to
        sense the contaminants within the sealed section.
        10.      The motor of claim 9, wherein the stationary member and the rotatable member
are intermeshed with each other to form a labyrinth in the fluid passageway.
                                                 16

         11.     The motor of claim 10, further comprising a port formed in the stationary
member, the port extending from the labyrinth through the stationary member such that during
rotation of the rotatable member, contaminants exit the labyrinth through the port prior to
entering the sealed section.
         12.     The motor of claim 9, wherein the sensor is secured to the stationary member and
extends into an annular recess formed in the stationary member.
         13.     The motor of claim 9, wherein the second sealing member is disposed between
the rotating shaft and the stationary member.
         14.     A method for securing a seal assembly to a motor housing, the seal assembly
sealing a rotating shaft entering the housing from contaminants, the method comprising:
         securing a stationary member to the housing so as to surround the rotating shaft;
         securing a rotatable member to an adjacent portion of the rotating shaft for rotation
therewith;
         positioning the rotatable member adjacent the stationary member to form a fluid passage
therebetween, the fluid passage connecting an interior of the housing and an exterior of the
housing;
         providing a first sealing member having an inner diameter surrounding the rotating shaft
and a second sealing member having an inner diameter surrounding the rotating shaft, the first
and second sealing members positioned to sealingly divide the fluid passage into an interior
section exposed to the interior of the housing, an open section exposed to an exterior of the
housing, and a sealed section disposed between the interior section and the open section, wherein
the first sealing member inner diameter has a length that is different from a length of the second
sealing member inner diameter; and
         positioning a sensor in the sealed section to sense contaminants in the sealed section.
         15.     The method of claim 14, further comprising forming the rotatable member and the
stationary member such that they intermesh and form a labyrinth in the fluid passageway,
                                                   17

         16.    The method of claim 15, wherein providing the first sealing member comprises
forming the labyrinth in the open section.
         17.    The method of claim 14, wherein providing the second sealing member comprises
securing the second sealing member between the stationary member and the rotating shaft.
         18.    The method of claim 14, wherein securing a rotatable member to an adjacent
portion of the rotating shaft for rotation therewith includes securing a finger to the rotating shaft.
         19.    A seal assembly for sealing a fluid passageway from contaminants, the fluid
passageway formed by a rotating shaft entering an opening in a housing, the fluid passageway
connecting an interior of the housing and an exterior of the housing, the seal assembly
comprising:
        a first sealing member and a second sealing member dividing the fluid passage into an
interior section exposed to the interior of the housing, an open section exposed to the exterior,
and a sealed section fluidly sealed between the interior section and the open section;
        a stationary member surrounding the shaft and affixed to the housing, wherein the first
sealing member and the second sealing member are disposed between the stationary member and
the shaft;
        a rotatable member secured to an adjacent portion of the shaft, the rotatable member and
the stationary member dividing the fluid passage connecting the interior of the housing to the
exterior of the housing, wherein the stationary member and the rotatable member are
intermeshed to form a labyrinth in the fluid passageway;
        a port formed in the stationary member extending from the labyrinth through the
stationary member such that during rotation of the rotatable member, contaminants exit the
labyrinth through the port prior to entering the sealed section; and
        a sensor disposed within the sealed section, the sensor configured to sense the
contaminants within the sealed section.
                                                   18

         20.     The seal assembly of claim 19, wherein the first sealing member is formed having
an inner diameter surrounding the rotating and a second sealing member having an inner
diameter surrounding the rotating shaft, the second sealing member inner diameter having a
length different from the length of the first sealing member inner diameter.
         21.     A seal assembly for sealing a fluid passageway from contaminants, the fluid
passageway formed by a rotating shaft entering an opening in a housing, the fluid passageway
connecting an interior of the housing and an exterior of the housing, the seal assembly
comprising:
         a first sealing member and a second sealing member dividing the fluid passage into an
interior section exposed to the interior of the housing, an open section exposed to the exterior,
and a sealed section fluidly sealed between the interior section and the open section; and
         a sensor disposed within the sealed section, the sensor configured to sense the
contaminants within the sealed section.
         22.     The seal assembly of claim 21, further comprising:
         a stationary member surrounding the shaft and affixed to the housing;
         a rotatable member secured to an adjacent portion of the shaft, the rotatable member and
the stationary member dividing the fluid passage connecting the interior of the housing to the
exterior of the housing.
         23.     The seal assembly of claim 22, wherein the first sealing member is secured
between the rotatable member and the stationary member.
         24.     The seal assembly of claim 22, wherein the stationary member and the rotatable
member are intermeshed to form a labyrinth in the fluid passageway.
         25.     The seal assembly of claim 23, wherein the labyrinth is the first sealing member.
         26.     The seal assembly of claim 22, wherein the second sealing member is secured to
the stationary member.
                                                   19

        27.     The seal assembly of claim 22, wherein the first and second sealing members are
secured to the stationary member.
        28.     The seal assembly of claim 27, wherein the rotatable member is a finger.
        29.     The seal assembly of claim 24, further comprising a port formed in the stationary
member extending from the labyrinth through the stationary member such that during rotation of
the rotatable member, contaminants exit the labyrinth through the port prior to entering the
sealed section.
        30.     The seal assembly of claim 21, wherein the first sealing member is an elastomeric
sealing ring and the second sealing member is an elastomeric sealing ring.
        31.     The seal assembly of claim 21, wherein the shaft couples a motor to a pump.
        32.     The seal assembly of claim 21, wherein the sensor is electronically coupled to a
controller, the controller configured to send an alarm signal indicating the detection of a
contaminant.
        33.     The seal assembly of claim 22, wherein the sensor is secured to the stationary
member and extends into an annular recess formed in the stationary member.
        34.     The seal assembly of claim 22, wherein the sensor is a sensor to detect moisture.
        35.     The seal assembly of claim 21, wherein the housing comprises a bearing cavity.
        36.     The seal assembly of claim 35, wherein the housing comprises a bearing cavity in
a motor for a pump.
        37.     A motor for a pump, the motor comprising:
                                               20

        a housing;
        a rotatable shaft extending through an opening in the housing; and
        a seal assembly surrounding the shaft and sealing against contaminants outside the
housing at the opening, the seal assembly comprising:
                a stationary member surrounding the shaft and affixed to the housing;
                a rotatable member secured to an adjacent portion of the shaft, the rotatable
member and the stationary member forming a fluid passage connecting an interior of the housing
to an exterior of the housing;
                a first sealing member and a second sealing member dividing the fluid passage
into an interior section exposed to the interior of the housing, an open section exposed to the
exterior of the housing, and a sealed section disposed between and sealed from the interior
section and the open section; and
                at least one sensor disposed within the sealed section, the sensor configured to
sense the contaminants within the sealed section.
        38.     The motor of claim 37, wherein the stationary member and the rotatable member
are intermeshed with each other to form a labyrinth in the fluid passageway.
        39.     The motor of claim 38, further comprising a port formed in the stationary
member, the port extending from the labyrinth through the stationary member such that during
rotation of the rotatable member, contaminants exit the labyrinth through the port prior to
entering the sealed section.
        40.     The motor of claim 38, wherein the labyrinth is the first sealing member.
        41.     The motor of claim 37, wherein the at least one sensor is a sensor to detect
moisture.
        42.     The motor of claim 37, wherein the first sealing member is an elastomeric sealing
ring and the second sealing member is an elastomeric sealing ring.
                                                21

         43.     The motor of claim 37, wherein the at least one sensor is electronically coupled to
a controller configured to send a signal notifying the detection of a contaminant in the sealed
section.
         44.     The motor of claim 37, wherein the sensor is secured to the stationary member
and extends into an annular recess formed in the stationary member.
         45.     The motor of claim 37, wherein the first and second sealing members are secured
to the stationary member to form the sealed section.
         46.     The motor of claim 37, wherein the first sealing member is secured between the
stationary member and the rotatable member and the second sealing member is secured to the
stationary member.
         47.     The motor of claim 37, wherein the housing comprises a bearing cavity.
         48.     A method for securing a seal assembly to a motor housing, the seal assembly
sealing a rotating shaft entering the housing from contaminants, the method comprising:
         securing a stationary member to the housing so as to surround the rotating shaft;
         securing a rotatable member to an adjacent portion of the rotating shaft for rotation
therewith;
         positioning the rotatable member adjacent the stationary member to form a fluid passage
therebetween, the fluid passage connecting an interior of the housing and an exterior of the
housing;
         providing a first sealing member and a second sealing member to sealingly divide the
fluid passage into an interior section exposed to the interior of the housing, an open section
exposed to an exterior of the housing, and a sealed section disposed between the interior section
and the open section; and
         positioning a sensor in the sealed section to sense contaminants in the sealed section.
                                                   22

        49.     The method of claim 48, further comprising forming the rotatable member and the
stationary member such that they intermesh and form a labyrinth in the fluid passageway.
        50.     The method of claim 49, wherein providing the first sealing member comprises
forming the labyrinth in the open section.
        51.     The method of claim 48, further comprising machining at least one chamber in the
stationary member to house the sensor.
        52.     The method of claim 49, wherein positioning the sensor in the sealed section
comprises positioning a sensor for detecting moisture in the sealed section.
        53.     The method of claim 48, further comprising coupling the moisture sensor to a
controller configured to send a signal notifying the detection of a contaminant.
        54.     The method of claim 48, wherein providing the first sealing member comprises
providing and elastomeric seal ring.
        55.     The method of claim 54, wherein providing the second sealing member comprises
providing an elastomeric seal ring.
        56.     The method of claim 48, wherein providing the first and second sealing members
comprises securing the first and second sealing members on the stationary member to sealingly
engage the rotatable shaft.
        57.     The method of claim 48, wherein providing the first and second sealing members
comprises securing the first sealing member between the stationary member and the rotatable
member and the second sealing member to the stationary member.
        58.     The method of claim 48, wherein securing a rotatable member to an adjacent
portion of the rotating shaft for rotation therewith includes securing a finger to the rotating shaft.
                                                  23

        59.     A method for detecting the loss of seal integrity, the seal having a first sealing
member and a second sealing member spaced apart from the first sealing member forming a
sealed section for sealing a bearing cavity against contaminants, the method comprising:
         monitoring the sealed section with a sensor to detect the presence of contaminants in the
sealed section.
        60.     The method of claim 59, wherein detecting the presence of contaminants
comprises detecting moisture in the sealed section.
        61.     The method of claim 59, wherein monitoring the sealed section further comprises
detecting the presence of moisture after the moisture breaches the first sealing member and prior
to the moisture entering the bearing cavity.
        62.     The method of claim 59, wherein in response to detecting the presence of
contaminants, generating an alert to communicate a loss of seal integrity.
                                                 24

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       מננמ

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       מננמ

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       מננמ

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       מננמ

