ABSTRACT
A system may include sensor equipment, task performance equipment, and a yard maintenance
manager. The sensor equipment may include one or more sensors disposed on a parcel of land.
The task performance equipment may be configured to perform a task on the parcel. The task
may be associated with generating a result that is enabled to be monitored via the sensor
equipment. The yard maintenance manager may be configured to interface with the sensor
equipment and the task performance equipment to compare measured conditions with desirable
conditions to direct operation of the task performance equipment.
Fig 6.

   WO 2015/022654                                                     PCT/IB2014/063898
                                                    6/8
                              40
         Yard maintenance manager
110                                                 41
              Proen                                 Task
112-,       circuitry                           performance
                                  + ---          equipm ent
              Pro.....cessor                       control
  114-
                             Memorycircuitry
130                                          20                             0
               User                                Device /           Task
                          intrfceNetwork                      + - performance
                                                  Interface        equipment
           Operator                                Network(s)
              Remote                          pefrance              Sensor
             terminal                         pequipmente         equipment
            131                                                             30
                                                  F IG. 6.

   WO 2015/022654                                                        PCT/IB2014/063898
                                                1
                     INTELLIGENT GROUNDS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
                                       TECHNICAL FIELD
           Example      embodiments    generally  relate to  intelligent systems  and,  more
 5 particularly, relate to a system for managing sensors and/or outdoor equipment to provide
   monitoring and grounds care servicing.
                                         BACKGROUND
           Grounds care maintenance tasks may include lawn care and/or gardening tasks
10 related to facilitating growth and manicuring the lawns or gardens that hopefully prosper
   as a result of those efforts. Facilitating growth has commonly required individuals to
   focus routine attention on ensuring growing conditions are appropriate for the vegetation
   being grown, and on providing the necessary care and grooming tasks to further enhance
   growth.
15         As technological capabilities have improved, various devices or sensors have been
   developed that are capable of employment to monitor various aspects of growing
   conditions. Gardeners have therefore been enabled to employ the sensors or devices in
   specific locations to monitor and correct, if needed, the growing conditions. However,
   even with the improvement of monitoring devices or sensors, gardeners are still often
20 required to employ a high degree of manual interaction to place and/or operate the devices
   or sensors.
                            BRIEF SUMMARY OF SOME EXAMPLES
           Some example embodiments may therefore provide a capability for intelligent
25 control or management of a number of assets in connection with yard maintenance. Thus,
   for example, sensor equipment and task performance equipment operation may be
   coordinated for efficient gardening and lawn care.
           According to an example embodiment, a system for providing control of garden
   assets is provided.       The system may include sensor equipment, task performance
30 equipment, and a yard maintenance manager. The sensor equipment may include one or
   more sensors disposed on a parcel of land.        The task performance equipment may be
   configured to perform a task on the parcel. The task may be associated with generating a
   result that is enabled to be monitored via the sensor equipment. The yard maintenance
   manager may be configured to interface with the sensor equipment and the task

   WO 2015/022654                                                           PCT/IB2014/063898
                                               2
   performance equipment to compare measured conditions with desirable conditions to
   direct operation of the task performance equipment.
           According to another example embodiment, a method of providing control over
   garden assets is provided. The method may include receiving sensor data from sensor
 5 equipment including one or more sensors disposed on a parcel of land, determining current
   conditions on the parcel based on the sensor data, and comparing the current conditions to
   desirable conditions associated with vegetation planted on the parcel of land. The method
   may further include providing at least one instruction relative to operation of task
   performance equipment configured to perform a task on the parcel where the task is
10 associated with generating a result that is enabled to be monitored via the sensor
   equipment.
           Some example embodiments may improve the ability of operators to maximize the
   beauty and productivity of their yards and gardens, but do so in a cost effective and
   environmentally friendly way.
15
          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWING(S)
           Having thus described the invention in general terms, reference will now be made
   to the accompanying drawings, which are not necessarily drawn to scale, and wherein:
           FIG. 1 illustrates a block diagram of a system in accordance with an example
20 embodiment;
           FIG. 2 illustrates a diagram of a parcel that is divided into various zones according
   to an example embodiment;
           FIG. 3 illustrates a simple water migration path with power provided to sensors
   remotely according to an example embodiment;
25         FIG. 4 illustrates an alternative water migration path where power is provided to
   sensor equipment and task performance equipment via an integrated electric and water
   provision system according to an example embodiment;
           FIG. 5 illustrates a modified example embodiment in which the communication
   with the yard maintenance manager is further illustrated according to an example
30 embodiment;
           FIG. 6 illustrates a block diagram of a system having task performance equipment
   control circuitry integrated into the yard maintenance manager in accordance with an
   example embodiment;

   WO 2015/022654                                                           PCT/IB2014/063898
                                               3
           FIG. 7 illustrates a block diagram of a method according to an example
   embodiment; and
           FIG. 8 illustrates a hose or pipe with integrated electrical wires in accordance with
   an example embodiment.
 5
                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
            Some example embodiments now will be described more fully hereinafter with
   reference to the accompanying drawings, in which some, but not all example embodiments
   are shown. Indeed, the examples described and pictured herein should not be construed as
10 being limiting as to the scope, applicability or configuration of the present disclosure.
   Rather, these example embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy
   applicable legal requirements. Like reference numerals refer to like elements throughout.
   Furthermore, as used herein, the term "or" is to be interpreted as a logical operator that
   results in true whenever one or more of its operands are true. Additionally, the term "yard
15 maintenance" is meant to relate to any outdoor grounds improvement or maintenance
   related activity and need not specifically apply to activities directly tied to grass, turf or
   sod care. Thus, yard maintenance should be appreciated to encompass gardening, lawn
   care, combinations thereof, and/or the like. As used herein, operable coupling should be
   understood to relate to direct or indirect connection that, in either case, enables functional
20 interconnection of components that are operably coupled to each other.
           Example embodiments may provide a comprehensive system for monitoring yard
   conditions (i.e., lawn and/or garden conditions) at any of what may potentially be a
   number of locations throughout a particular parcel, and performing tasks relative to those
   locations. In this regard, for example, the system may utilize a communication network
25 that gathers information on growing conditions from sensor equipment for association of
   the information with the areas from which the information was gathered. The system may
   also employ processing circuitry to associate a set of optimal or desirable growing
   condition parameters with the various areas. When the information is received describing
   the growing conditions of the various areas, the processing circuitry may compare the
30 growing conditions (i.e., current conditions) to the growing condition parameters (i.e.,
   desired conditions) to determine whether and to what extent corrective actions may be
   needed to improve the growing conditions.             The processing circuitry may then
   communicate with an owner/operator to suggest or provide instruction for improvement of
   the growing conditions.       Alternatively or additionally, the processing circuitry may

   WO 2015/022654                                                          PCT/IB2014/063898
                                                 4
   interact with task performance equipment via the communication network (or a separate
   network) to direct efforts to improve the growing conditions.
            The system may generally employ a collection of fixed sensors that gather data that
   relates to specific segments of the parcel that may correspond to each respective one of the
 5 various areas mentioned above. The specific segments may have different types of plants
   therein, and therefore may optimally have different growing conditions desirable in
   connection with each respective one of the segments. The owner/operator may define the
   specific segments, which may be referred to as "zones," and identify the plants associated
   with each zone or the growing conditions desired for each zone using an application
10 configured to facilitate such definition. In some cases, the processing circuitry may be
   equipped to correlate desirable growing conditions to an identified plant species based on
   stored information associated with each plant species from a database or online resource.
   Accordingly, each zone will have corresponding growing condition parameters associated
   therewith (perhaps based on the plants therein), and the growing condition parameters may
15 define the desired growing conditions (e.g., any or all of moisture level, temperature,
   lighting level, pH, and/or the like) for the corresponding zone. In some cases, the zones
   may further be associated with the corresponding task performance equipment that may be
   employed to alter the growing conditions in the respective zones. The task performance
   equipment may be listed in association with each zone for which the equipment may
20 provide services (e.g., in a resource list). The processing circuitry may then either direct
   operation of assets from the resource list to achieve a desired outcome or may provide
   instructions or suggestions to the owner/operator regarding the assets from the resource
   list that could be employed to achieve a desired outcome based on a comparison of the
   measured or current conditions to the growing condition parameters associated with the
25 plants in the zone.        Alternatively, the processing circuitry may merely inform the
   owner/operator of the situation, and the owner/operator may be relied upon to take
   corrective actions or enhancement actions as appropriate.
            FIG. 1 illustrates a block diagram of a system 10 that may be employed to
   accomplish the basic operations described above in accordance with an example
30 embodiment. Within the context of FIG. 1, it should be appreciated that certain tasks, like
   grass cutting, are typically performed by lawn mowers, which could be walk behind, ride
   on, or robotic models. Tasks such as soil preparation may be performed or enhanced using
   tillers. Still other tasks, like lawn watering, may be performed by sprinkler heads at fixed
   locations or by the transportation of water via hoses to desired locations. Other tasks may

   WO 2015/022654                                                            PCT/IB2014/063898
                                                 5
   also be performed such as, wildlife dispersion, providing light, blocking light or otherwise
   improving light conditions, and adding fertilizer or other components to alter the soil.
   These tasks may be performed by, or in connection with, devices that are fixed within the
   parcel (e.g., sprinkler heads, lighting units, etc.), or they may be performed by mobile task
 5 performance equipment that is manually or automatically operated (e.g., robots, tillers,
   mowers and the like).      All such devices may represent examples of task performance
   equipment 20 that may be used to accomplish functional tasks relative to yard
   maintenance activities. The task performance equipment 20 may therefore serve as the
   assets or resources that may be used to achieve desired outcomes within the context of the
10 system 10.
             Meanwhile, various sensors may be employed by insertion of such sensors into soil
   for monitoring growing conditions (e.g., lighting levels, moisture levels, pH, temperature,
   etc.).    The sensors could be placed at different soil depths or in different locations
   dependent upon the specific types of vegetation that are planted in a given zone. Other
15 sensors (e.g., cameras) may be provided to obtain video or image data to facilitate
   improving growing conditions as well.         In some cases, for example, sensors could be
   placed proximate to the task performance equipment 20 that performs the function that the
   corresponding sensors are designed to monitor. Regardless of the specific configuration or
   placement paradigm, the various sensors may represent sensor equipment 30, as described
20 above.
             The sensor equipment 30, and in some cases also one or more of the devices that
   comprise the task performance equipment 20, may be in communication with a yard
   maintenance manager 40 via a network 50. The network 50 may be a data network, such
   as a local area network (LAN), a metropolitan area network (MAN), a wide area network
25 (WAN) (e.g., the Internet), a wireless personal area network (WPAN), and/or the like,
   which may couple client devices (e.g., the sensor equipment 30 and/or the task
   performance equipment 20) to devices such as processing elements (e.g., personal
   computers, server computers or the like) and/or databases such as the yard maintenance
   manager 40. Communication between the network 50, the client devices and the devices
30 or databases (e.g., servers) to which the client devices are coupled may be accomplished
   by     either wireline   or   wireless   communication       mechanisms    and  corresponding
   communication protocols. As such, for example, some or all of the sensors of the sensor
   equipment 30 may be connected to the yard maintenance manager 40 by wire and/or be
   wireless communication means.          Meanwhile, some or all of the devices of the task

   WO 2015/022654                                                         PCT/IB2014/063898
                                              6
   performance equipment 20 may be connected to the yard maintenance manager 40 by wire
   or by wireless communication means. As such, for example, a remote terminal may be
   connected to the yard maintenance manager 40 by wire and/or wireless communication
   means. Accordingly, the yard maintenance manager 40 may monitor growing conditions,
 5 perhaps on a zone by zone basis, and direct the operation of task performance equipment
   20 to improve growing conditions or otherwise facilitate plant growth.
            As shown in FIG. 1, the yard maintenance manager 40 may include processing
   circuitry 110 that may be configured to perform data processing, control function
   execution and/or other processing and management services according to an example
10 embodiment of the present invention.      As such, it may be appreciated that the yard
   maintenance manager 40 could be embodied as a computer, smart phone, server, or other
   computing device. In some embodiments, the processing circuitry 110 may be embodied
   as a chip or chip set. In other words, the processing circuitry 110 may comprise one or
   more physical packages (e.g., chips) including materials, components and/or wires on a
15 structural assembly (e.g., a baseboard).   The structural assembly may provide physical
   strength, conservation of size, and/or limitation of electrical interaction for component
   circuitry included thereon. The processing circuitry 110 may therefore, in some cases, be
   configured to implement an embodiment of the present invention on a single chip or as a
   single "system on a chip." As such, in some cases, a chip or chipset may constitute means
20 for performing one or more operations for providing the functionalities described herein.
            In an example embodiment, the processing circuitry 110 may include one or more
   instances of a processor 112 and memory 114 that may be in communication with or
   otherwise control a device interface 120 and, in some cases, a user interface 130. As such,
   the processing circuitry 110 may be embodied as a circuit chip (e.g., an integrated circuit
25 chip) configured (e.g., with hardware, software or a combination of hardware and
   software) to perform operations described herein. In some embodiments, the processing
   circuitry 110 may communicate with electronic components of the sensor equipment 30
   and the task performance equipment 20 via the network 50 (which may include one or
   more communication networks) via the device interface 120 and/or the network 50. The
30 network 50 may be localized such that it is associated with a single parcel, or may extend
   over and include a plurality of parcels. Moreover, in some cases, the network 50 may
   represent different networks or sub-networks.      Thus, in some cases, one short range
   communication network may be used to communicate data between sensors of the sensor
   network 30 and the yard maintenance manager 40 and another network may be used to

   WO 2015/022654                                                          PCT/IB2014/063898
                                               7
   communicate data or instructions between the yard maintenance manager 40 and the task
   performance equipment 20. Moreover, in some cases, still another network may be used
   to communicate data or instructions between the yard maintenance manager 40 and the
   owner/operator (e.g., via the computer or smart phone of the owner/operator).
 5         The user interface 130 (if implemented) may be in communication with the
   processing circuitry 110 to receive an indication of a user input at the user interface 130
   and/or to provide an audible, visual, mechanical or other output to the user (i.e., the
   owner/operator). As such, the user interface 130 may include, for example, a display, one
   or more buttons or keys (e.g., function buttons or a keyboard), and/or other input/output
10 mechanisms (e.g., microphone, speakers, cursor, joystick, lights and/or the like). The user
   interface 130 may be configured to provide alerts, warnings and/or notifications to the user
   or operator responsive to various trigger conditions being detected (e.g., via the sensor
   equipment 30 or other components).        In some cases, the user interface 130 may be
   configured to generate such alerts, warnings and/or notifications in response to plant
15 growing conditions being out of specification or out of recommended ranges.           System
   malfunctions, damage or tampering with equipment, equipment theft and other component
   related stimuli may also be defined as triggers for generation of the alerts, warnings and/or
   notifications. The alerts, warnings and/or notifications may be generated via light, sound,
   visual display, or other devices that may be connected to or part of the yard maintenance
20 manager 40. In some cases, the notifications may be provided by text message or email.
           The device interface 120 may include one or more interface mechanisms for
   enabling communication with other devices directly or via the network 50. In some cases,
   the device interface 120 may be any means such as a device or circuitry embodied in
   either hardware, or a combination of hardware and software that is configured to receive
25 and/or transmit data from/to sensors of the sensor equipment 30 and/or devices of the task
   performance equipment 20 in communication with the processing circuitry 110 by virtue
   of the device interface 120 being capable of sending and receiving messages via the
   network 50.     In some example embodiments, the device interface 120 may provide
   interfaces for communication of components internal to the system 10 with components
30 external to the system 10. For example, in an embodiment in which the yard maintenance
   manager 40 is embodied as a computer or a server, the device interface 120 may enable
   communication (e.g., via the internet or wireless communication methods) with a smart
   phone of the owner/operator. This communication may also occur via the network 50 (or
   via a sub-network of the network 50) in some cases.            However, it should also be

   WO 2015/022654                                                       PCT/IB2014/063898
                                              8
   appreciated that the owner/operator may directly interact with the yard maintenance
   manager 40 via the user interface 130.
            The processor 112 may be embodied in a number of different ways. For example,
   the processor 112 may be embodied as various processing means such as one or more of a
 5 microprocessor or other processing element, a coprocessor, a controller or various other
   computing or processing devices including integrated circuits such as, for example, an
   ASIC (application specific integrated circuit), an FPGA (field programmable gate array),
   or the like. In an example embodiment, the processor 112 may be configured to execute
   instructions stored in the memory 114 or otherwise accessible to the processor 112. As
10 such, whether configured by hardware or by a combination of hardware and software, the
   processor 112 may represent an entity (e.g., physically embodied in circuitry - in the form
   of processing circuitry 110) capable of performing operations according to embodiments
   of the present invention while configured accordingly.      Thus, for example, when the
   processor 112 is embodied as an ASIC, FPGA or the like, the processor 112 may be
15 specifically configured    hardware for conducting the operations       described herein.
   Alternatively, as another example, when the processor 112 is embodied as an executor of
   software instructions, the instructions may specifically configure the processor 112 to
   perform the operations described herein.
            In an example embodiment, the processor 112 (or the processing circuitry 110)
20 may be embodied as, include or otherwise control the yard maintenance manager 40. As
   such, in some embodiments, the processor 112 (or the processing circuitry 110) may be
   said to cause each of the operations described in connection with the yard maintenance
   manager 40 by directing the yard maintenance manager 40 to undertake the corresponding
   functionalities responsive to execution of instructions or algorithms configuring the
25 processor 112 (or processing circuitry 110) accordingly.        As an example, the yard
   maintenance manager 40 may be configured to receive sensor information from the sensor
   equipment 30 and make decisions regarding information to be provided to the
   owner/operator and/or instructions to be provided to task performance equipment 20. The
   processing circuitry 110 may, in some cases, process the condition information received
30 from the sensor equipment 30 and compare the condition information to growing
   condition parameters that are stored in the memory 114 for a given zone to determine
   whether an action should be take or recommended based on the comparison.
            In an exemplary embodiment, the memory 114 may include one or more non
   transitory memory devices such as, for example, volatile and/or non-volatile memory that

   WO 2015/022654                                                           PCT/IB2014/063898
                                                9
   may be either fixed or removable.          The memory 114 may be configured to store
   information, data, applications, instructions or the like for enabling the yard maintenance
   manager 40 to carry out various functions in accordance with exemplary embodiments of
   the present invention. For example, the memory 114 could be configured to buffer input
 5 data for processing by the processor 112. Additionally or alternatively, the memory 114
   could be configured to store instructions for execution by the processor 112.          As yet
   another alternative, the memory 114 may include one or more databases that may store a
   variety of data sets responsive to input from the sensor network. Among the contents of
   the memory 114, applications may be stored for execution by the processor 112 in order to
10 carry out the functionality associated with each respective application. In some cases, the
   applications may include providing the operator with the ability to define work zones and
   associate the work zones with either plants therein, or growing conditions suitable for
   plants therein.    The applications may also be configured to perform a comparison of
   information indicative of current growing conditions detected in a zone to stored
15 information about growing condition parameters that are desired for the vegetation that is
   in the zone. As indicated above, the growing condition parameters may be entered by the
   operator or may be extracted or retrieved from databases or sources accessible via the
   internet based on entry of an identity of the plant vegetation in a given zone.
            As mentioned above, the parcel (or parcels) for which the yard maintenance
20 manager 40 provides service may be divided into zones. Each zone could be monitored
   and managed based on the specific different growing conditions that are desirable for the
   vegetation provided therein. FIG. 2 illustrates a diagram of a parcel 200 that is divided into
   various zones. Some of the zones may be active zones while other zones may be inactive
   zones. Active zones may be zones that include or otherwise permit access to the sensor
25 equipment 30 and/or the task performance equipment 20.           The inactive zones may be
   zones that either do not include or do not permit access to the sensor equipment 30 and/or
   the task performance equipment 20, or areas for which, regardless of the capability for
   monitoring and task performance, management of such activities is not desired. As such,
   for example, an inactive zone may include an area that is covered by a house, concrete,
30 pavement, or land that is fallow or simply not desired for active management. In FIG. 2, a
   first inactive zone 210 is defined to outline the footprint of a house, and a second inactive
   zone 212 is defined to outline the footprint of a driveway leading to the house.
            A first active zone 220 is provided at the front of the house and may represent a
   plant bed. A second active zone 230, a third active zone 232 and a fourth active zone 234

   WO 2015/022654                                                           PCT/IB2014/063898
                                               10
   are provided in the back yard and may represent a garden. The remainder of the yard may
   represent a fifth active zone 240. Of note, in this example, the first active zone 220 covers
   a relatively large portion meant to represent the entire plant bed. Meanwhile, the fifth
   active zone 240 represents the entire yard that is not either inactive or associated with the
 5 garden. However, these segmentation examples are merely exemplary in order to present
   a relatively simple example to facilitate explanation of one example embodiment. Thus, it
   should be appreciated that the plant bed and the yard could further be broken up into one
   or more other (e.g., smaller) zones, if desired. Similarly, although the garden is broken up
   into smaller zones in this example, it should be appreciated that the garden could be
10 further broken up as well.     Moreover, individual plants, rows of plants and/or the like,
   could be designated to form their own zones in some cases. Likewise, within the yard, one
   or more trees, hedges, bushes or other specific plants or plant groups could be identified as
   their own respective zones (or sub-zones).
            The zones may be programmed into the yard maintenance manager 40 and the yard
15 maintenance manager 40 may also be aware of the sensor equipment and task performance
   equipment that is associated with each respective zone.       In some cases, the zones may
   simply be identified and a corresponding association with assets (e.g., sensors and task
   performance equipment) may also be programmed to correlate each asset to one of the
   zones (or multiple ones of the zones) without any need for association of the zones with
20 any map data. However, in some embodiments, the parcel 200 may be defined in terms of
   corresponding map data and the zones may be defined with respect to the map data. In
   such an example, a display similar to that illustrated in FIG. 2 may be provided to
   represent the parcel 200. In examples where map data is not desired or otherwise used, the
   image of FIG. 2 may merely represent the physical layout of the assets, but the yard
25 maintenance manager 40 need not necessarily have an appreciation for the actual
   geographical layout. Instead, the yard maintenance manager 40 may be configured to just
   maintain data associations between information received, the zones to which the data
   correlates, and the assets in the zones.       As mentioned above, the yard maintenance
   manager 40 may also have the ability to record (or retrieve) information regarding
30 desirable growing conditions where such information is either programmed directly by the
   operator or is accessed based on an identification of the plant life that resides within the
   corresponding zone.
            In some embodiments, for example, the memory 114 may store a parcel descriptor
   file including map data defining boundaries of the parcel 200, boundaries of the zones

   WO 2015/022654                                                          PCT/IB2014/063898
                                               11
   and/or location information identifying the location of assets (e.g., sensor equipment 30
   and task performance equipment 20) located on the parcel 200.            In some cases, the
   locations and/or boundaries may be identified based on GPS coordinates, triangulation
   using radio becons or distance/direction from another known locations, objects or
 5 positions. Image data may be used to confirm or assist in finding boundaries in some
   situations.   Alternatively or additionally, boundary and/or location information may be
   learned (e.g., by a robot or other device driving or being pushed proximate to the boundary
   or location and noting the same (e.g., using RFID technology or the like)).         When a
   boundary or device location is encountered, the map data of the parcel descriptor file may
10 be accessed (via the processing circuitry 110) to record the corresponding information in
   association therewith.    As such, in some embodiments, the boundary wire defining the
   work area of a robot may correspond to the boundary of one or more of the zones.
            Accordingly, the memory 114 may store information indicative of the zones. The
   information may, in some cases, include a geographic description of the zone.            The
15 information may also include a description of the plant life within the zone or a description
   of the growing conditions preferred for the plant life within the zone. In some cases, the
   sensors within the zone may be set (or recommended for setting) to a specific depth or
   otherwise configured in a specific way based on the plant life within the zone.           For
   example, moisture sensors for plants with shallow roots may be kept shallow, and
20 moisture sensors for plants with deep roots may be provided at a deeper depth.           The
   memory 114 may store depth parameters (actual or recommended) in some cases.
            In the example of FIG. 2, a fixed asset paradigm (e.g., fixed sensors and in some
   cases at least some fixed task performance equipment) may be employed. Accordingly, in
   this example, each zone may have its own corresponding fixed sensor equipment and task
25 performance equipment associated therewith.           For example, moisture sensor 250
   (indicated by a cross) may be accompanied by a corresponding sprinkler 260 (indicated by
   a star). Other crosses may represent other sensors (e.g., moisture sensors), and other stars
   may represent other task performance equipment (e.g., sprinklers) associated with other
   zones. In such an example, each sensor may be associated with a corresponding zone, and
30 each sprinkler may also be associated with a corresponding zone.           For example, the
   moisture sensor 250 is associated with the second active zone 230 and the sprinkler 260 is
   also associated with the second active zone 230.
            In some embodiments, a single sensor of any given type may be associated with a
   given zone. Thus, in such an example, although the second active zone 230 shows one

   WO 2015/022654                                                         PCT/IB2014/063898
                                               12
   moisture sensor 250, a pH sensor, a temperature sensor, a camera, and/or a light sensor
   could also be included in the second active zone 230. By providing only one sensor of any
   given type per zone, the sensor data gathered from each respective sensor may be easily
   understood to represent the conditions, relative to each condition sensed by one of the
 5 respective sensors, for the entirety of the zone. In such an example, one piece of task
   performance equipment of any given type may also be employed in the simplest examples
   (as shown for the garden and the plant bed in FIG. 2). Moreover, in some cases, there may
   be one piece of task performance equipment associated with each respective sensor of a
   given type. In fact, in some cases, there may be a limit to the distance that is permitted to
10 be placed between a sensor of a given type (e.g., a moisture sensor) and a piece of task
   performance equipment that corresponds to the sensor (e.g., a sprinkler).          Thus, for
   example, each moisture sensor may be no more than a given distance from a
   corresponding sprinkler, and a pairing may be made therebetween. Moreover, in some
   cases, the sprinkler and moisture sensor may be integrated with each other. However, it
15 should be appreciated that, dependent upon the characteristics of the task performance
   equipment (and potential obstacles), it may be desirable for multiple pieces of task
   performance equipment to be provided in one or more of the zones, or in association with
   a sensor of a given type.      Similarly, it may be desirable for multiple sensors to be
   associated with a single piece of task performance equipment.
20          In other embodiments, multiple sensors (even of a given type) and multiple pieces
   of task performance equipment (even of a given type - lighting element, watering device,
   fertilizer, trimmer, mower, camera, etc.) may be associated with a given zone. However, it
   should be appreciated that in such an embodiment, the associations of different assets
   within the zone may effectively (or actually) create sub-zones that can be collectively or
25 individually managed. The fifth active zone 240 is an example of such a zone.
            For physical connections made between assets, wiring and/or hose connections for
   power, communication or other sourcing services may be accomplished in any desirable
   fashion. In some cases, such connections may be programmed into or otherwise known by
   the yard maintenance manager 40.         Wireless communications (if employed) may be
30 accomplished by short range or other radios that may be in communication with sensors or
   other assets. For example, Bluetooth, WiFi, Zigbee, RFID (near field communication),
   GSM, or other proprietary or standard based communication mechanisms may be
   employed. In some embodiments, if one or more sensors are collocated with each other or
   with task performance equipment, a group of devices may communicate with a

   WO 2015/022654                                                          PCT/IB2014/063898
                                              13
   communication hub (which may be one of the sensors or devices) and the hub may
   wirelessly (or via wired connection) report data to the yard maintenance manager 40 for
   all such devices. Power may also be supplied locally by battery or solar cells that may be
   disposed proximate to one or more of the assets, or by power cables routed to one or more
 5 of the assets. In examples where boundary wires are employed, power for some devices
   may be provided by the boundary wires.
           When the assets include sprinklers, the sprinklers may be provided with water from
   one or more hose or pipe connections. In some cases, multiple sprinklers may be sourced
   from the same hose (e.g., in series or parallel). Control over sprinkler operations may be
10 accomplished by charging the hose without local control or by charging the hose and
   taking individual control over valves or actuators provided for local control of each
   sprinkler via electronic control.
           In some examples, cabling for power and/or communication may be integrated
   with water hose or pipe connections. In this regard, for example, if pipe segments are
15 employed for providing water to sprinklers, the pipe segments may be molded to have
   conduit or wire runs provided therein with connections between conduit or wire runs and
   the pipe segments when fitting is accomplished with adjacent pieces. As an alternative, if
   hoses are used, the hoses may have cable integrated therewith. Accordingly, regardless of
   the specific structure employed, both water and electrical energy/signal transfer (for power
20 or communication purposes) may be accomplished via one integrated structure.
           FIG. 8 illustrates an example of such a structure. In this regard, FIG. 8 illustrates a
   hose or pipe 800 with integrated electrical wires 810 and 812 in accordance with an
   example embodiment. As shown in FIG. 8, the integrated electrical wires 810 and 812
   may be disposed on opposing sides of the hose or pipe 800. However, the integrated
25 electrical wires 810 and 812 could alternatively be positioned in other orientations
   including next to each other. In some cases, one of the integrated electrical wires 810 and
   812 may be used for power distribution and data transfer, and the other of the integrated
   electrical wires 810 and 812 may be used as return (ground). In some cases, a third wire
   may be used for separation of power distribution and data transfer, whilst a common return
30 wire is used.
           In some examples, the hose or pipe 800 may be coupled to a controllable device
   such as a sprinkler head 820. The sprinkler head 820 may be operable responsive to
   control inputs provided via a control unit 830 which could include a controllable on/off

   WO 2015/022654                                                           PCT/IB2014/063898
                                                14
   valve. The control unit 830 may operate responsive to control from a watering computer
   configured to control various watering devices.
            In some cases, the sprinkler head 820 and control unit 830 may be mated with the
   hose or pipe 800 by providing a hole in a side portion of the hose or pipe 800 and
 5 providing a hinged clamp 840 to attach to the hose or pipe 800 while connecting the hole
   to the sprinkler head 820 and control unit 830. The hinged clamp 840 may be shaped to
   engage both the hose or pipe 800 and the integrated electrical wires 810 and 812.
            In some embodiments, watering (or some other task) may be commenced and the
   system 10 may employ the sensor equipment 30 to monitor the distribution of the water
10 (or fertilizer, etc.). The sensor equipment 30 may then be used to provide feedback via the
   yard maintenance manager 40 to direct more or less watering (or other resource
   utilization) in certain areas. The sensor equipment 30 may also be used to ensure that
   synchronization or sequencing can occur relative to the tasks performed on the parcel 200.
   For example, mowing can be secured while watering occurs in a given zone, or mowing
15 can be planned a specific given time after watering has been accomplished. Moreover,
   since the sensor equipment 30 can detect natural watering (e.g., rain) and irrigation efforts,
   the yard maintenance manager 40 may be enabled to manage resource consumption to
   optimize water consumption. For example, if a rain event is detected, watering may be
   postponed. In some cases, the magnitude of a rain event may also be detected so that
20 watering postponement may be accomplished for a time that is proportional to the amount
   of rain received. In still further examples, if the network 50 enables the yard maintenance
   manager 40 to obtain weather forecast information (e.g., from the Internet), then watering
   may be postponed even if a rain event has not yet occurred (e.g., if the rain event is
   forecast to occur within a given time period of an otherwise scheduled or apparently
25 needed watering event). Thus, for example, the yard maintenance manager 40 may access
   weather information from sites associated with the location of the parcel 200, or the yard
   maintenance manager 40 may be enabled to utilize a subscription to a weather service to
   obtain forecast information.
            As discussed above, the sensor equipment 30 and the task performance equipment
30 20 may be integrated together via a number of different methods. FIGS. 3 to 5 illustrate
   some examples.        In this regard, FIG. 3 illustrates a simple water migration path with
   power provided to sensors remotely (e.g., by battery or solar cell). As shown in FIG. 3, a
   water source 400 may be used to charge a water line 410.          A first sprinkler 420 and a
   second sprinkler 422 may receive water from the water line 410. The water line 410 may

   WO 2015/022654                                                          PCT/IB2014/063898
                                                15
   be selectively charged to provide water for spraying from the first and second sprinklers
   420 and 422. Alternatively, a local controller may be provided to be activated by wired or
   wireless connection from the yard maintenance manager 40. Regardless of how water is
   provided, each of the first and second sprinklers 420 and 422 may have a corresponding
 5 sensor (e.g., first sensor 430 and second sensor 432, respectively) associated therewith.
            FIG. 4 illustrates an alternative water migration path where power is provided to
   sensor equipment and task performance equipment (e.g., sprinklers and lights such as light
   540) via an integrated water line 510 and power/communication line 512. In this example,
   a power source 502 may be provided in addition to the water source 500. As shown in
10 FIG. 5, the water source 500 may be used to charge the water line 510 that is integrated
   with the power/communication line 512. A first sprinkler 520 and a second sprinkler 522
   may receive water and power/communication from the integrated water line 510 and
   power/communication line 512.         Thus, for example, the integrated water line 510 and
   power/communication line 512 may represent an integrated electric and water provision
15 system. A communication link 540 between the first and second sprinklers 520 and 522
   and the first and second sensors 530 and 532, respectively, may be either a wired or
   wireless communication link.
            FIG. 5 illustrates a modified example embodiment in which the communication
   with the yard maintenance manager 40 (e.g., via network 50) is further illustrated. As
20 shown in FIG. 5, the yard maintenance manager 40 may communicate with the water
   source 500 and/or the power source 502 to control operation of the sprinklers and/or the
   sensors. However, as shown in FIG. 5, in some cases, the sprinklers and sensors that are
   proximate to each other may each communicate with a local hub 600. The hub 600 may
   then communicate with the yard maintenance manager 40 via the network 50.                 An
25 operator may also interact with the system via the network using a remote terminal 610
   (e.g., a computer or smart phone).
            In some embodiments, conversion modules may be provided to enable backward
   compatibility with existing systems. In this regard, for example, where legacy equipment
   is already installed, RFID tags may be installed, or additional components consistent with
30 those described herein may be installed and all converted or programmed information
   regarding such devices may be provided to the yard maintenance manager 40. The yard
   maintenance manager 40 may then operate the system in connection with the legacy
   equipment. The hubs 600 may be used as local communication devices or translators that
   can function to implement the backward compatibility.

   WO 2015/022654                                                          PCT/IB2014/063898
                                               16
            In an example embodiment, the memory 114 may store (or the processor 112 may
   otherwise access) the database (e.g., a plant ID database) described above. Such database
   may correlate certain plants to the corresponding growing conditions that are ideal or
   preferred for optimal growth. As described above, current conditions may be monitored
 5 by the sensor equipment 30 and compared to the information in the database to determine
   any corrective action to be taken via the task performance equipment 20. Reduced costs
   and reduced environmental impact may therefore be achieved while achieving more
   optimal growing conditions.
            In some cases, the yard maintenance manager 40 may take automated action to
10 improve growing conditions by controlling watering, fertilizing, cutting, lighting or other
   activities based on a determination that current conditions are not optimal. However, in
   other situations, the yard maintenance manager 40 may be configured to provide an alert
   or instructions locally or via a smart phone or other remote device, to instruct or otherwise
   inform the owner/operator that some changes to current conditions may be advisable. The
15 specific actions recommended may be identified, or an alert to check certain conditions
   may be provided. Camera data may also be used to activate certain components to chase
   away undesirable wild life under certain circumstances. For example, a sprinkler could be
   turned on to encourage a deer to move away from a plant that would otherwise be
   damaged from grazing.        Accordingly, a relatively robust system for control of yard
20 conditions (e.g., garden or lawn conditions) may be provided in an automated fashion.
   The result may be deemed to operate as a "smart garden" that provides efficient control to
   achieve optimal growing conditions.
            In some embodiments, the operator may interact with the yard maintenance
   manager 40 via the user interfaces described herein or via the remote terminal 131. Some
25 of the task performance equipment 20 may also have user interfaces.          For example, a
   watering system may include one or more sprinklers with a common control unit that is
   regarded as part of the task performance equipment 20.       Configuration of the common
   control unit or other such specific equipment may be handled locally at the equipment and
   then transferred to the yard maintenance manager 40 to be incorporated into the system
30 configuration database.     Thus, there may be additional user interfaces over and above
   those described herein.
            In some embodiments, the yard maintenance manager 40 may be further modified
   to include task performance equipment control circuitry 41 as shown in the example of
   FIG. 6. The task performance equipment control circuitry 41 may be embodied as or by a

   WO 2015/022654                                                          PCT/IB2014/063898
                                              17
   separate processor or may be embodied by configuration of the processing circuitry 110 of
   the yard maintenance manager 40. In any case, the task performance equipment control
   circuitry 41 may interface with the task performance equipment 20 either directly or via
   the network 50, as shown in FIG. 6 to control the task performance equipment 20.
 5         Embodiments of the present invention may therefore be practiced using an
   apparatus such as the one depicted in FIG. 1. However, other embodiments may be
   practiced in connection with a computer program product for performing embodiments of
   the present invention. As such, for example, each block or step of the flowcharts of FIG.
   7, and combinations of blocks in the flowchart, may be implemented by various means,
10 such as hardware, firmware, processor, circuitry and/or another device associated with
   execution of software including one or more computer program instructions.         Thus, for
   example, one or more of the procedures described above may be embodied by computer
   program instructions, which may embody the procedures described above and may be
   stored by a storage device (e.g., memory 114) and executed by processing circuitry (e.g.,
15 processor 112).
            As will be appreciated, any such stored computer program instructions may be
   loaded onto a computer or other programmable apparatus (i.e., hardware) to produce a
   machine, such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable
   apparatus implement the functions specified in the flowchart block(s) or step(s).      These
20 computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer-readable medium
   comprising memory that may direct a computer or other programmable apparatus to
   function in a particular manner, such that the instructions stored in the computer-readable
   memory produce an article of manufacture including instructions to implement the
   function specified in the flowchart block(s) or step(s). The computer program instructions
25 may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable apparatus to cause a series of
   operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to
   produce a computer-implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the
   computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions
   specified in the flowchart block(s) or step(s).     In this regard, a method according to
30 example embodiments of the invention may include any or all of the operations shown in
   FIG. 7. Moreover, other methods derived from the descriptions provided herein may also
   be performed responsive to execution of steps associated with such methods by a
   computer programmed to be transformed into a machine specifically configured to
   perform such methods.

   WO 2015/022654                                                         PCT/IB2014/063898
                                               18
           In an example embodiment, a method for providing smart garden management, as
   shown in FIG. 7, may include receiving sensor data from sensor equipment including one
   or more sensors disposed on a parcel of land at operation 700, determining current
   conditions on the parcel based on the sensor data at operation 710, comparing the current
 5 conditions to desirable conditions associated with vegetation planted on the parcel of land
   at operation 720, and providing at least one instruction relative to operation of task
   performance equipment configured to perform a task on the parcel, the task being
   associated with generating a result that is enabled to be monitored via the sensor
   equipment at operation 730.
10         In an example embodiment, an apparatus for performing the method of FIG. 7
   above may comprise a processor (e.g., the processor 112) configured to perform some or
   each of the operations (700-730) described above. The processor 112 may, for example,
   be configured to perform the operations (700-730) by performing hardware implemented
   logical functions, executing stored instructions, or executing algorithms for performing
15 each of the operations. Alternatively, the apparatus may comprise means for performing
   each of the operations described above.         In this regard, according to an example
   embodiment, examples of means for performing operations 700-730 may comprise, for
   example, the yard maintenance manager 40. Additionally or alternatively, at least by
   virtue of the fact that the processor 112 may be configured to control or even be embodied
20 as the yard maintenance manager 40, the processor 112 and/or a device or circuitry for
   executing instructions or executing an algorithm for processing information as described
   above may also form example means for performing operations 700-730.
           In some embodiments, additional optional operations may be included or the
   operations described above may be modified or augmented.            Each of the additional
25 operations, modification or augmentations may be practiced in combination with the
   operations above and/or in combination with each other. Thus, some, all or none of the
   additional operations, modification or augmentations described herein may be utilized in
   some embodiments.         In this regard, in some cases, one or more sensors and task
   performance equipment employed in the method may be disposed within a predetermined
30 distance of each other so that each may receive power from a same source. In some cases,
   the one or more sensors that are employed in the method may be powered from local
   sources such as battery or solar cells. In an example embodiment, the one or more sensors
   and the task performance equipment employed in the method may be in communication
   with a yard maintenance manager via wireless communication facilitated by a

   WO 2015/022654                                                        PCT/IB2014/063898
                                               19
   communication hub.      In some examples, the parcel may be divided into a plurality of
   zones and each zone may be associated with at least one sensor and at least one device of
   the task performance equipment.       In some cases, the yard maintenance manager may
   include processing circuitry storing map data descriptive of the parcel and each of the
 5 zones is defined by a corresponding geographic description relative to the map data. In an
   example embodiment, each of the zones may be associated with plant data corresponding
   to at least one plant within a respective one of the zones, and the plant data may define
   desirable parameters for growth of the at least one plant. In some embodiments, the yard
   maintenance manager may compare the measured conditions from the at least one sensor
10 of a particular zone to the plant data associated with the particular zone to determine
   whether to control the task performance equipment relative to the particular zone to alter
   conditions in the particular zone. In an example embodiment, the sensor equipment and
   the task performance equipment may be fixed within the parcel.             In an example
   embodiment, the yard maintenance manager may be configured to synchronize or
15 sequence operation of different types of devices of the task performance equipment. In
   some cases, the yard maintenance manager communicates with the sensor equipment or
   the task performance equipment via a communication network for automated control over
   the task performance equipment.        In some examples, the yard maintenance manager
   communicates with an operator via a remote terminal to suggest operator interaction with
20 the task performance equipment.        In an example embodiment, the sensor equipment
   receives power and a sprinkler component of the task performance equipment receives
   water via an integrated electric and water provision system.
           Many modifications and other embodiments of the inventions set forth herein will
   come to mind to one skilled in the art to which these inventions pertain having the benefit
25 of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings.
   Therefore, it is to be understood that the inventions are not to be limited to the specific
   embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be
   included within the scope of the appended claims.        Moreover, although the foregoing
   descriptions and the associated drawings describe exemplary embodiments in the context
30 of certain exemplary combinations of elements and/or functions, it should be appreciated
   that different combinations of elements and/or functions may be provided by alternative
   embodiments without departing from the scope of the appended claims. In this regard, for
   example, different combinations of elements and/or functions than those explicitly
   described above are also contemplated as may be set forth in some of the appended claims.

In cases where advantages, benefits or solutions to problems are described herein, it should be
appreciated that such advantages, benefits and/or solutions may be applicable to some example
embodiments, but not necessarily all example embodiments. Thus, any advantages, benefits
or solutions described herein should not be thought of as being critical, required or essential to
all embodiments or to that which is claimed herein. Although specific terms are employed
herein, they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.
        Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context requires
otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and "comprising", will be
understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but
not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
        The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as, an
acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the common general
knowledge in Australia.
                                                 20

                                           CLAIMS
         1.      A system comprising:
         sensor equipment including one or more sensors disposed on a parcel of land;
         task performance equipment configured to perform a task on the parcel, the task
being associated with generating a result that is enabled to be monitored via the sensor
equipment; and
         a yard maintenance manager that is a computer device configured to interface with
the sensor equipment and the task performance equipment to compare measured
conditions with desirable conditions to direct operation of the task performance
equipment,
         wherein the parcel is divided into a plurality of zones and each zone is associated
with at least one sensor and at least one device of the task performance equipment,
         and wherein the yard maintenance manager comprises processing circuitry storing
map data descriptive of the parcel and each of the zones is defined by a corresponding
geographic description relative to the map data.
         characterized in that,
         the yard maintenance manager is configured to synchronize or sequence operation
of the task performance equipment with at least one another device that is a different type
of task performance equipment,
         an owner/operator identifies the plants associated with each zone or the growing
conditions desired for each zone using an application configured to facilitate such
definition,
         wherein the task performance equipment is listed in a reource list associated with
each zone for which the equipment may provide services, so that the processing equipment
either directly operates assets from the resource list to achieve a desired outcome or may
provide instructions or suggestions to the owner/operator regarding the assetes from the
resource list that could be employed to achieve a desired outcome based on a comparison
of the measured or current conditions to the growing condition parameters associated with
the plants in the zone.
                                               21

         2.     The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more sensors and at least one
device of the task performance equipment that is within a predetermined distance thereof
receive power from a same source.
         3.     The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more sensors are powered from
local sources comprising battery or solar cells.
         4.     The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more sensors and at least one
device of the task performance equipment are in communication with the yard
maintenance manager via wireless communication facilitated by a communication hub.
         5.     The system of claim 1, wherein each of the zones is associated with plant
data corresponding to at least one plant within a respective one of the zones, and wherein
the plant data defines desirable parameters for growth of the at least one plant.
         6.     The system of claim 5, wherein the yard maintenance manager compares
the measured conditions from the at least one sensor of a particular zone to the plant data
associated with the particular zone to determine whether to control the task performance
equipment relative to the particular zone to alter conditions therein.
         7.     The system of claim 1, wherein the sensor equipment and the task
performance equipment are fixed within the parcel.
         8..    The system of claim 1, wherein the task performance equipment comprises
irrigation equipment and the at least one device that is the different type of task
performance equipment comprises a mower.
         9.     The system of claim 1, wherein the yard maintenance manager
communicates with the sensor equipment or the task performance equipment via a
communication network for automated control over the task performance equipment.
                                              22

         10.     The system of claim 1, wherein the yard maintenance manager
communicates with an operator via a remote terminal to suggest operator interaction with
the task performance equipment.
         11.     The system of claim 1, wherein the sensor equipment at least receives
power and a sprinkler component of the task performance equipment at least receives
water via an integrated electric and water provision system.
         12.     A method comprising:
        receiving sensor data from sensor equipment including one or more sensors
disposed on a parcel of land;
        determining, by a computer system, current conditions on the parcel based on the
sensor data;
        comparing, by a computer system, the current conditions to desirable conditions
associated with vegetation planted on the parcel of land; and
        providing, by a computer system, at least one instruction relative to operation of
task performance equipment configured to perform a task on the parcel, the task being
associated with generating a result that is enabled to be monitored via the sensor
equipment,
        wherein the parcel is divided into a plurality of zones and each zone is associated
with at least one sensor and at least one device of the task performance equipment,
        and wherein a yard maintenance manager comprises processing circuitry
configured to store map data descriptive of the parcel and each of the zones is defined by a
corresponding geographic description relative to the map data,
        characterized in that
        at least one instruction comprises synchronizing or sequencing operation of the
task performance equipment with at least one another device that is a different type of task
performance equipment is provided,
        and an owner/operator identifies the plants associated with each zone or the
growing conditions desired for each zone using an application configred to facilitate such
definition,
        wherein the task performace equipment is listed in a recource list associated with
each zone for which the equipment may provide services, so that the processing
                                              23

equipmenteither directly operates assets from the resource list to achieve a desired
outcome or may provide instructions or suggestions to the owner/operator regarding the
assetes from the resource list that could be employed to achieve a desired outcome based
on a comparison of the measured or current contitions to the growing condition paraneters
associated with the plants in the zone.
         13.    The method of claim 12, wherein sensors of the sensor equipment and at
least one device of the task performance equipment are provided within a predetermined
distance of each other and receive power from a same source.
         14.    The method of claim 12, wherein the sensor equipment is powered from
local sources comprising battery or solar cells.
         15.    The method of claim 12, wherein sensor equipment and at least one device
of the task performance equipment are in communication with a yard maintenance
manager configured to provide the at least one instruction via wireless communication
facilitated by a communication hub.
         16.    The method of claim 12, wherein the parcel is divided into a plurality of
zones and each zone is associated with at least one sensor and at least one device of the
task performance equipment.
         17.    The method of claim 16, wherein each of the zones is associated with plant
data corresponding to at least one plant within a respective one of the zones, and wherein
the plant data defines desirable parameters for growth of the at least one plant.
         18.    The method of claim 17, wherein the yard maintenance manager compares
the measured conditions from the at least one sensor of a particular zone to the plant data
associated with the particular zone to determine whether to control the task performance
equipment relative to the particular zone to alter conditions therein.
         19.    The method of claim 12, wherein the sensor equipment and the task
performance equipment are fixed within the parcel.
                                              24

        20.     The method of claim 12, wherein the task performance equipment
comprises irrigation equipment and the at least one device that is the different type of task
performance equipment comprises a mower.
        21.     The method of claim 12, further comprising enabling a yard maintenance
manager to communicate with the sensor equipment or the task performance equipment
via a communication network for automated control over the task performance equipment.
        22.     The method of claim 12, further comprising enabling a yard maintenance
manager to communicate with an operator via a remote terminal to suggest operator
interaction with the task performance equipment.
        23.     The method of claim 12, wherein the sensor equipment at least receives
power and a sprinkler component of the task performance equipment at least receives
water via an integrated electric and water provision system.
                                             25

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
