                                          14
                                     ABSTRACT
A bed base for a bed frame comprising: a pair of side rail assemblies configured to
connect to a headboard and a footboard, each side assembly having an inner
surface comprising a series of elongate slots; a plurality of bed slats extending
between the pair of side rail assemblies and engaged within the elongate slots; and a
support member comprising a horizontal span configured to connect to the pair of
side rail assemblies, and ground-engaging legs extending from the horizontal span.
Fig. 2

                  0N
     ton
                         r
              LO,
         CYCo
m
  rI
           C,              0
           m               U,
                     rLO

                                          1
                          A BED BASE FOR A BED FRAME
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]      The present invention relates to a bed base for a bed frame.
BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION
[0002]      Assembly flat pack furniture can be difficult and require a significant
physical effort for some customers and time-consuming. For complex furniture
items, at least two people may be required to perform assembly of such furniture
items.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0003]      The inventive concept arises from a recognition that reducing the time
to assemble large flat pack furniture items, for example, a bed frame, is beneficial
for users. The packaging of flat pack furniture items should remain as compact as
possible to facilitate easy and convenient transport of items from a retail store to
the user's premises.
[0004]      The present invention, in one aspect, comprises a bed base for a bed
frame. The bed base comprises a pair of side rail assemblies configured to
connect to a headboard and a footboard. Each side assembly has an inner
surface comprising a series of elongate slots. The bed base also comprises a
plurality of bed slats extending between the pair of side rail assemblies and
engaged within the elongate slots. The bed base also comprises a support
member comprising a horizontal span configured to connect to the pair of side rail
assemblies. The support member also comprises ground-engaging legs
extending from the horizontal span.

                                             2
[0005]      Each side rail assembly may comprise at least two side rail elements
interconnected to the support member.
[0006]      The bed base may further comprise first side rail brackets configured
to securely engage a first distal end of each side rail element to the headboard or
footboard. The bed base may further comprise second side rail brackets
configured to securely engage a second distal end of each side rail element to the
support member.
[0007]      The second side rail bracket may comprise a hooked portion
configured to rest on an upper surface of the horizontal span.
[0008]      The support member may be positioned approximately at the middle of
the side rail assembly.
[0009]      The legs of the support member may be positioned at a predetermined
offset distance inwardly from the pair of side rail assemblies.
[0010]      An upper surface of the horizontal span may be substantially co-planar
with an upper surface of the bed slats.
[0011]      The present invention, in another aspect, comprises a method for
assembling a bed frame. The method comprises securely engaging a headboard
to a support member using a first side rail element. The method also comprises
securely engaging a footboard to the support member using a second side rail
element. The method also comprises connecting a first set of bed slats to a first
set of slots on an inner side of the first side rail element using a temporary
support to maintain the elevation of the first set of bed slats. The method also
comprises connecting the first set of bed slats to a second set of slots on an inner
side of a third side rail element. The method also comprises securely engaging
the third side rail element to the support member. The method also comprises
connecting a second set of bed slats to a third set of slots on an inner side of the

                                             3
second side rail element using the temporary support to maintain the elevation of
the second set of bed slats. The method also comprises connecting the second
set of bed slats to a fourth set of slots on an inner side of a fourth side rail
element. The method also comprises securely engaging the fourth side rail
element to the support member.
[0012]       The present invention, in yet another aspect, comprises a kit for
assembling a bed frame. The kit comprises a headboard. The kit also comprises
a footboard. The kit also comprises a bed base. The bed base comprises a pair of
side rail assemblies configured to connect to the headboard and the footboard.
Each side assembly having an inner surface comprising a series of elongate
slots. The bed base comprises a plurality of bed slats extending between the pair
of side rail assemblies and engaged within the elongate slots. The bed base
comprises a support member comprising a horizontal span configured to connect
to the pair of side rail assemblies, and ground-engaging legs extending from the
horizontal span. The kit also comprises a temporary support configured to
maintain the elevation of the bed slats relative to the elongate slots of the side rail
assemblies during assembly of the bed base.
[0013]       Other advantages and features according to the invention will be
apparent to those of ordinary skill upon reading this application.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0014]       Embodiments of the invention will be described with respect to the
figures, in which like reference numbers denote like elements and in which:
[0015]       Fig. 1 is a perspective view from above of a bed frame depicting a
headboard, footboard and bed base with a support member;
[0016]       Fig. 2 is a perspective view from above of the bed base;

                                            4
[0017]      Fig. 3 is a perspective view of parts of the bed frame in flat pack form;
[0018]      Fig. 4 is a rear view of the bed frame;
[0019]      Fig. 5 is a front view of the bed frame;
[0020]      Fig. 6 is a perspective view of the assembled bed frame;
[0021]      Fig. 7 is a side view of the assembled bed frame;
[0022]      Fig. 8 is a perspective view of a pair of side rail assemblies, a support
member, bed slats and a temporary support for maintaining the elevation of bed
slats during engagement to a side rail assembly during construction of the bed
frame;
[0023]      Fig. 9 is a perspective view of a step depicting the assembly of a side
rail assembly to a headboard and the support member;
[0024]      Fig. 10 is a perspective view of a step depicting the assembly of a side
rail assembly to a footboard and the support member;
[0025]      Fig. 11 is a perspective view of constructing a temporary support and a
step depicting the assembly of bed slats to a side rail assembly using a temporary
support to maintain the elevation of the bed slats relative to a series of slots on
the inner surface of the side rail assembly;
[0026]      Fig. 12 is a perspective view of a step depicting the assembly of a side
rail assembly to a headboard and a support member and to bed slats engaged to
an opposing side rail assembly using a temporary support;

                                            5
[0027]      Fig. 13 is a perspective view of a step depicting the assembly of bed
slats to a side rail assembly using a temporary support to maintain the elevation
of the bed slats relative to a series of slots on the inner surface of the side rail
assembly; and
[0028]      Fig. 14 is a perspective view of fastening a side rail assembly to a
headboard and a support member.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0029]      A preferred bed frame according to the present invention is illustrated
in Fig. 6 and shown generally at reference numeral 10.
[0030]      Referring to Fig. 3, the user receives the parts for the bed frame 10 in
flat pack form. The user assembles the footboard 30 with two footboard legs. The
user assembles the headboard 20 has two headboard legs. Next, the bed base
40 is assembled by the user.
[0031]      Referring to Fig. 2, two sets of bed slats 46 are provided which span
the width of the bed base 40. In one embodiment, there are two sets of seven bed
slats 46 providing a total of fourteen bed slats 46. In a preferred embodiment, the
bed slats 46 are made from solid timber to provide superior support beneath a
single size mattress that is to be placed on the bed slats 46. The rigidity and
strength of the bed slats 46 is very important as they are load bearing. If there is a
high degree of flexing this may generate irritating noise such as creaking sounds
from the flexing of the bed slats or from the slight movement of the bed slats at
the location of engagement between the bed slats and the slots 39.
[0032]      There are a pair of side rail assemblies for the left and right sides of
the bed base 40. Each side rail assembly comprises two side rail elements 41,
42, 43, 44 interconnected by a support member 45. In another embodiment, there

                                           6
may be more than two side rail elements 41, 42, 43, 44 per side rail assembly
which may require additional support members 45 for interconnection.
[0033]      At one end of each side rail element 41, 42, 43, 44 a right angle
bracket 50, for example, an L-bracket, is attached to securely connect the side
rail element 41, 42, 43, 44 with either the headboard 20 or footboard 30. At the
opposite end of each side rail element 41, 42, 43, 44 a right angle bracket with a
hook member 51 is attached to securely connect the side rail element 41 with the
support member 45. The right angle brackets 50, 51 may be pre-assembled onto
the side rail elements 41, 42, 43, 44. This avoids the user from fastening the
brackets 50, 51 onto the side rail elements 41, 42, 43, 44 which means the user
only needs to use fasteners to fasten the brackets 50, 51 to the headboard 20,
footboard 30 and support member 45, thus saving time. The L-bracket 50
depicted shows three holes, however, only two holes are used to secure it to the
headboard 20. This may permit some height adjustment of the bed base 40
relative to the headboard 20 and footboard 340.
[0034]      Along the inner side of the side rail elements 41, 42, 43, 44 are a
series of elongate slots 39 or receptacles shaped and sized to receive the ends of
bed slats 46 for engagement. The slots 39 are pre-drilled and evenly spaced
apart from each other on the side rail element 41, 42, 43, 44.
[0035]      The support member 45 comprises two ground-engaging legs 57
connected to a horizontal span 26 of the same length as a bed slat 46. In one
embodiment, the support member 45 is pre-assembled with the horizontal span
26 connected to the legs 57. The support member 45 has pre-drilled holes 46 at
its end portions to receive fasteners for securely connect the support member 45
to the right angle brackets with a hook member 51. The hook member rests on
the top surface of the support member 45. Weight on the side rail elements 41,
42, 43, 44 is supported by the support member 45 in addition to the fasteners
passing through the right angle brackets 50 and into pre-drilled holes 21 of the
headboard 20 and footboard 30. The ground-engaging legs 47 are spaced at an
inward offset from the distal ends of the horizontal span 46. This avoids a user

                                             7
accidentally stubbing their toe on the ground-engaging legs 47 if they are near the
middle of the side of the bed frame 10.
[0036]       The method for assembling the bed base 40 is described and depicted
in Figs. 9 to 14. The headboard 20 is securely engaged to the support member 47
using a first side rail element 44 (see Fig. 9). The footboard 30 is securely
engaged to the support member 47 using a second side rail element 43 (see Fig.
 10). A first set of bed slats 46 is connected to a first set of slots 39 on an inner
side of the first side rail element 44 using a temporary support 80 to maintain the
elevation of the first set of bed slats 46 (see Fig. 11).
[0037]        Referring to Figs. 8 and 11 to 14, in one embodiment, the temporary
support 80 is made of three pieces of cardboard 81, 84. The cardboard may be
from the packaging material of the bed frame 10 in flat pack form used for
transport. The packaging material may have a perforated region corresponding to
the shape of the three pieces 81, 84 of the temporary support 80. The three
pieces 81, 84 of cardboard comprises a horizontal span 81 with recessed edging
82 along its upper surface. The bed slats 46 rest on the recesses on the upper
surface of the horizontal span 81 which prevents lateral movement of the bed
slats 46 so they cannot slide around as the bed slats 46 are pushed into the
series of slots 39 for connection. These recesses are a series of rebates made
along the upper edge of the horizontal span 81 and are arranged to correspond to
the series of the slots 39 with matched spacing to facilitate the alignment of the
bed slats 46 to the slots 39 prior to the bed slats 46 being pushed into to the slots
39.
[0038]       The remaining two pieces of cardboard are legs 84 which are
connected to the horizontal span 81. The horizontal span 81 may have vertical
slots about half the height of the horizontal span 81 and the legs 84 may have
vertical slots 85 to enable a push fit connection between the horizontal span 81
and legs 84. The temporary support 80 is configured to support the bed slats 46
while the bed base 40 is assembled. After the temporary support 80 is used to
connect the two sets of bed slats 46 to the side rail elements 41, 42, 43, 44 it may

                                             8
be discarded, recycled or retained for future use. In other possible embodiments,
the temporary support 80 may be made from timber offcuts rather than
cardboard.
[0039]       Next in the method of assembling the bed base 40, the first set of bed
slats 46 is connected to a second set of slots 39 on an inner side of a third side
rail element 42 (see Fig. 12). The third side rail element 42 is securely engaged to
the support member 75. A second set of bed slats 46 is connected to a third set
of slots 39 on an inner side of the second side rail element 43 using the
temporary support 80 to maintain the elevation of the second set of bed slats 36.
The second set of bed slats 46 is connected to a fourth set of slots on an inner
side of a fourth side rail element 41 (see Fig. 13). The fourth side rail element 41
is securely engaged to the support member 75 and the headboard 20 (see Fig.
 14). Although it has been described that the side rail elements are connected to
the headboard 20 or footboard 30 or support member 75 in particular order, it is
possible for the side rail elements to be connected to the headboard 20 or
footboard 30 in a different order.
[0040]       Advantageously, in one embodiment, the flat pack form of the bed
frame 10 has the following components pre-assembled: the side rail elements 41,
42, 43, 44 with the brackets 50, 51 and the support member 75.
[0041]       Referring to Figs. 4 to 6, the assembled bed frame 10 is depicted. The
dimensions of the bed frame 10 may be 1900mm X 920mm.
[0042]       In a preferred embodiment, the assembled bed frame 10 is a single
size bed frame that can be packaged and transported in small packages (e.g.
headboard 20, footboard 30, side rail elements, bed slats 46 and support member
75) to facilitate easier transport from a warehouse or retail shop to the customer's
premises. By separating the bed frame 10 into smaller components, the small
packages are easier to handle and assemble.

                                            9
[0043]       The bed frame 10 is preferably non-extendible meaning that it is a
standard size to fit a single mattress having dimensions of 900mm width and
 1900mm length. Therefore a uniquely sized mattress is not required for the bed
frame 10 which may lead to cost savings because the user can choose from a
large range of single size mattress designs from a plurality of bed mattress
vendors. Also for an extendible bed frame, there is likely to be a greater number
of moving parts that could lead to creaking with prolonged extended use and due
to disassembly/re-assembly should the user move premises. An extendible bed
frame may also have additional points of failure and reduced structural support
because at the locations where the extendibility is provided these locations may
lack rigidity. An extendible bed frame is typically able to change into three
different sizes (longer, wider or longer and wider) which requires three sets of bed
slats (greater width or greater quantity), and a uniquely sized mattresses
corresponding to each different size possible for the extendible bed frame. This
may lead to the user having to spend more money purchasing unique
components and be forced to store the additional components because some
may be used infrequently.
[0044]       Unless specified to the contrary, any and all components herein
described are understood to be capable of being manufactured and, as such,
may be manufactured together or separately.
[0045]       Moreover, in interpreting the disclosure, all terms should be interpreted
in the broadest reasonable manner consistent with the context. In particular, the
terms "comprises" and "comprising" should be interpreted as referring to
elements, components, or steps in a non-exclusive manner, indicating that the
referenced elements, components, or steps may be present, or utilized, or
combined with other elements, components, or steps that are not expressly
referenced.
[0046]       The subject headings used in the detailed description are included only
for the ease of reference of the reader and should not be used to limit the subject

                                            10
matter found throughout the disclosure or the claims. The subject headings
should not be used in construing the scope of the claims or the claim limitations.
[0047]       Although the technology herein has been described with reference to
particular examples, it is to be understood that these examples are merely
illustrative of the principles and applications of the technology. In some instances,
the terminology and symbols may imply specific details that are not required to
practice the technology. For example, although the terms "first" and "second" may
be used, unless otherwise specified, they are not intended to indicate any order
but may be utilised to distinguish between distinct elements.
[0048]       It is therefore to be understood that numerous modifications may be
made to the illustrative examples and that other arrangements may be devised
without departing from the spirit and scope of the technology.

                                          11
CLAIMS:
 1.    A bed base for a bed frame comprising:
       a pair of side rail assemblies configured to connect to a headboard and a
footboard, each side assembly having an inner surface comprising a series of
elongate slots;
       a plurality of bed slats extending between the pair of side rail assemblies
and engaged within the elongate slots; and
       a support member comprising a horizontal span configured to connect to
the pair of side rail assemblies, and ground-engaging legs extending from the
horizontal span.
2.     The bed base according to claim 1, wherein each side rail assembly
comprises at least two side rail elements interconnected to the support member.
3.     The bed base according to claim 2, further comprising first side rail
brackets configured to securely engage a first distal end of each side rail element
to the headboard or footboard, and second side rail brackets configured to
securely engage a second distal end of each side rail element to the support
member.
4.     The bed base according to claim 3, wherein the second side rail bracket
comprises a hooked portion configured to rest on an upper surface of the
horizontal span.
5.     The bed base according to claim 1, wherein the legs of the support
member are positioned at a predetermined offset distance inwardly from the pair
of side rail assemblies.

                                            12
6.      The bed base according to claim 1, wherein an upper surface of the
horizontal span is co-planar with an upper surface of the bed slats.
7.      A method for assembling a bed frame comprising:
        securely engaging a headboard to a support member using a first side rail
element;
        securely engaging a footboard to the support member using a second side
rail element;
        connecting a first set of bed slats to a first set of slots on an inner side of
the first side rail element using a temporary support to maintain the elevation of
the first set of bed slats;
        connecting the first set of bed slats to a second set of slots on an inner
side of a third side rail element;
        securely engaging the third side rail element to the support member;
        connecting a second set of bed slats to a third set of slots on an inner side
of the second side rail element using the temporary support to maintain the
elevation of the second set of bed slats;
        connecting the second set of bed slats to a fourth set of slots on an inner
side of a fourth side rail element; and
        securely engaging the fourth side rail element to the support member.
8.      A kit for assembling a bed frame, the kit comprising:

                                            13
        a headboard;
        a footboard;
        a bed base comprising:
               a pair of side rail assemblies configured to connect to the
headboard and the footboard, each side assembly having an inner surface
comprising a series of elongate slots;
               a plurality of bed slats extending between the pair of side rail
assemblies and engaged within the elongate slots; and
               a support member comprising a horizontal span configured to
connect to the pair of side rail assemblies, and ground-engaging legs extending
from the horizontal span;
        a temporary support configured to maintain the elevation of the bed slats
relative to the elongate slots of the side rail assemblies during assembly of the
bed base.

                                           
                                              
                                                        
           
 

                    
                       
                                                   
      
                                  
  <removed-date>   <removed-apn>

                                                                  
                                                                      
                                     
                                                             
            
                                         
                            
                        
                                               
                                                        
                                                             
                                                                            
                                                                          
                    
                                         
                                             
                                               
    <removed-date>   <removed-apn>

          <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
 
                                 
                                                 
                                           
                       
             

                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
     
                                    
             

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
 
                             

                      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
             
                                          
    
        
            


               <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
      

                 
                                      

                                           
   
                                               
            
                                                 
                             
        
                                              
                                                         
                                  
<removed-date>     <removed-apn>

                               <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                  

                           
                                      
         
             
     
                                                          

                         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
               
         
    
                                       
          

                     
                                           
                                 

                                    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                        
                                                   
            
                        
    

                

                               <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                 
                           
    
                                                     

                                    
        
            
                                            
                                                

                                   <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    
              
       
                              


                    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
          
    
                                   

                                           
                                       

