                                          ABSTRACT
 Title: METHODS AND DEVICES FOR THE TREATMENT OF OCULAR DISEASES IN
                                      HUMAN SUBJECTS
Methods and devices are provided for targeted non-surgical administration of a drug
formulation to the suprachoroidal space (SCS) of the eye of a human subject for the treatment
of a posterior ocular disorder or a choroidal malady. In one embodiment, the method
comprises inserting a hollow microneedle into the eye at an insertion site and infusing a drug
formulation through the inserted microneedle and into the suprachoroidal space of the eye,
wherein the infused drug formulation flows within the suprachoroidal space away from the
insertion site during the infusion. In one embodiment, the fluid drug formulation comprises
drug nanoparticles or microparticles.

  METHODS AND DEVICES FOR THE TREATMENT OF OCULAR DISEASES IN
                                       HUMAN SUBJECTS
                   CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001] The present application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application
No. 2013342275, the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
Australian Patent Application No. 2013342275 is the Australian National Phase Entry for
PCT application PCT/US2013/069156, which claims priority from U.S. Provisional
Application Serial Nos. 61/724,144, filed November 8, 2012; 61/734,872, filed December 7,
2012; 61/745,237, filed December 21, 2012; 61/773,124, filed March 05, 2013; 61/785,229,
filed March 14, 2013; 61/819,388, filed May 03, 2013; 61/873,660, filed September 4, 2013,
and 61/898,926, filed November 1, 2013, all of which are incorporated herein by reference in
their entireties for all purposes.
                              BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   [0002] This invention is generally in the field of ophthalmic therapies, and more particularly to
  the use of a microneedle for infusion of a fluid drug formulation into ocular tissues for targeted,
  local drug delivery.
   [0003] The delivery of drug to the eye is extremely difficult, particularly delivery of
  macromolecules and delivery to the posterior segment. Many inflammatory and proliferative
  diseases in the posterior region of the eye require long term pharmacological treatment.
  Examples of such diseases include macular degeneration., diabetic retinopathy, and uveitis. In
  addition, many      choroidal maladies    that are associated      with inflammatory     responses,
  proliferation, and neovascularization require long term. pharmacological treatment. It is difficult
  to deliver effective doses of drug to the posterior segment using conventional delivery methods
  such as topical application, which has poor efficacy, and systemic administration, which often
  causes significant side effects, and often does not reach the site of infection.        (Geroski &
  Edelhauser, Invest. Ophthalmol. Vis. Sci. 41:961-64 (2000)). For example, while eye drops are
  useful in treating conditions affecting the exterior surface of the eye or tissue(s) at die front of
  the eye, the eye drops cannot significantly penetrate the eye, as may be required for the treatment
  of various retinal diseases and choroidal maladies.
                                                   1

[0004] Direct injection into the eye, using conventional needles and syringes has been reported
to be effective, but requires professional training and raises concerns about safety (Maurice, J.
Ocul. Phannacol, Ther, 17:393-401 (2001)), It also would be desirable to be able to minimize
the number and/or frequency of eye injection treatments needed to deliver therapeutically
effective amounts of drug to the ocular tissue sites that need it.
[0005] The suprachoroidal space (SCS) of the eye has been studied, and its cannulation
described as a possible route for drug delivery.           See, e.g., Olsen, et al., American J.
Ophihalmologv 142(5): 777-87 (Nov. 2006).; PCT Patent Application Publication No. WO
2007/100745.
[0006] It therefore would be desirable to provide better, safer, more effective techniques for the
direct delivery of therapeutic agents to posterior segment eye tissues, for example, to treat a
posterior ocular disorder. It further would be desirable to provide better, safer, more effective
techniques for the direct delivery of therapeutic agents to the SCS for the treatment of choroidal
maladies, for example, choroidal maladies associated with vascular abnormalities. The present
invention addresses these and other needs.
                               SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0007] In one aspect, the present invention relates to non-surgical ophthalmic therapies in human
patients in need of such treatment, and more particularly to the infusion of a drug formulation
into the suprachoroidal space of the eye for targeted, local drug delivery, for the treatment of
posterior ocular disorders, choroidal maladies and other diseases associated with vascular
abnormalities.
[0008] In one aspect of the invention, a method is provided for treating a posterior ocular
disorder in a human subject in need of treatment.       In one embodiment, the method comprises
non-surgically administering an effective amount of a drug formulation to the suprachoroidal
space (SCS) of the eye of the subject in need of treatment of the posterior ocular disorder or
choroidal malady. In a further embodiment, upon administration, the drug formulation flows
away from the insertion site and is substantially localized to the posterior segment of the eye. In
one embodiment, the posterior ocular disorder is an ocular inflammatory condition such as
                                                  2

uveitis, scleritis, glaucoma, ocular sarcoidosis,     optic neuritis, macular edema, diabetic
retinopathy, macular degeneration, a corneal ulcer, an autoimmune disorder, ophthalmic
manifestations of AIDS, optic nerve degeneration, geographic atrophy, choroidal disease or
retinitis. The condition in one embodiment is acute. In another embodiment, the condition is
chronic.
[0009] In another embodiment, the a method is provided for the treatment of a choroidal malady,
e.g., ocular neovascularization, polypoidal choroidal vasculopathy, choroidal sclerosis, central
cirrus choroidopathy, a multi-focal choroidopathy or a choroidal dystrophy (e~g., central gyrate
choroidal dystrophy, serpiginous choroidal dystrophy, total central choroidal atrophy). In one
embodiment, the method comprises non-surgically administering a drug formulation comprising
an effective amount of an anti-inflammatory drug, a vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)
modulator, a platelet derived growth factor (PDGF) modulator, an angiogenesis inhibitor, an
immunosuppressive agent, a vascular permeability inhibitor, or a combination thereof, to the
SCS of the patient in need of treatment. In a further embodiment, the effective amount of the
drug administered to the SCS provides higher efficacy or a greater therapeutic effect of the drug,
compared to the identical drug dose administered intravitreally, intracamerally, topically,
parenterally or orally. In even a further embodiment, the patient undergoing treatment via SCS
drug therapy was not previously responsive to a different type of therapy for the same condition.
100101 In yet another embodiment, a method for decreasing subretinal exudation and bleeding in
a subject is provided.       In a further embodiment, the method comprises non-surgically
administering a drug formulation comprising an effective amount of an effective amount of an
anti-inflammatory drug, a vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) modulator, a platelet
derived growth factor (PDGF) modulator, an angiogenesis inhibitor, an immunosuppressive
agent, a vascular permeability inhibitor, or a combination thereof, to the SCS of the patient in
need of treatment, wherein administration of the drug formulation reduces subretinal exudation
and bleeding experienced by the patient, as compared to the identical dosage of the drug
administered intravitreally to the patient.
[00111 In one embodiment, a method for treating a posterior ocular disorder or a choroidal
malady in a human patient is provided. In a further embodiment, the method comprises non
                                                3

surgically administering an effective amount of a drug formulation to the suprachoroidal space
(SCS) of the eye of the subject in need of treatment of the posterior ocular disorder or choroidal
malady.      In a further embodiment, the intraocular elimination half life (tm      1 2 ) of the drug
administered to the SCS is greater than the intraocular t1m of the drug, when administered
intravitreally, intracamerally, topically, parenterally or orally. In another embodiment, the mean
intraocular maximum concentration (Cmax) of the drug, when administered to the SCS via the
methods described herein, is greater than the intraocular C          of the drug, when administered
intravitreally, intracamerally, topically, parenterally or orally. In another embodiment, the mean
intraocular area under the curve (AUCo_) of the drug, when administered to the SCS via the
methods described herein, is greater than the intraocular AUG0o of the drug, when administered
intravitreally, intracamerally, topically, parenterally or orally. In yet another embodiment, the
intraocular time to peak concentration (tmax) of the drug, when administered to the SCS via the
methods described herein, is greater than the intraocular     tmax of the drug, when the same drug
dose is administered intravitreally, intracamerally, topically, parenterally or orally. In a further
embodiment, the drug formulation comprises an effective amount of an anti-inflammatory drug
(e.g., a steroid or NSAID), a VEGF modulator (e.g., VEGF antagonist), a platelet derived growth
factor (PDGF) modulator, an angiogenesis inhibitor, an immunosuppressive agent, a vascular
permeability inhibitor, or a combination thereof.
[00121 In one embodiment, the method for treating a posterior ocular disorder or choroidal
malady in a human subject comprises delivering a drug formulation via a hollow microneedle to
the SCS of the eye of the human subject in need of treatment.              In a further embodiment,
delivering the drug formulation comprises inserting a hollow microneedle into the eye of the
human subject at an insertion site, the microneedle having a tip end with an opening; and
infusing over a period of time a drug formulation through the inserted microneedle and into the
SCS space away from the insertion site. The drug formulation administered to the SCS, in one
embodiment, flows away from the insertion site and is substantially localized to the posterior
segment of the eye, thereby increasing the therapeutic efficacy of the dose of the drug compared
to the therapeutic efficacy of the same drug dose administered by another means (e.g.
intravitreally, iniracamerally, topically, parenterally, and/or orally). In another embodiment, the
dose of the drug sufficient to elicit a therapeutic response when administered to the SCS is less
                                                   4

than the dosage of the drug sufficient to elicit a therapeutic response when administered
intravitreally, topically, parenterally or orally. In another embodiment, the drug formulation is
delivered to the SCS by a hollow microneedle inserted into the sclera at the equator of the eye or
between the equator and the limbus of the eye. In a further embodiment, the hollow microneedle
is inserted in the insertion site at a 90 degree angle (perpendicular).
10013] The drug formulation delivered by the methods described herein, in one embodiment,
comprises an effective amount of an anti-inflammatory drug, for example a steroid or a non
steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID).         In another embodiment, the drug delivered to the
SCS via the methods described herein is a steroid, immunosuppressive, antimetabolite., T-cell
inhibitor, alkylating agent, biologic, TNFa antagonist, interleukin antagonist, neuroprotectant,
vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) antagonist, platelet derived growth factor (PDGF)
antagonist, or a combination thereof. In another embodiment, the drug affects inflammation,
neuroprotection, complement          inhibition, drusen formation,    scar formation, reduction in
choriocapillaris or choroidal neocasvularization. In another embodiment, the drug formulation
comprises microparticles and/or nanoparticles of the drug.           In one embodiment, the drug
formulation comprises microparticles having a D5 of I pm or less and/or a D99 of 10 gm or less.
100141 As provided above, one aspect of the invention includes a method for treating a posterior
ocular disorder in a human subject in need thereof comprising non-surgically administering a
drug formulation to the SCS of the eye of the human subject, wherein upon administration, the
drug formulation flows a-way from the insertion site and is substantially localized to the posterior
segment.     In one embodiment of the method, the intraocular pressure of the eye remains
substantially constant during administration of the drug formulation to the SCS.         In another
embodiment, administration of the drug formulation to the SCS of the eye results in a decreased
number of side effects, or a reduced severity of one or more side effects, compared to
administration of the same drug dose intravitreally, intracamerally, topically, orally or
parenterally.
[00151 In one aspect of the invention, the present invention relates to a method for treating a
choroidal malady in a human patient in need of treatment.          In one embodiment, the method
comprises non-surgically administering a drug formulation comprising an effective amount of an
                                                    5

anti-inflammatory drug, a vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) modulator, a platelet
derived growth factor (PDGF) modulator, an angiogenesis inhibitor, an immunosuppressive
agent or a vascular permeability inhibitor, to the suprachoroidal space (SCS) of the eye of the
patient.   In a further embodiment, the human patient, prior to administration of the drug
formulation, was previously treated for the choroidal malady and was not properly responsive to
the treatment.
[0016] In another aspect of the invention, the present invention relates to a method for treating
ocular neovascularization in a human patient in need of treatment.       In one embodiment, the
method comprises non-surgically administering a drug formulation comprising an effective
amount of an anti-inflammatory drug, a vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) modulator
(e.g., a VEGF antagonist), a platelet derived growth factor (PDGF) modulator (e.g., a PDGF
antagonist), an angiogenesis inhibitor, an immunosuppressive agent or a vascular permeability
inhibitor, to the suprachoroidal space (SCS) of the eye of the patient. In a further embodiment,
the ocular neovascularization is a choroidal neovascularization. In one embodiment, the human
patient being treated for the ocular neovascularization, prior to administration of the drug
formulation, was previously treated for the ocular neovascularization and was not properly
responsive to the treatment.
10017] The drug formulation delivered by the methods described herein, in one embodiment,
comprises an effective amount of an anti-inflammatory drug, for example a steroidal compound
or a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID).    In another embodiment, the drug delivered
to the SCS via the methods described herein is a vascular permeability inhibitor, an angiogenesis
inhibitor or a VEGF modulator, e.., a VEGF antagonist.          In one embodiment, the VEGF
antagonist is a VEGF receptor antagonist or a soluble VEGF receptor. In one embodiment, the
drug formulation comprises drug microparticles having a D50 of I gm or less and/or a D99 of 10
pm or less. In a further embodiment, the drug formulation comprises triamcinolone.
[00181 In one embodiment of the invention, a method for treating a choroidal malady or a
posterior ocular disorder in a human subject in need thereof is provided comprising non
surgically administering a drug formulation to the SCS of the eye of the human subject, wherien,
the intraocular pressure of the eye remains substantially constant during administration of the
                                                6

drug formulation to the SCS, In another embodiment, administration of the drug formulation to
the SCS of the eve of the patient in need of treatment of the posterior ocular disorder or choroidal
malady results in a decreased number of side effects, or a reduced severity of one or more side
effects, compared to administration of the same drug dose intravitreally, intracamerally,
topically, orally or parenterally. In one embodiment, the side effect reduced by the methods
described herein is subretinal exudation and/or bleeding.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0019] FIGS. IA, 1B, 1C, and ID are cross-sectional illustrations of the tissue structures of a
human eve. The eye as a whole (A), a close-up of the cornea (1B), and a close-up of the sclera
and associated tissue in an eye without fluid in the suprachoroidal space (1C) or with fluid in the
suprachoroidal space (ID),
[0020] FIG. 2 is a cross-sectional view of a microneedle device comprising a hollow
microneedle disposed in an elongated body according to one embodiment.
[0021] FIG. 3 is a cross-sectional view of the elongated body of the microneedle devices shown
in FIG. 2
[00221 FIG. 4 is an illustration of a microneedle device according to one embodiment.
[00231 FIG. 5 is an illustration of a microneedle device according to one embodiment.
[00241 FIGS. 6A and 6B illustrate an embodiment of a process for using a hollow microneedle
to deliver drug into the suprachoroidal space of an eye, where the process includes inserting the
hollow microneedle into the sclera and infusion of a fluid drug formulation into the
suprachoroidal space.
[00251 FIG. 7A shows a comparison of a hollow microneedle according to one embodiment as
compared to the tip of a conventional 30 gauge hypodermic needle. FIG. 7B shows a schematic
illustration of a custom acrylic mold shaped to fit a whole eye.
[00261 FIGS. 8A and 8B are brightfield microscopic images of saggital cross sections of a pig
eye before and after infusion of sulforhadamine, respectively.

[0027] FIG. 9A, 9B, 9C, and 9D are fluoroscopic images of a cryosection of a pig eye with no
infusion into the suprachoroidal space (9A), a cryosection of a rabbit eye after infusion of 500
nm fluorescent particles in the axial plan and collaged to form a panoramic view (9B), a
cryosection of a pig eye after infusion of 500 nm fluorescent particles in the saggital direction
and collaged to show the spaces both anterior and posterior to the microneedle insertion site
(9C), and a cryosection of a human eve after infusion of 500 nm fluorescent particles in the
saggital direction and collaged to show spaces both anterior and posterior to the microneedle
insertion site (9D).   The insets of FIG. 9B, 9C, and 9D show magnified views of the
microneedle insertion site.
100281 FIGS. 10A and 1OB are microcomputed tomography images showing the circumferential
spread of 1 pm contrast particles infused into the suprachoroidal space of a pig eye in a cross
sectional image (10A) and a three-dimensional reconstruction of the cross-sectional images
(10B).
100291 FIGS. 11A, 11B, 11C, and iD       are graphs showing the effect of infusion pressure and
microneedle length on the success rate of suprachoroidal delivery of 20 nm particles (1A), 100
nm particles (11B), 500 nm particles (11C), and 1000 nm particles (11D) into pig eyes.
100301 FIGS. 12A and 12B are fluoroscopic images of a cryosection of a pig eye after infusion
of 20 nm particles (I12A) and 1000 nm particles (12B) in the saggital direction and collaged to
show spaces both anterior and posterior to the microneedle insertion site. The insets of FIGS.
12A and 12B show magnified views of the microneedle insertion site.
[0031] FIGS. 13A and 13B are graphs showing the effect of the intraocular pressure and
microneedle length on the success rate of suprachoroidal delivery of 1000 nm particles for a
simulated intraocular pressure of 18 mmHg (13A) and 36 mmHg (1 3B).
100321 FIG. 14 is a one-dimensional line of sight scan of rabbit eyes taken after injection of
sodium fluorescein to the suprachoroidal space, with the x-axis representing the position in the
eye from back (0) to front (160) and the y-axis representing the fluorescent intensity at that
position.
                                                8

[0033] FIG. 15 is a graph showing the rate of clearance of sodium fluorescein from the
suprachoroidal space over time.
[00341 FIG. 16 is a graph showing the rate of clearance of 20 nm particles from the
suprachoroidal space over time.
[00351 FIG. 17 is a graph showing the rate of clearance of 500 nn particles from the
suprachoroidal space over time.
[00361 FIG. 18 is a block diagram of a method for administering a drug to the eye according to
one embodiment.
[00371 FIG. 19A, is a graph showing the amount of triamcinolone (TA) retained in the posterior
segment of the eye as a function of time after administration. (circles - SCS injection, diamonds
- intravitreal injection).
[00381 FIG. 19B are graphs showing the increased retention of triamcinolone (TA) in the
choroid and retina when administered to the SCS (bottom) compared with TA administered
intravitreally (top).
[00391 FIG. 19C, top, is a graph showing the ratio of the amount of triamcinolone (TA) in the
lens of the eye to the amount of TA in back of the eye (choroid) as a function of time after
administration. FIG. 19C, bottom, is a graph showing the ratio of the amount of TA in the lens
of the eye to the amount of TA in the back of the eye (retina) as a function of time after
administration (days).
[00401 FIG. 20A is a graph of intraocular pressure (10P, miHg) in rabbit eyes as a function of
time after TA administration. Rabbits were injected with vehicle, 3.2 mg TA or 5.2 mng TA at
study day 0.
[00411 FIG. 20B is a cross sectional image of a rabbit eye following suprachoroidal injection of
3.2 mg triamcinolone (left) or vehicle (right).
[00421 FIG. 20C are graphs showing the TA plasma concentration (ng/niL) after administration
of TA to the SCS of rabbit eye, as a function of time after TA administration.
                                                 9

[00431 FIG. 20D is a graph showing the retention of triameinolone (TA) (pg TA/g tissue) in
various tissues after administration to the SCS, The greatest amount of the drug is retained in the
tissues in the back of the eye (choroid, retina) with lesser amounts retained in anterior portions of
the eye (lens, vitreous fluid).
[00441 FIG. 20E is a graph showing the amount of triameinolone (TA) (ptg) in the sclera and
choroid as a function of time after TA administration.
[00451 FIG. 20F is a graph showing the amount of triamcinolone (TA) (pg) in the retina as a
function of time after TA administration.
[00461 FIG. 21 A,is a graph showing the cumulative McDonald-Shadduck scores of eyes treated
with vehicle (left), 4 mg triamcinolone (TA) administered to the SCS (middle) or 4 mg
triamcinolone administered intravitreally (right), as a function of time after treatment, and time
after LPS toxin administration. The McDonald-Shadduck scores provide a model of posterior
uveitis.
[00471 FIG. 21B are representative fundus photographs showing the effect of triamcinolone
(TA) administered to the SCS or intravitreally in a model of posterior uveitis in NZW rabbits.
[00481 FIG. 21C is a graph showing the overall severity of inflammation in NZW rabbits as
measured from histology at the final time point. The following tissues were analyzed: ciliary
processes, sclera-choroid, vitreous, retina and optic nerve (0-4 scale, max score=20).
[00491 FIG. 21D is a graph showing the intraocular pressure (mmGh) in NZW rabbits in
response to TVT or SCS TA administration.
[00501 FIG. 22A, is a graph showing the mean Hackett/McDonald ocular scores of porcine eyes
challenged with (i) lipopolysaccharide (LPS) toxin followed by vehicle (left), (ii) LPS toxin
followed by 2 mg triamcinolone to the SCS (middle), or (iii) balanced salt solution followed by
vehicle. Treatment with SCS TA at a dose of 2 mg significantly reduces the ocular inflammatory
response in this porcine uveitis model.
                                                  10

[0051] FIG. 22B is a graph showing the mean cumulative Hackett/McDonald ocular scores of
porcine eyes challenged with (i) lipopolysaccharide (LPS) toxin followed by vehicle, (ii) LPS
toxin followed by 2 mg triamcinolone (TA) to the SCS, (iii) LPS toxin followed by 2 mg
triamcinolone intravitreally, or (iv) LPS toxin followed by 0.2 mg triamcinolone to the SCS. A
reduction in inflammnation was observed within 3 days with a dose of TA administered to the
SCS that was 10% of the dose of TA required when administered intravitreally.
[0052] FIG. 23 is a graph showing the mean standardd deviation) cumulative inflammatory
ocular score of animals dosed with or without toxin, and then treated with low or high doses of
TA administered either to the SCS or intravitreally.     The mean inflammatory scores of eyes
treated with SCS TA were lower than the scores of eyes treated with IVT TA one, two and three
days after treatment.
[0053] Mean (+/- SD) cumulative inflammatory ocular scores at uveitis induction (ie., toxin
administration) (Day -1), at time of drug administration (Day 0).       Eyes were administered
suprachoroidal space (SCS) or intravitreal (IVT) injections of 0.2 mg (low dose) or 2.0 mg (high
dose) of triamcinolone acetonide (TA), and ocular scores were calculated 1, 2, and 3 days after
treatment. Group I mean cumulative inflammatory scores were significantly lower than Groups
2 through 6 at Day 0 (Wilcoxon; P<0.028); b. Group 2 mean cumulative inflammatory scores
were significantly higher than Groups I and 3, 4, 5, and 6 at Day 1 (Wilcoxon; P<0.028); c.
Group 5 mean cumulative inflammatory scores were significantly higher than Groups 1, 3, 4, and
6 at Day 1 (Wilcoxon; P<0.029); d. Group 6 mean cumulative inflammatory scores were
significantly higher than Group I at Day I (Wilcoxon; P=0.02); e. Group 2 mean cumulative
inflammatory scores were significantly higher than Groups 1. 3, 4, and 6 at Day 2 (Wilcoxon;
P<0.028); f. Group 5 mean cumulative inflammatory scores were significantly higher than
Groups 1 and 3 at Day 2 (Wilcoxon; P<0.042); g. Group 6 mean cumulative inflammatory scores
were significantly higher than Group 1 at Day 2 (Wilcoxon; P=0.028); h. Group 2 mean
cumulative inflammatory scores were significantly higher than Groups 1,3, 4, 5, and 6 at Day 3
(Wilcoxon; P<0.02); i. Group 5 mean cumulative inflammatory scores were significantly higher
than Groups I and 6 at Day 3 (Wilcoxon; P<0.047);j. Group 6 mean cumulative inflammatory
scores were significantly higher than Group 1 at Day 3 (Wilcoxon; P=0.018). Gi=Group 1;
G2=Group 2; G3=Group 3; G4=Group 4; G5=Group 5: G6=Group 6.
                                                 11

[0054] FIG. 24 is a graph showing the mean intraocular pressure in the eye of animals dosed
with or without a toxin on Day -1 and then treated with low or high doses of TA administered
either to the SCS or intravitreally on Day 0, Mean (+/- SD) intraocular pressure (1OP) in porcine
eyes prior to uveitis induction (Day -1), at the time of drug administration (Day 0) with
suprachoroidal space (SCS) or intravitreal (IVT) injections of 0.2 mg (low dose) or 2.0 mg (high
dose) triamcinolone acetonide (TA).      IOP was measured 1 hr., 3 hr., 6 hr. I day, 2 days and 3
days after treatment. a. IOP in Group 1 eyes was significantly higher than Group 2 eyes at 1 and
3 hours after treatment injections (P:::0.01; 0.04).
100551 FIGS. 25A-B are wide-field ocular fundus images of eyes from animals dosed with or
without a toxin and then treated with low or high doses of TA administered either to the SCS or
intravitreally. Wide-field ocular findus images were imaged at immediately prior to injection
with liopolysaccharide (LPS) on Day -1, immediately prior to injection with vehicle, 0.2 mg (low
dose) or 2.0 mg (high dose) of trimacinolone acetonide on Day 0, and at 3 days after treatment.
Group I eyes, which were injected with balanced salt solution and vehicle, remained normal in
appearance. Substantial cloudiness of the ocular posterior segment developed 24 hours after LP3S
injection in all eyes except in Group I eyes. Treatment with low and high dose mg TA into the
SCS and high dose TA IVT resulted in fundus images near pre-treatment appearance, while
treatment with low dose TA IVT resulted in images only slightly improved over vehicle treated
eyes. Eyes with 2.0 mg TA IVT injections had a solid large depot of TA (Arrow) visible in the
central vitreous.
[00561 FIG. 26 show the ocular histopathology of eyes three days after intravitreal injection of
balances salt solution (BSS) or 100 ng of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and 72 hours after SCS or
IVT administration of vehicle, 0.2 mg TA, or 2.0 mg TA. None of the eves examined had
evidence of substantial tissue, structural, or toxicologic changes on histopathology. Ocular
histopathology of eyes 3 days after intravitreal (IVT) injection of balanced salt solution (BSS) or
 100 ng of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and 72 hours after suprachoroidal (SCS) or IVT injection of
vehicle, 0.2 mg triamcinolone acetonide (low dose TA), or 2.0 mg of triamcinolone acetonide
(high dose TA). Hematoxylin and cosin stain.
                                                  12

A. Anterior segment of eyes injected with BSS LVT and vehicle in SCS (Group 1). Scale bar: 1
mm.
B. Posterior segment of eyes injected with BSS IVT and vehicle in SCS (Group 1). Scale bar:
200 tim.
C. Anterior segment of eyes injected with LPS IVT and vehicle in SCS (Group 2). Scale bar: 1
mm.
D. Posterior segment of eyes injected with LPS IVT and vehicle in SCS (Group 2). Scale bar:
200 gn.
E. Anterior segment of eyes injected with LPS IVT and low dose TA in SCS (Group 3). Scale
bar: I mm.
F. Posterior segment of eyes injected with LPS IVT and low dose TA in SCS (Group 3). Scale
bar: 200 gim.
G. Anterior segment of eyes injected with LPS IVT and high dose TA in SCS (Group 4). Scale
bar: 1 mn.
H. Posterior segment of eyes injected with LPS IVT and high dose TA in SCS (Group 4).
Arrows indicate presence of TA in SCS. Scale bar: 200 gm.
1. Anterior segment of eyes injected with LPS IVT and low dose TA IVT (Group 5). Scale bar: I
mm.
J. Posterior segment of eves injected with LPS IVT and low dose TA IVT (Group 5). Scale bar:
200 pmn.
K. Anterior segment of eyes injected with LPS IVT and high dose TA IVT (Group 6). Scale bar:
1 mm.
L. Posterior segment of eyes injected with LPS  iVT and high dose TA IVT (Group 6). Scale bar:
200 pim.
                                               13

[0057] FIG. 27 shows the mean ocular histopathologic inflammatory scores of the anterior and
posterior segments 4 days after intravitreal (IVT) injection of balanced salt solution (BSS) or 100
ng of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and 3 days after suprachoroidal (SCS) or IVT injection of
vehicle, 0.2 mg triamcinolone acetonide (low dose TA), or 2.0 mg of triamcinolone acetonide
(high dose TA). a. Group I mean histologic inflammatory scores were significantly lower than
Groups 2 through 6 (P<0.04). b. Group 5 mean histologic inflammatory scores were significantly
higher than Groups 4 and 6 (P<0.04). c. Group 4 mean histologic inflammatory scores were
significantly lower than Groups 2, 5, and 6 (P<0.04). d. Group 6 mean histologic inflammatory
score are significantly lower than Group 2 (P=0.018).
100581 FIG. 28 shows the mean aqueous humor (AH) and vitreous humor VH) cell counts 3
days after intravitreal (IVT) injection of balanced salt solution (BSS) or 100 ng of
lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and 72 hours after suprachoroidal (SCS) or IVT injection of vehicle,
0.2 mg triamcinolone acetonide (low dose TA), or 2.0 mg of triamcinolone acetonide (high dose
TA). a. Group 2 mean cell counts were significantly higher than Groups 1, 3, 4, 5, and 6
(P<0.002). b. Group 5 mean cell counts were significantly higher than Group 1 (P<0.002). c.
Group 6 mean cell counts were significantly higher than Group I (P<0.002). d. Group 3 mean
cell counts were significantly higher than Groups 1 and 4 (P<0.048). e. Group 5 mean cell counts
were significantly higher than Groups 1 and 4 (P<0.034).
100591 FIG. 29 is a graph showing triamcinolone (TA) concentration in plasma after either SCS
or IVT administration.
100601 FIG. 30 are optical Coherence tomography (OCT) images of patient number 3 before
injection (left image) and 56 days after injection (right image.) of bevacizumab into the
suprachoroidal space. Decrease in the intraretinal fluid can be observed.
100611 FIG. 31 is a graph showing intraocular pressure (lOP) following SCS administration of 4
mg (40mg/mL) TA or vehicle.
100621 FIG. 32 is a graph showing central corneal thickness on Day I and Day 90 following
SCS administration of 4 mg (40 mg/mL) TA or vehicle.
                                                 14

[0063] FIG. 33 is a graph showing TA concentration in plasma over time following SCS
administration of 4 ng (40 mg/nL) TA.
                       DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0064] Methods, devices and drug formulations are provided herein for treating posterior ocular
disorders and choroidal maladies in human subjects in need thereof. The methods, devices and
formulations provided herein allow for effective posterior segment drug delivery to treat
posterior ocular disorders and choroidal maladies, and generally embody the following
characteristics:   (1) the methods are non-surgical and thus minimally invasive and safe: (2) the
drug formulations are administered in such a way that they are well targeted to the posterior
segment of the eye and/or the suprachoroidal space (SCS) of the eye while simultaneously
limiting drug exposure to the anterior segment or other regions of the eye; (3) the methods and
formulations are capable of delivering drug in a sustained and/or controlled manner; (4) the
methods and devices are user-friendly.       The non-surgical SCS delivery methods, devices for
implementing the methods, and drug formulations for SCS delivery set forth herein achieve these
desired characteristics.
100651 As used herein, "non-surgical" ocular drug delivery methods refer to methods of drug
delivery that do not require general anesthesia and/or retrobulbar anesthesia (also referred to as a
retrobulbar block). Alternatively or additionally, a "non-surgical" ocular drug delivery method is
performed with an instrument having a diameter of 28 gauge or smaller.             Alternatively or
additionally, "non-surgical" ocular drug delivery methods do not require a guidance mechanism
that is typically required for ocular drug delivery via a shunt or cannula.
100661 The non-surgical posterior ocular disorder and choroidal malady treatment methods
described herein are particularly useful for the local delivery of drugs to the posterior region of
the eye, for example the retinochoroidal tissue, macula, retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) and
optic nerve in the posterior segment of the eye.         In another embodiment, the non-surgical
methods and microneedles provided herein can be used to target drug delivery to specific
posterior ocular tissues or regions within the eye or in neighboring tissue. In one embodiment,
the methods described herein deliver drug specifically to the sclera, the choroid, the Brach's
membrane, the retinal pigment epithelium, the subretinal space, the retina, the macula, the optic
                                                  15

disk, the optic nerve, the ciliary body, the trabecular meshwork, the aqueous humor, the vitreous
humor, and/or other ocular tissue or neighboring tissue in the eye of a human subject in need of
treatment. The methods and microneedles provided herein, in one embodiment, can be used to
target drug delivery to specific posterior ocular tissues or regions within the eye or in
neighboring tissue.
[0067] In one embodiment of the methods described herein, non-surgical delivery of a drug, e.g.,
an anti-inflammatory drug (e.g., triamcinolone), a vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)
modulator (e.g., VEGF antagonist), a platelet derived growth factor (PDGF) antagonist to the
suprachoroidal space for treatment of a posterior ocular disorder or choroidal malady, is achieved
by inserting a microneedle into the eye of a patient, for example the sclera, and injecting or
infusing a drug formulation through the inserted microneedle and into the suprachoroidal space
of the eye.    In one embodiment, the effective amount of the drug administered to the SCS
provides higher thereapeutic efficacy of the drug, compared to the therapeutic efficacy of the
drug when the identical dosage is administered intravitreally, topically, intracamerally,
parenterally or orally. In one embodiment, the microneedle drug delivery methods described
herein precisely deliver the drug into the SCS for subsequent local delivery to nearby posterior
ocular tissues in need of treatment. The drug may be released into the ocular tissues from the
infused volume (or, e.g., from microparticles or nanoparticles in the drug formulation) for an
extended period, e.g., several hours or days or weeks or months, after the non-surgical drug
administration has been completed. This beneficially can provide increased bioavailability of the
drug relative, for example, to delivery by topical application of the drug formulation to ocular
tissue surfaces, or increased bioavailability compared to oral, parenteral on intravitreal
administration of the same drug dosage.
[00681 With the methods and microneedle devices described herein, the SCS drug delivery
methods advantageously include precise control of the depth of insertion into the ocular tissue,
so that the microneedle tip can be placed into the eye so that the drug formulation flows into the
suprachoroidal space and in some embodiments to the posterior ocular tissues surrounding the
SCS.    In one embodiment, insertion of the microneedle is in the sclera of the eve.        In one
embodiment, drug flow into the SCS is accomplished without contacting underlying tissues with
the microneedle, such as choroid and retina tissues.
                                                  16

[0069] The methods provided herein, in one embodiment, achieve delivery of drug to the
suprachoroidal space, thereby allowing drug access to posterior ocular tissues not obtainable via
topical, parenteral, intracameral or intravitreal drug delivery.   Because the methods provided
herein deliver drug to the posterior ocular tissue for the treatment of a posterior ocular disorder
or choroidal malady, the suprachoroidal drug dose sufficient to achieve a therapeutic response in
a human subject treated with the methods provided herein is less than the intravitreal, topical,
parenteral or oral drug dose sufficient to elicit the same or substantially the same therapeutic
response. In one embodiment, the SCS delivery methods described herein allow for decreased
drug dose of the posterior ocular disorder treating drug, or the choroidal malady treating drug,
compared to the intravitreal, topical, intracameral parenteral or oral drug dose sufficient to elicit
the same or substantially the same therapeutic response. In a further embodiment, the
suprachoroidal drug dose sufficient to elicit a therapeutic response is 75% or less, or 50% or less,
or 25% or less than the intravitreal, topical parenteral or oral drug dose sufficient to elicit a
therapeutic response. The therapeutic response, in one embodiment, is a reduction in severity of
a symptom/clinical manifestation of the posterior ocular disorder or the choroidal malady for
which the patient is undergoing treatment, or a reduction in number of symptom(s)/clinical
manifestation(s) of the posterior ocular disorder choroidal malady for which the patient is
undergoing treatment.
[0070] The term "suprachoroidal space," is used interchangeably with suprachoroidal, SCS,
suprachoroid and suprachoroidia, and describes the potential space in the region of the eye
disposed between the sclera and choroid. This region primarily is composed of closely packed
layers of long pigmented processes derived from each of the two adjacent tissues; however, a
space can develop in this region as a result of fluid or other material buildup in the
suprachoroidal space and the adjacent tissues. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the
suprachoroidal space frequently is expanded by fluid buildup because of some disease state in
the eve or as a result of some trauma or surgical intervention.         In the present description,
however, the fluid buildup is intentionally created by infusion of a drug formulation into the
suprachoroid to create the suprachoroidal space (which is filled with drug formulation). Not
wishing to be bound by theory, it is believed that the SCS region serves as a pathway for
                                                  17

uveoscleral outflow (i.e., a natural process of the eye moving fluid from one region of the eye to
the other through) and becomes a real space in instances of choroidal detachment from the sclera.
[0071] As used herein, "ocular tissue" and "eye" 10 include both the anterior segment 12 of the
eye (i.e., the portion of the eye in front of the lens) and the posterior segment 14 of the eye (i.e.,
the portion of the eye behind the lens), as illustrated in FIG. IA. The anterior segment 12 is
bounded by the cornea 16 and the lens 18, while the posterior segment 14 is bounded by the
sclera 20 and the lens 18.      The anterior segment 12 is further subdivided into the anterior
chamber 22, between the iris 24 and the cornea 16, and the posterior charnber 26, between the
lens 18 and the iris 24. The exposed portion of the selera 20 on the anterior segment 12 of the
eye is protected by a clear membrane referred to as the conjunctiva (not shown). Underlying the
sclera 20 is the choroid 28 and the retina 27, collectively referred to as retinachoroidal tissue.
The loose connective tissue, or potential space, between the choroid 28 and the selera 20 is
referred to as the suprachoroidal space (SCS) (not shown). FIG. 1B illustrates the cornea 16,
which is composed of the epithelium 30, the Bowman's layer 32, the stroma 34, the Descemet's
membrane 36, and the endothelium 38.           FIG. IC and FIG. ID illustrate the sclera 20 with
surrounding Tenon's Capsule 40 or conjunctiva 41, suprachoroidal space 42, choroid 28, and
retina 27, both without and with a fluid in the suprachoroidal space, respectively.
100721 As provided throughout, in one embodiment, the methods described herein are carried out
with a hollow or solid microneedle, for example, a rigid microneedle. As used herein, the term
"microneedle" refers to a conduit body having a base, a shaft, and a tip end suitable for insertion
into the selera and other ocular tissue and has dimensions suitable for minimally invasive
insertion and drug formulation infusion as described herein. That is, the microneedle has a
length or effective length that does not exceed about 2000 microns and a diameter that does not
exceed about 600 microns.         Both the "length" and "effective length" of the microneedle
encompass the length of the shaft of the microneedle and the bevel height of the microneedle.
[00731 As used herein, the term "hollow" includes a single, straight bore through the center of
the microneedle, as well as multiple bores, bores that follow complex paths through the
microneedles, multiple entry and exit points from the bore(s), and intersecting or networks of
bores.    That is, a hollow microneedle has a structure that includes one or more continuous
                                                   18

pathways from the base of the microneedle to an exit point (opening) in the shaft and/or tip
portion of the microneedle distal to the base.
[0074] FIGS.     2-5 illustrate exemplary embodiments        of microneedle devices.         In one
embodiment, illustrated in FIG. 2-3, the microneedle device 110 includes a hollow microneedle
114 having a hollow bore 140 through which a fluid drug formulation (not shown) can be
delivered to the eye or through which a biological fluid can be withdrawn from the eye, The
microneedle includes a proximal portion 116 and a tip portion 118. The microneedle 114 may
extend from a base comprising, for example, an elongated body 112 having a distal end from
which the proximal portion 116 and tip portion 118 of the microneedle extends. The elongated
body may further comprise a means for securing 111 a base portion of the microneedle extending
beyond the distal end of the base 112, such as a screw or pin. An exemplary embodiment of the
elongated body 112 for securing the microneedle is illustrated in FIG. 3, and comprises a cap
portion 113 and a base portion 115 having a hollow bore 117 therein. The cap portion 113 and
base portion 115 of the elongated body 112 desirably comprise a means for manually adjusting
the length of needle (ie, the proximal portion and tip portion of the microneedle extending from
the base 112) protruding out of the cap portion of the elongated body. Such means may include,
for example, threads 119 allowing the cap portion 113 to be screwed in and out of the base
portion 115 of the elongated body. In an exemplary embodiment illustrated in FIG. 4, the base
portion 115 of the elongated body may be operably connected to an actuator 120 for controlled
infusion of the fluid drug formulation through the microneedle into the suprachoroidal space.
[00751 The microneedle device may further comprise a fluid reservoir for containing the drug
formulation, e.g     as a solution or suspension, and the drug reservoir being in operable
communication with the bore of the microneedle at a location distal to the tip end of the
microneedle.    The fluid reservoir may be integral with the microneedle, integral with the
elongated body, or separate from both the microneedle and elongated body.
[00761 The microneedle can be formed/constructed of different biocompatible materials,
including metals, glasses, semi-conductor materials, ceramics, or polymers.            Examples of
suitable metals include pharmaceutical grade stainless steel, gold, titanium, nickel, iron, gold, tin,
chromium, copper, and alloys thereof. The polymer can be biodegradable or non-biodegradable.
                                                19

Examples      of   suitable   biocompatible,    biodegradable    polymers   include   polylactides,
polyglycolides,      polylactide-co-glycolides     (PLGA),      polyanhydrides,    polyorthoesters,
polyetheresters, polycaprolactones, poIyesteramides, poly(butyric acid), poly(valeric acid),
polyurethanes and copolymers and blends thereof. Representative non-biodegradable polymers
include various thermoplastics or other polymeric structural materials known in the fabrication of
medical devices. Examples include nylons, polyesters, polycarbonates, polyacrylates, polymers
of ethylene-vinyl acetates and other acyl substituted cellulose acetates, non-degradable
polyurethanes, polystyrenes, polyvinyl chloride, polyvinyl fluoride, poly(vinyl imidazole),
chlorosulphonate      polyolefins,   polyethylene    oxide,   blends   and   copolymers    thereof
Biodegradable microneedles can provide an increased level of safety compared to non
biodegradable ones, such that they are essentially harmless even if inadvertently broken off into
the ocular tissue.
100771 The microneedle can be fabricated by a variety of methods known in the art or as
described in the Examples below. In one embodiment, the hollow microncedle is fabricated
using a laser or similar optical energy source. In one example, a microcannula may be cut using
a laser to represent the desired microneedle length. The laser may also be use to shape single or
multiple tip openings. Single or multiple cuts may be performed on a single microncannula to
shape the desired microneedle structure.      In one example, the microcannula may be made of
metal such as stainless steel and cut using a laser with a wavelength in the infrared region of the
light spectrum (e.g., from about 0.7 to about 300 am). Further refinement may be performed
using metal electropolishing techniques familiar to those in the field. In another embodiment,
the microneedle length and optional bevel is formed by a physical grinding process, which for
example may include grinding a metal cannula against a moving abrasive surface.                The
fabrication process may further include precision grinding, micro-bead jet blasting and ultrasonic
cleaning to form the shape of the desired precise tip of the microneedle.
[00781 Further details of possible manufacturing techniques are described, for example, in U.S.
Patent Application Publication No. 2006/0086689, U.S. Patent Application Publication No.
2006/0084942, U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2005/0209565, U.S. Patent Application
Publication No. 2002/0082543, U.S. Patent No. 6,334,856, U.S. Patent No. 6,611,707, U.S.
                                                  20

Patent No. 6,743,211, all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties for all
purposes,
[0079] The methods and devices provided herein allow for suprachoroidal drug delivery to be
accomplished in a minimally invasive, non-surgical manner, superior to other non-surgical (e.g.,
conventional needle) and surgical approaches. For instance, in one embodiment, the methods
provided herein are carried out via the use of one or more microneedles. In one embodiment, the
microneedles are be inserted perpendicular, or at an angle from about 80' to about 100 , into the
eye, e.g., into the sclera, reaching the suprachoroidal space in a short penetration distance. This
is in contrast to long conventional needles or cannula which must approach the suprachoroidal
space at a steep angle, taking a longer penetration path through the sclera and other ocular
tissues, increasing the invasiveness of the method, the size of the needle track and consequently
increasing the risk of infection and/or vascular rupture. With such long needles, the ability to
precisely control insertion depth is diminished relative to the microneedle approach described
herein.
100801 The microneedle, in one embodiment, is part of an array of two or more microneedles
such that the method further includes inserting at least a second microneedle into the sclera
without penetrating across the sclera.       In one embodiment, where an array of two or more
microneedles are inserted into the ocular tissue, the drug formulation of each of the two or more
microneedles may be identical to or different from one another, in drug, formulation,
volume/quantitv of drug formulation., or a combination of these parameters.             In one case,
different types of drug formulations may be injected via the one or more microneedles.          For
example, inserting a second hollow microneedle comprising a second drug formulation into the
ocular tissue will result in delivery of the second drug formulation into the ocular tissue.
100811 In another embodiment, the microneedle devices described herein are adapted to remove
substances, such as a fluid, tissue, or molecule sample, from the eye.
100821 Those skilled in the art will appreciate, however, that other types of microneedles (e.g.,
solid microneedles) and other methods of delivering the drug formulation into the suprachoroidal
space and posterior ocular tissues may be used instead of or in conjunction with the delivery
methods described herein. Non-limiting examples include dissolving, at least in part, a coating
                                                  21

of a drug formulation off of a microneedle; detaching, at least in part, a coating of a drug
formulation (e.g., as a substantially intact sleeve or in fragments) off of a microneedle; breaking
or dissolving a microneedle off of a base to which the rnicroneedle is integrally formed or is
connected; or any combination thereof.
[0083] The microneedle devices described herein also may be adapted to use the one or more
microneedles as a sensor to detect analyses, electrical activity, and optical or other signals. The
sensor may include sensors of pressure, temperature, chemicals, and/or electromagnetic fields
(e.g., light).  Biosensors can be located on or within the microneedle, or inside a device in
communication with the body tissue via the microneedle. The microncedle biosensor can be any
of the four classes of principal transducers:         potentiometric, amperometric, optical, and
physiochemical. In one embodiment, a hollow microneedle is filled with a substance, such as a
gel, that has a sensing functionality associated with it. In an application for sensing based on
binding to a substrate or reaction mediated by an enzyme, the substrate or enzyme can be
immobilized in the needle interior. In another embodiment, a wave guide can be incorporated
into the microneedle device to direct light to a specific location, or for detection, for example,
using means such as a pH dye for color evaluation. Similarly, heat, electricity, light, ultrasound
or other energy forms may be precisely transmitted to directly stimulate, damage, or heal a
specific tissue or for diagnostic purposes.
100841 The microneedle device for non-surgically delivering drug to the suprachoroidal space of
the eye of a human subject, in one embodiment, comprises a hollow microneedle. The device
may include an elongated housing for holding the proximal end of the microneedle. The device
may further include a means for conducting a drug formulation through the microneedle. For
example, the means may be a flexible or rigid conduit in fluid connection with the base or
proximal end of the microneedle.       The means may also include a pump or other devices for
creating a pressure gradient for inducing fluid flow through the device.       The conduit may in
operable connection with a source of the drug formulation.        The source may be any suitable
container. In one embodiment. the source may be in the form of a conventional syringe. The
source may be a disposable unit dose container.
                                                  22

[0085] In one embodiment, the microneedle has an effective length of about 50 gm to about
2000 pm, In another particular embodiment, the microneedle has an effective length of from
about 150 pm to about 1500          or from about 300 am to about 1250 pm, or from about 500 gm
                                 min,
to about 1250 pim, or from about 500 pim to about 1500 gm, or from about 600 gin to about 1000
gin, or from about 700 pm to about 1000 pi. In one embodiment, the effective length of the
microneedle is about 600 gm, or about 700 gm, or about 800 gin or about 1000 gm. In various
embodiments, the proximal portion of the microneedle has a maximum width or cross-sectional
dimension of from about 50 gm to 600 gm, or from about 50 gm to about 400 gm, or from about
50 gm to about 500 gin, or from about 100 gim to about 400 gm, or from about 200 gm to about
600 gm, or from about 100 pm to about 250 im, with an aperture diameter of about 5 gim to
about 400 im.       In a particular embodiment, the proximal portion of the microneedle has a
maximum width or cross-sectional dimension of about 600 gin. Those skilled in the art will
appreciate, however, that in embodiments in which the tip of the microneedle is beveled that the
aperture diameter may be greater than the outer diameter of the proximal portion of the
microneedle. The microneedle may be fabricated to have an aspect ratio (width: length) of about
 1:1.5 to about 1:10. In one embodiment, the aspect ratio of the microneedle is about 1:3 to about
 1:5. In another embodiment, the aspect ratio of the microneedle is about 1:4 to about 1:10.
[00861 The microneedle can have a straight or tapered shaft. In one embodiment, the diameter
of the microneedle is greatest at the base end of the microneedle and tapers to a point at the end
distal the base.    The microneedle can also be fabricated to have a shaft that includes both a
straight (i.e., untapered) portion and a tapered (e.g., beveled) portion. In various embodiments
the microneedle has a bevel angle of about 5 degrees to about 30 degrees, of about 5 degrees to
about 25 degrees, about 5 degrees to about 20 degrees, about 10 degrees to about 20 degrees, and
about 10 degrees to about 30 degrees. The microneedles can be formed with shafts that have a
circular cross-section in the perpendicular, or the cross-section can be non-circular.     The tip
portion of the microneedles can have a variety of configurations. The tip of the microneedle can
be symmetrical or asymmetrical about the longitudinal axis of the shaft.         The tips may be
beveled, tapered, squared-off, or rounded. In various embodiments, the microneedle has a bevel
height from about 50    gm  to 500 gm,   about 100  gm to about 500 pm, about 100 gn  to about 400
gm, about 200 pm to about 400 pm, and about 300 gm to about 500 pm.                  In particular
                                                   23

embodiments, the microneedle may be designed such that the tip portion of the microneedle is
substantially the only portion of the microneedle inserted into the ocular tissue (i.e., the tip
portion is greater than 75% of the total length of the microneedle, greater than 85% of the total
length of the microneedle, or greater than about 95% of the total length of the microneedle). In
other particular embodiments, the microneedle may be designed such that the tip portion is only
a portion of the microneedle that is inserted into the ocular tissue and generally has a length that
is less than about 75% of the total length of the microneedle, less than about 50% of the total
length of the microneedle, or less than about 25% of the total length of the microneedle. For
example, in one embodiment the microneedle has a total effective length between 500 gm and
 1500 nm, wherein the tip portion has a length that is less than about 400 gm, less than about 300
am, or less than about 200 am.
100871 In one embodiment, the height of the bevel is about 100 im to about 500 im. In another
embodiment, the height of the bevel is about 500 pi or less, about 450 pi or less, about 400 pm
or less or about 350 pum or less. In another embodiment, the height of the bevel is from about
200 gim to about 500 um, or from about 100 pm to about 700 pm, or from about 200 im to about
700 jim. In still other embodiments, the height of the bevel is from about 500 im to about 900
pm, or from about 500 gim to about 800 ptm, or from about 500 gm to about 700 am. In this
manner, the arrangement of the bevel can be such that the distal edge is sufficiently sharp such as
to pierce a target tissue and penetrate into the vitreous without (i) substantially causing the target
tissue to elastically deform or (ii) damaging internal structures of the eye, e.g., the lens or retina.
[00881 In one embodiment, the microneedle extends from a base. 'The base may be integral with
or separate from the microneedle.        The base may be rigid or flexible.         The base may be
substantially planar or it may be curved, for example, in the shape of the ocular tissue surface at
the site of injection or, for example, curved away from the ocular surface (e.g., convex) so as to
minimize contact between the base and the ocular tissue.          Desirably, the base is shaped to
provide minimal contact with the surface of the eye at the point of insertion. For example, in one
embodiment, the base may extend only a minimal distance from the microneedle shaft
substantially perpendicular. In another embodiment, the base may be shaped so as to elevate the
ocular tissue towards the microneedle so as to counteract the deflection of the ocular tissue and
facilitate insertion of the microneedle into the ocular tissue (e.g., the base may extend from the
                                                  24

microneedle toward the tip portion of the microneedle so as to "pinch" the ocular tissue). Some
such embodiments may be based, at least in part, on the devices described in U.S. Patent No.
6,743 ,211, incorporated herein by reference.
[0089] In a particular embodiment, the microneedle device has a single microneedle.             In one
embodiment, illustrated in FIG. 5, the microneedle device 130 includes a convex base 132 and a
hollow microneedle 134 which has a bore 140 through which a fluid drug formulation (not
shown) can be delivered to the eye or through which a biological fluid can be withdrawn from
the eye. The hollow microneedle 134 includes a proximal portion 136 and a tip portion 138.
[0090] The microneedle may extend from the base of the microneedle device at any angle
suitable for insertion into the eye. In a particular embodiment, the microneedle extends from the
base at an angle of about 90 degrees to provide approximately perpendicular insertion of the
microneedles into the surface of the eye.        In another particular embodiment, the microneedle
extends from the base at an angle from about 60 to about 110 degrees, or from about 70 degrees
to about 100 degrees, or from about 80 degrees to about 90 degrees, or from about 85 degrees to
about 95 degrees.
[0091] The microneedle device may comprise a means for controllable inserting, and optionally
retracting, the microneedle into the ocular tissue.       In addition, the microneedle device may
include means of controlling the angle at which the at least one microneedle is inserted into the
ocular tissue (e.g., by inserting the at least one microneedle into the surface of the ocular tissue at
an angle of about 90 degrees).
[0092] The depth of microneedle insertion into the ocular tissue can be controlled by the length
of the microneedle, as well as other geometric features of the microneedle.           For example, a
flange or other a sudden change in microneedle width can be used to limit the depth of
microneedle insertion.     The microneedle insertion can also be controlled using a mechanical
micropositioning system involving gears or other mechanical components that move the
microneedle into the ocular tissue a controlled distance and, likewise, can be operated, for
example, in reverse, to retract the microneedle a controlled distance. The depth of insertion can
also be controlled by the velocity at which the microneedle is inserted into the ocular tissue. The
retraction distance can be controlled by elastic recoil of the ocular tissue into which the
                                                    25

microneedle is inserted or bv including an elastic element within the microneedle device that
pulls the microneedle back a specified distance after the force of insertion is released.
[0093] The angle of insertion can be directed by positioning the microneedle at a first angle
relative to the microneedle base and positioning the base at a second angle relative to the ocular
surface. In one embodiment, the first angle can be about 90' and the second angle can be about
0V   The angle of insertion can also be directed by having the microneedle protrude from a device
housing through a channel in that housing that is oriented at a specified angle.
[0094] One skilled in the art may adapt mechanical systems known in the art in combination
with the disclosure set forth herein and in the Examples below to devise suitable structures to
controllably drive the microneedle insertion, which structures may be manually operable,
electromechanically operable, or a combination thereof.
[0095] The transport of drug formulation or biological fluid through a hollow microneedle can
be controlled or monitored using, for example, one or more valves, pumps, sensors, actuators,
and microprocessors.     For instance, in one embodiment the microneedle device may include a
micropump, microvalve, and positioner, with a microprocessor programmed to control a pump or
valve to control the rate of delivery of a drug formulation through the microneedle and into the
ocular tissue. The flow through a microneedle may be driven by difftusion, capillary action, a
mechanical pump, electroosmosis, electrophoresis, convection or other driving forces. Devices
and microneedle designs can be tailored using known pumps and other devices to utilize these
drivers.   In one embodiment, the microneedle device may further include an iontophoretic
apparatus, similar to that described in U.S. Patent 6,319,240 to Beck, for enhancing the delivery
of the drug formulation to the ocular tissue. In another embodiment the microneedle devices can
further include a flowmeter or other means to monitor flow through the microneedles and to
coordinate use of the pumps and valves.
100961 The flow of drug formulation or biological fluid can be regulated using various valves or
gates known in the art. The valve may be one which can be selectively and repeatedly opened
and closed, or it may be a single-use type, such as a fracturable barrier. Other valves or gates
used in the microneedle devices can be activated thermally., electrochemically, mechanically, or
magnetically to selectively initiate, modulate, or stop the flow of material through the
                                                 26

microneedles. In one embodiment, the flow is controlled with a rate-limiting membrane acting
as the valve.
[0097] In another embodiment, the device includes an array of two or more microneedles. For
example, the device may include an array of from 2 to 1000 (e~g., from 2 to 100) microneedles.
In one embodiment, a device includes between 1 and 10 microneedles. An array of microneedles
may include a mixture of different microneedles.           For instance, an array may include
microneedles having various lengths, base portion diameters, tip portion shapes, spacings
between microneedles, drug coatings, etc.      In embodiments wherein the microneedle device
comprises an array of two or more microneedles, the angle at which a single microneedle extends
from the base may be independent from the angle at which another microneedle in the array
extends from the base.
100981 The SCS drug delivery methods provided herein allow for the delivery of drug
formulation over a larger tissue area and to more difficult to target tissue in a single
administration as compared to previously known needle devices. Not wishing to be bound by
theory, it is believed that upon entering the SCS the drug formulation flows circumferentially
from the insertion site toward the retinochoroidal tissue, macula, and optic nerve in the posterior
segment of the eye as well as anteriorly toward the uvea and ciliary body. In addition, a portion
of the infused drug formulation may remain in the SCS as a depot, or remain in tissue overlying
the SCS, for example the sclera, near the microneedle insertion site, serving as additional depot
of the drug formulation that subsequently can diffuse into the SCS and into other adjacent
posterior tissues.
100991 The microneedle devices and non-surgical methods described herein may be used to
deliver drug formulations to the eye of a human subject, particularly for the treatment, diagnosis,
or prevention of a posterior ocular disorder or a choroidal malady. In one embodiment, the drug
formulation comprises an effective amount of an anti-inflammatory drug, an immunosuppressive
agent, a VEGF modulator (e.g., a VEGF antagonist), an angiogenesis inhibitor (e.g.,       a PDGF
antagonist) or a vascular permeability inhibitor.      In a further embodiment, the formulation
comprises an anti-inflammatory drug selected from a steroid compound and a non-steroidal anti
                                                27

inflanunatory drug (NSAID).        In even a further embodiment,       the drug formulation is a
triameinolone formulation, e.g., a triameinolone acetonide formulation.
[00100]         The present invention, in one aspect, relates in to the treatment of a choroidal
malady in a human patient in need thereof. The method, in one embodiment, comprises non
surgically delivering a drug formulation comprising an effective amount of a choroidal malady
treating drug to the suprachoroidal space of one or both eyes of the patient in need of treatment.
It should be understood that a patient having one eye will undergo treatment in only one eye.
[00101]         In one aspect, the methods and microneedles described herein relate to the non
surgical administration of a drug formulation for the treatment of a choroidal mnalady or posterior
ocular disorder, wherein the majority of the drug formulation is retained in the SCS in one or
both eyes of a patient in need of treatment of either the choroidal malady or posterior ocular
disorder, for a period of time after the non-surgical treatment method is completed.       Without
wishing to be bound by theory, drug formulation retention in the SCS contributes to the sustained
release profile of the drug formulations described herein.
[00102]         The human subject treated with the methods provided herein may be an adult or a
child. A wide range of posterior ocular disorders and disorders and choroidal maladies are
treatable with the methods, devices and drug formulations described herein.
[00103]         Examples of posterior ocular disorders amenable for treatment by the methods,
devices and drug formulations described herein include, but are not limited to, uveitis, glaucoma,
mnacular edema, diabetic macular edema, retinopathy, age-related macular degeneration (for
example, wet AMD or dry AMD), scleritis, optic nerve degeneration, geographic atrophy,
choroidal disease, ocular sarcoidosis, optic neuritis, choroidal neovascularization, ocular cancer,
genetic disease(s), autoinuune diseases affecting the posterior segment of the eye, retinitis (e.g.,
cytomegalovirus retinitis) and corneal ulcers.       The posterior ocular disorders amenable for
treatment by the methods, devices, and drug formulations described herein may be acute or
chronic. For example, the ocular disease may be acute or chronic uveitis. Uveitis can be caused
by infection with viruses, fungi, or parasites; the presence of noninfectious foreign substances in
the eye; autoimmune diseases; or surgical or traumatic injury. Disorders caused by pathogenic
organisms that can lead to uveitis or other types of ocular inflammation include, but are not
                                                  28

limited to, toxopl asnosis, toxocariasis, histopl asnosis, herpes simplex or herpes zoster infection,
tuberculosis,   syphilis,  sarcoidosis,   Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada       syndrome,    Behcet's   disease,
idiopathic retinal vasculitis, Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada         Syndrome, acute posterior multifocal
placoid pigment epitheliopathy (APMPPE), presumed ocular histoplasmosis syndrome (POHS),
birdshot chroidopathy, Multiple Sclerosis, sympathetic opthalmia, punctate inner choroidopathy,
pars planitis, or iridocyclitis.  Acute uveitis occurs suddenly and may last for up to about six
weeks.    Chronic uveitis is a form of uveitis in which the onset of signs and/or symptoms is
gradual, and symptoms last longer than about six weeks.
1001041         Signs of uveitis include ciliary injection, aqueous flare, the accumulation of cells
visible on ophthalmic examination, such as aqueous cells, retrolental cells, and vitreouscells,
keratic precipitates, and hypema.      Symptoms of uveitis include pain (such as ciliary spasm),
redness, photophobia, increased lacrimation, and decreased vision. Posterior uveitis affects the
posterior or choroid part of the eye. Inflammation of the choroid part of the eye is also often
referred to as choroiditis.    Posterior uveitis is may also be associated with inflammation that
occurs in the retina (retinitis) or in the blood vessels in the posterior segment of the eye
(vasculitis).   In one embodiment, the methods provided herein comprise non-surgically
administering to a uveitis patient in need thereof, an effective amount of a uveitis treating drug to
the SCS of the eye of the patient. In a further embodiment, the patient experiences a reduction in
the severity of the symptoms, after administration of a uveitis treating drug to the SCS.
[001051         In one embodiment, the drug formulation delivered to the SCS results in the
patient experiencing a reduction in inflammation, neuroprotection, complement inhibition,
drusen formation, scar formation, and/or a reduction in choriocapillaris                or choroidal
neocasvularization.
1001061         The non-surgical methods described herein are particularly useful for the local
delivery of drugs to the posterior region of the eye, for example the retinochoroidal tissue,
macila, and optic nerve in the posterior segment of the eye.          In one embodiment, the non
surgical treatment methods and devices described herein may be used in gene-based therapy
applications.   For example, the method, in one embodiment, comprises administering a drug
                                                   29

formulation into the suprachoroidal space to deliver select DNA, RNA, or oligonucleotides to
targeted ocular tissues.
[00107]         As provided throughout, the methods described herein are also amenable for the
treatment of a choroidal malady in a patient in need of such treatment. In one embodiment, the
patient in need of choroidal malady treatment has been unresponsive to a previous non-SCS
method for treating the choroidal malady.          Examples of choroidal maladies amenable for
treatment by the methods, devices and drug formulations described herein include, but are not
limited to, choroidal neovascularization, polypoidal choroidal vasculopathy, central sirrus
choroidopathy, a multi-focal choroidopathy or a choroidal dystrophy (e.g., central gyrate
choroidal dystrophy, serpiginous choroidal dystrophy or total central choroidal atrophy).
Choroidal maladies are described in further detail below.
[00108]         In one embodiment, the choroidal malady treating drug is an angiogenesis
inhibitor, a vascular permeability inhibitor or an anti-inflammatory drug.          The angiogenesis
inhibitor, in one embodiment, is a vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) modulator or a
platelet derived growth factor (PDGF) modulator. The choroidal malady treatment method, in
one embodiment, comprises administering the drug formulation to the SCS of one or both eyes
of the patient in need of treatment via a microneedle. In a further embodiment, the microneedle
is a hollow microneedle having a tip and an opening, and the drug formulation is infused into the
SCS of one or both eyes through the tip of the hollow microneedle.
1001091         The method of treating a posterior ocular disorder or choroidal malady in a human
subject in need thereof comprises, in one embodiment, non-surgically administering a drug
formulation to the suprachoroidal space of the eye of the human subject, wherein upon
administration, the drug formulation flows away from the insertion site and is substantially
localized to the posterior segment of the eye.        In one embodiment, the non-surgical methods
provided herein allow for longer retention of the drug in the eye, as compared to intravitreal,
topical, parenteral, intracameral or oral administration of the same drug dose.
1001101         In one embodiment, the suprachoroidal drug dose sufficient to achieve a
therapeutic response in a human subject treated with the non-surgical SCS drug delivery method
is less than the intravitreal, parenteral, intracameral, topical, or oral drug dose sufficient to elicit
                                                   30

the identical or substantially identical therapeutic response.      In a further embodiment, the
suprachoroidal drug dose is at least 10 percent less than the oral, pareneral or intravitreal dose
sufficient to achieve the identical or substantially identical therapeutic response. In a further
embodiment, the suprachoroidal dose is about 10 percent to about 25 percent less, or about 10
percent to about 50 percent less than the oral, parenteral, intracameral, topical, or intravitreal
dose sufficient to achieve the identical or substantially identical therapeutic response.
Accordingly, in one embodiment, the method of treating a posterior ocular disorder or choroidal
malady described herein achieves a greater therapeutic efficacy than other routes of
administration.     In one embodiment, the non-surgical method provided herein comprises
inserting a hollow microneedle into the selera of the eye of the human subject and infusing a
drug formulation through the hollow microneedle and into the suprachoroidal space of the eye.
As described in more detail below, the drug formulation, in one embodiment, is a solution or
suspension of the drug.
1001111          In one embodiment, where the non-surgical method for treating a posterior ocular
disorder or choroidal malady in a human subject comprises drug delivery to the SCS of one or
both eyes of the patient via a microneedle (hollow or solid), the microneedle insertion site is
between the equator and the limbus of the respective eye.
100112]          In another embodiment, the insertion site is between about 2 mm and about 10
mm posterior to the limbus of the eye. In one embodiment, the microneedle insertion site is at
the pars plana. However, in other embodiments the insertion site is outside the pars plana. In
one embodiment., the insertion site of the microneedle is at about the equator of the eye.
100113]          In another embodiment, the insertion site is from 2 to 10 mm anterior to the
limbus of the eye, for example, about 5 mm anterior to the limbus.
100114]          In another embodiment, the drug formulation is introduced into the SCS at the site
of injection (i.e., at the tip of the microneedle) and then flows through the SCS away from the
site of infection while the injection occurs. In another embodiment, the site of injection (i.e., at
the tip of the microneedle) is anterior to the equator of the eye and at least a portion of the drug
formulation flows posterior to the equator of the eye during the injection (i.e., while drug
formulation continues to flow out of the microneedle).         In another embodiment, the site of
                                                  31

injection (i.e., at the tip of the microneedle) is anterior to the equator of the eye and at least a
portion of the drug formulation flows near the macular during the injection (i.e., while drug
formulation continues to flow out of the microneedle).
1001151          In one embodiment, the depth of insertion of the microneedle into the ocular
tissue is precisely controlled. Various methods can be used to control the insertion depth of the
 nicroneedles described herein. In a particular embodiment, the insertion depth is limited by the
selected length or effective length of the microneedle.        The "effective length" is that portion
available for tissue insertion, i.e., the length that extends from the base and would be inserted if
there were zero tissue deformation. The "effective length" neglects any proximal portion of the
microneedle that extends into or through the base and thus cannot be inserted in the tissue, and
includes both the microneedle shaft length and bevel length. That is, the microneedle may have
an effective length approximately equal to the desired penetration depth. In one embodiment, the
microneedle is short enough that the tip of the microneedle may be inserted substantially to the
base of the sclera (i.e., near the interface of the sclera and choroid) without completely
penetrating across the sclera. In another embodiment, the tip of the microneedle is inserted
through the sclera into the suprachoroidal space without penetrating through the choroid.
1001161          In another embodiment, the microneedle is designed to have a length longer than
the desired penetration depth, but the microneedle is controllably inserted only part way into the
tissue.   Partial insertion may be controlled by the mechanical properties of the tissue, which
bends and dimples during the microneedle insertion process. In this way, as a microneedle is
inserted into the tissue, its movement partially elastically deforms the tissue and partially
penetrates into the tissue. By controlling the degree to which the tissue deforms, the depth of
microneedle insertion into the tissue can be controlled.
1001171          In one embodiment, the microneedle is inserted into the eye of the human patient
using a rotationai/drilling technique and/or a vibrating action. In this way, the microneedle can
be inserted to a desired depth by, for example, drilling the microneedles a desired number of
rotations, which corresponds to a desired depth into the tissue. See, e.g., U.S. Patent Application
Publication No. 2005/0137525, which is incorporated herein by reference, for a description of
                                                   32

drilling microneedles. The rotationall/drilling technique and/or a vibrating action may be applied
during the insertion step, retraction step, or both.
[00118]          In one embodiment, the drug formulation is infused into the suprachoroidal space
through a hollow microneedle by driving the drug formulation from a source reservoir into the
ocular tissue using a pressure gradient (e.g., pumping, syringe). In other embodiments, the drug
formulation is driven from a source reservoir into the ocular tissue using an electric field (e.g.,
iontophoresis) or another externally applied energy (e.g., ultrasound/acoustic energy),
[001)19]         In   one embodiment, the         amount of drug formulation        infused into the
suprachoroidal space from the non-surgical drug delivery methods described herein is from about
 10 pL to about 200 pL, e.g., from about 50        L1to about 150 .L. In another embodiment, from
about 10 pL to about 500 pL, eg., from about 50 pL to about 250 p1L is non-surgically
administered to the suprachoroidal space.         For example, in one embodiment, the non-surgical
method comprises inserting a hollow microneedle into the sclera at an insertion site, the
microneedle having a tip end with an opening, and infusing the drug formulation through a
hollow microneedle and into the suprachoroidal space. As provided above, from about 10 pL to
about 200 uL, or from about 50 iL to about 150 pL or from about 10 pL to about 500 pL or
from about 50 pL to about 250 uL can be delivered via one or more hollow microneedles
described herein.
1001201          In one embodiment, the driving force or pressure infusing the drug formulation
through the hollow microneedle causes the infused drug formulation to flow within the
suprachoroidal space and reach the back of the eye during the administration (i.e., during the
infusion) process. This may occur in less than one or two minutes, such as from about I second
to about 100 seconds, e.g., from about 10 seconds to about 30 seconds. In one aspect, the drug
formulation flows away from the insertion site during and after infusing the drug into the SCS.
In a further embodiment, the drug flows circumferentially within the suprachoroidal space during
the infusion process to a site that is at least 2.5 mm away from the insertion site, or to a site that
is at least 5 mm away from the insertion site, or to a site that is at least 7.5 mm away from the
insertion site, or to a site that is at least 10 mm away from the insertion site. In one embodiment,
the drug formulation flows circumferentially within the suprachoroidal space from the insertion
                                                    33

site toward the back (posterior segment) of the eye (i.e., the retinochoroidal tissue, macula, and
optic nerve in the posterior segment of the eye).
[00121]         The amount of drug delivered within the SCS also may be controlled, in part, by
the type of microneedle used and how it is used. In one embodiment, a hollow microneedle is
inserted into the ocular tissue and progressively retracted from the ocular tissue after insertion to
deliver a fluid drug, where after achieving a certain dosage, the delivery could be stopped by
deactivating the fluid driving force, such as pressure (e.g., from a mechanical device such as a
syringe) or an electric field, to avoid leakage/uncontrolled deliver of drug.        Desirably, the
amount of drug being delivered is controlled by driving the fluid drug formulation at a suitable
infusion pressure. In one embodiment, the infusion pressure may be at least 150 kPa, at least 250
kPa, or at least 300 kPa. In another embodiment, the infusion pressure is about 150 kPa to about
300 kPa. Suitable infusion pressures may vary with the particular patient or species.
[00122]          It should be noted that the desired infusion pressure to deliver a suitable amount
of drug formulation might be influenced by the depth of insertion of the microneedle and the
composition of the drug formulation. For example, a greater infusion pressure may be required
in embodiments wherein the drug formulation for delivery into the eye is in the form of or
includes nanoparticles or microparticles encapsulating the active agent or microbubbles.
Nanoparticle or microparticle encapsulation techniques are well known in the art.             In one
embodiment, the drug formulation is comprised of drug particles in suspension with a D99 of 10
pm or less.      In one embodiment, the drug formulation is comprised of drug particles in
suspension with a D) of 7 um or less.           In another embodiment, the drug formulation is
comprised of drug particles in suspension with aD)   9 of 3  m or less. In another embodiment, the
drug formulation is comprised of drug particles in suspension with a D5 o of 5 gm or less. In one
embodiment, the drug formulation is comprised of drug particles in suspension with a Dgo I pm
or less.
[001231         In one embodiment, the non-surgical method of administering a drug to the SCS
further includes partially retracting the hollow microneedle after insertion of the microneedle
into the eye, and before and/or during the infusion of the drug formulation into the
suprachoroidal space.      In a particular embodiment, the partial retraction of the microneedle
                                                  34

occurs prior to the step of infusing the drug formulation into the ocular tissue.               This
insertion/retraction step may form a pocket and beneficially permits the drug formulation to flow
out of the inicroneedle unimpeded or less impeded by ocular tissue at the opening at the tip
portion of the microneedle. This pocket may be filled with drug formulation, but also serves as a
conduit through with drug formulation can flow from the microneedle, through the pocket and
into the suprachoroidal space. FIG. 6A shows a hollow microneedle 130 inserted into the sclera
20, with drug formulation 131 temporarily positioned in the hollow bore of the microneedle.
(The fluid communication to a reservoir of the drug formulation is not shown.) FIG. 6B shows
the microneedle 130 following partial retraction and infusion of the drug formulation 131 into
the suprachoroidal space. Arrows show the circumferential flow of the drug formulation through
the suprachoroidal space.
1001241         In one embodiment, the microneedle infuses a drug formulation through the sclera
into the suprachoroidal space for controlled (i.e., sustained, extended, or modulated over time)
release of a drug to one or more ocular or neighboring tissues. This "controlled release" or
"sustained release" or "extended release" or "modulated release" is generally more prolonged
than that obtainable by topical application or intravitreal injection of the drug formulation to the
ocular tissue. In one embodiment., there is a controlled, extended, sustained or modulated release
of the drug formulation after at least one microneedle is withdrawn from the ocular tissue. This
delivery method can be particularly advantageous with ocular tissues, where it is desirable for
the insertion and withdrawal process to occur over as short a period as possible to minimize
patient discomfort-in contrast to transdermal microneedle patch applications, where patches
may more likely be worn (with microneedles inserted) over an extended period without patient
discomfort.
[001251         In another aspect, the method of treating a posterior ocular disorder or choroidal
malady by non-surgically administering a drug to the suprachoroidal space of the eye of a human
subject includes monitoring the insertion of the microneedle and/or infusion of the fluid drug
formulation to ensure precise delivery of the fluid drug formulation to the SCS (see, e.g, FIG.
18). Such monitoring may be achieved using imaged-guided feedback methods during one or
more of these steps, non-limiting examples of which include conventional microscopy, MRI, x
ray, confocal microscopy, ocular coherence tomography              (e.g., anterior segment optical

coherence tomography, Heidelberg retina tomography, spectral domain optical coherence
tomography),      fluorescein  angiography,       indocyanine  green  angiography, high resolution
stereoscopic fundus photography, autofluorescence imaging, ultra-wide field imaging, and
various ultrasound techniques. Thus, the method may further comprise determining whether an
initial infusion of the fluid drug formulation has flowed into the suprachoroidal space of the eye
and away from the insertion site. If it is determined that an initial infusion has been successful, a
desired volume of the fluid drug formulation can be infused and the infusion discontinued by
removing the fluid driving force, such as pressure, and retracting the microncedle from the eye.
If, however, it is determined that the initial infusion of the fluid drug formulation has been
unsuccessful (i.e., substantially none of the drug formulation has flowed into the suprachoroidal
space of the eye and away from the insertion site), then the microneedle may be repositioned and
the process repeated until a successful delivery is achieved.
1001261          Targeting a drug formulation to the SCS and the posterior ocular tissues allows
for high concentrations of the drug to be delivered to the choroid/sclera and the retina, with little
to no drug being delivered to the aqueous humor of the anterior chamber. Additionally, the
methods provided herein allow for greater drug retention in the eye compared to other drug
delivery methods, for example, a greater amount of drug is retained in the eye when delivered via
the methods provided herein as compared to the same dose delivered via intracameral,
intravitreal, topical, parenteral or oral drug delivery methods. Accordingly, in one embodiment,
the intraocular elimination half life   (t4 2 ) of the drug when delivered via the methods described
herein is greater than the intraocular t1 , 2 of the drug when the same drug dose is administered
intravitreally, intracamerally, topically, parenterally or orally.      In another embodiment, the
intraocular Cmnax of the drug, when delivered via the methods described herein, is greater than the
intraocular Cmax of the drug when the same drug dose is administered intravitreally,
intracamerally, topically, parenterally or orally. In another embodiment, the mean intraocular
area under the curve (AUCot) of the drug, when administered to the SCS via the methods
described herein, is greater than the intraocular AUCo         0 t of the drug, when administered
intravitreally, intracamerally, topically, parenterally or orally. In yet another embodiment, the
intraocular time to peak concentration (tmax) of the drug, when administered to the SCS via the
methods described herein, is greater than the intraocular tmax of the drug, when the same drug
                                                      36

dose is administered intravitreally, intracamerally, topically, parenterally or orally. In a further
embodiment, the drug is an angiogenesis inhibitor, an anti-inflammatory drug (e.g., a steroid or
NSAID), a VEGF modulator (e.g., a VEGF antagonist), a PDGF modulator (e.g., a PDGF
antagonist), an immunosuppressive agent, or a vascular permeability inhibitor. In even a further
embodiment, the drug is triamcinolone, infliximab, mycophenolate, sorafenib, axitinib or
nepafenac.
[00127]         In one embodiment, the intraocular ti2 of the drug when administered via the non
surgical SCS drug delivery methods provided herein, is longer than the intraocular t1 2 of the drug
when the identical dose is administered topically, intracamerally, intravitreally, orally or
parenterally. In a further embodiment, the intraocular t/2 of the drug when administered via the
non-surgical SCS drug delivery methods provided herein, is from about 1.1 times to about 10
times longer, or from about 1.25 times to about 10 times longer, or from about 1.5 times to about
 10 times longer, or about 2 times to about 5 times longer, than the intraocular t1/2 of the drug
when the identical dosage is administered topically, intracamerally, intravitreally, orally or
parenterally.    In a further embodiment, the drug is an angiogenesis inhibitor, an anti
inflammatory drug (e.g., a steroid or NSAID), a VEGF modulator (e.g., a VEGF antagonist), a
PDGF modulator (e.g., a PDGF antagonist), an immunosuppressive agent, or a vascular
permeability inhibitor.
1001281         In another embodiment, the intraocular Cmax of the drug, when delivered via the
methods described herein, is greater than the intraocular Cm,         of the drug when the same drug
dose is administered intravitreally, intracamerally, topically, parenterally or orally. In a further
embodiment, the intraocular Cmnax of the drug when administered via the non-surgical SCS drug
delivery methods provided herein, is at least 1.1 times greater, or at least 1.25 times greater, or at
least 1.5 times greater, or at least 2 times greater, or at least 5 times greater, than the intraocular
Cmax of the drug when the identical dose is administered topically, intracamerally, intravitreally,
orally or parenterally. In one embodiment, the intraocular Cmax of the drug when administered
via the non-surgical SCS drug delivery methods provided herein, is about 1 to about 2 times
greater, or about 1.25 to about 2 times greater, or about 1 to about 5 times greater, or about 1 to
about 10 times greater, or about 2 to about 5 times greater, or about 2 to about 10 times greater,
than the intraocular Cmax of the drug when the identical dose is administered topically,
                                                  37

intracamerally, intravitreally, orally or parenterally.   In a further embodiment, the drug is an
angiogenesis inhibitor, an anti-inflanimatory drug (e.g., a steroid or NSAID), a VEGF modulator
(e.g., a VEGF antagonist), a PDGF modulator (e.g., a PDGF antagonist), an immunosuppressive
agent or a vascular permeability inhibitor.       In one embodiment, the drug is triamcinolone,
infliximab, mycophenolate, methotrexate, sorafenib, axitinib or nepafenac.
[00129]          In another embodiment, the mean intraocular area under the curve (AUCo4 ) of the
drug, when administered to the SCS via the methods described herein, is greater than the
intraocular AUG0 .1 of the drug, when administered intravitreally, intracamerally, topically,
parenterally or orally.     In a further embodiment, the intraocular AUCo         of the drug when
administered via the non-surgical SCS drug delivery methods provided herein, is at least 1.1
times greater, or at least 1.25 times greater, or at least 1.5 times greater, or at least 2 times
greater, or at least 5 times greater, than the intraocular AUCo of the drug when the identical
dose is administered topically, intracamerally, intravitreally, orally or parenterally.      In one
embodiment, the intraocular AUC 1 of the drug when administered via the non-surgical SCS
drug delivery methods provided herein, is about 1 to about 2 times greater, or about 1.25 to about
2 times greater, or about 1 to about 5 times greater, or about 1 to about 10 times greater, or about
 2 to about 5 times greater, or about 2 to about 10 times greater, than the intraocular AUCo> of the
drug when the identical dose is administered topically, intracamerally, intravitreally, orally or
parenterally.     In a further embodiment, the drug is an angiogenesis inhibitor, an anti
inflammatory drug (e.g., a steroid or NSAID), a VEGF modulator (e.g., a VEGF antagonist), a
PDGF modulator (e.g.,        a PDGF antagonist), an immunosuppressive agent or a vascular
permeability inhibitor. In even a further embodiment, the drug is triamcinolone, infliximab,
mycophenolate, methotrexate, sorafenib, axitinib or nepafenac.
[001301          In one embodiment, the drug formulation comprising the effective amount of the
drug (e.g., an angiogenesis inhibitor, an anti-inflamnatory drug (e.g., a steroid or NSAID), a
VEGF modulator (e.g., a VEGF antagonist), a PDGF modulator (e.g., a PDGF antagonist), an
immunosuppressive agent or a vascular permeability inhibitor), once delivered to the SCS, is
substantially retained in the SCS over a period of time. For example, in one embodiment, about
80% of the drug formulation is retained in the SCS for about 30 minutes, or about I hour, or
about 4 hours or about 24 hours or about 48 hours or about 72 hours. In this regard, a depot of
                                                  38

drug is formed in the SCS and/or surrounding tissue, to allow for sustained release of the drug
over a period of time.
[00131]          In one embodiment, the suprachoroidal space, once loaded with drug (e.g., drug
microparticles or nanoparticles), provides a sustained release of drug to the retina or other
posterior ocular tissues over a period of time. The targeting of the drug to the posterior ocular
tissues via the methods described herein allows for a greater therapeutic efficacy in the treatment
of one or more posterior ocular disorders or choroidal maladies (e.g., PCV), as compared to other
administration methods of the same drug dose, such as intravitreal, intracameral, oral, parenteral
and topical delivery of the same drug dose. In a further embodiment, the therapeutic effect of the
drug delivered to the SCS is achieved with a lower dose than the intravitreal, intracameral,
topical, parenteral or oral dose sufficient to achieve the same therapeutic effect in the human
subject. Additionally, without wishing to be bound by theory, the lower doses achievable with
the methods provided herein result in reduced number of side effects of the drug, and/or reduced
severity of one or more side effect(s), compared to higher doses of the drug, or the same drug
dose delivered to the human patient via non-suprachoroidal routes of administration (e.g.,
intravitreal, intracameral, topical, parenteral, oral). For example, the methods provided herein
provide a reduced number of side effects, or reduced severity of one or more side effects, or
clinical manifestations, as compared to oral, topical, intracameral, parenteral or intravitreal
administration of the same drug at the same dose. In one embodiment, the side effect or clinical
manifestation that is lessened in the treated patient is subretinal exudation and/or subretinal
bleeding.
[001321          In one embodiment, the non-surgical suprachoroidal drug delivery methods
provided herein result in an increased therapeutic efficacy and/or improved therapeutic response,
as compared to oral, parenteral and/or intravitreal drug delivery methods of the identical or
similar drug dose. In one embodiment, the SCS drug dose sufficient to provide a therapeutic
response is about 90%, or about 75%, or about one-half (e.g., about one half or less) the
intravitreal, intracameral, topical, oral or parenteral drug dose sufficient to provide the same or
substantially the same therapeutic response. In another embodiment, the SCS dose sufficient to
provide a therapeutic response is about one-fourth the intravitreal, intracameral, topical, oral or
parenteral drug dose sufficient to provide the sarme or substantially the same therapeutic
                                                  39

response. In yet another embodiment, the SCS dose sufficient to provide a therapeutic response
is one-tenth the intravitreal, intracameral, topical, oral or parenteral drug dose sufficient to
provide the same or substantially the same therapeutic response.           In one embodiment, the
therapeutic response is a decrease in inflammation, as measured by methods known to those of
skill in the art. In another embodiment, the therapeutic response is a decrease in number of
ocular lesions, or decrease in ocular lesion size.
[00133]          In one embodiment, the total amount of the effective amount of the drug in the
drug formulation is about 0.05 mug to about 5 mg. In one embodiment, the total amount of the
drug in the drug formulation is about 0.2 mug to about 4 mg. In another embodiment, the total
amount of the drug in the drug formulation is about 1 mg to about 4 mg. Drug doses can be
varied according to methods known to those of skill in the art and will vary, for example, based
on patient age and clinical manifestation of the posterior ocular disorder or choroidal malady.
[00134]         The therapeutic efficacy of the drug formulations delivered by the methods
described herein and therapeutic response of the human subject can be assayed by standard
means in the art, as known to those of skill in the art. In general, the therapeutic efficacy of any
particular drug can be assessed by measuring the response of the human subject after
administration of the drug; a drug with a high therapeutic efficacy will show a greater
amelioration and/or discontinuation of symptoms than a drug with a lower therapeutic efficacy.
In non-limiting examples, the efficacy of the drug formulations (e.g., an angiogenesis inhibitor,
an anti-inflammatory drug (e.g., a steroid or NSAID), a VEGF modulator (e.g., a VEGF
antagonist), a PDGF modulator (e.g., a PDGF antagonist), an immunosuppressive agent or a
vascular permeability inhibitor formulation) provided herein can be measured, for example, by
observing changes in pain intensity, changes in ocular lesions (size or number), intraocular
pressure, inflammation (e.g., by measuring changes in the Hackett/McDonald ocular score),
ocular hypertension, and/or visual acuity.
[001351         In another embodiment, the efficacy of the drug, e.g., an angiogenesis inhibitor,
an anti-inflammatory drug (e.g., a steroid or NSAID), a VEGF modulator (e.g., a VEGF
antagonist), a PDGF modulator (e.g., a PDGF antagonist), an immunosuppressive agent or a
vascular permeability inhibitor, can be measured, for example, by observing changes in the
                                                   40

measurements according to the Hackett/McDonald ocular scores, inflammation, visual acuity,
and/or edema. In another embodiment, the efficacy of the drug, for example triamcinolone or
mycopheno late , can be measured, for example, by observing changes in the measurements
according to the Hackett/McDonald ocular scores, inflammation, visual acuity, and/or edema. In
another embodiment, the therapeutic efficacy of the drug, for example sorafenib and/or axitinib,
can be measured, for example, by observing changes in lesion growth and/or number. In another
embodiment, the efficacy of the drug, for example infliximab (Remicade@), can be measured,
for example, by observing changes in retinal thickness, inflammation, visual acuity, photophobia,
typical time between flares, corneal ulceration, and/or edema.        In another embodiment, the
efficacy of the drug, for example nepafenac, can be measured, for example, by observing
changes in optical coherence tomography (OCT) measurements of retinal thickness and volume,
inflammation, visual acuity, pain and/or intraocular pressure.
1001361        In another embodiment, the efficacy of the drug, for example azathiopine, can be
measured, for example, by observing changes in visual acuity, macular edema, intraocular
pressure, inflammation, and/or measurements on the SF-36 Physical Component Score.              In
another embodiment, the efficacy of the drug, for example an anti-inflammatory drug such as an
TNF family antagonist, for example, TNF-a antagonist., lymphotoxin-a antagonist, lymphotoxin
F3 antagonist, CD27L antagonist, CD20L antagonist, FASL antagonist, 4-BBL antagonist,
OX40L antagonist, TNF-related apoptosis inducing ligand (TRAIL) antagonist, a Janus kinase
(JAK) antagonist, or interleukin antagonist, can be measured, for example, by observing changes
in inflammation, lesions, cell death, and/or visual acuity. In another embodiment, the therapeutic
efficacy of cyclophosphamide can be measured, for example, by observing changes in lesion size
and/or number, lesion growth, visual acuity, macular edema, intraocular pressure and/or
inflammation.
[001371        In one embodiment, the non-surgical administration of an effective amount of a
drug formulation to the SCS results in a decreased number of deleterious side effects or clinical
manifestations as compared to the number of side effects or clinical manifestations caused by the
same drug dose administered intravitreally, intracamerally, orally or parenterally.     In another
embodiment, the non-surgical administration of an effective amount of a drug formulation to the
SCS results in a decreased number of one or more deleterious side effects or clinical
                                                 41

manifestations, as compared to the deleterious side effects or clinical manifestations caused by
the same drug dose administered intravitreally, intracamerallv, orally or parenterally. Examples
of side effects and clinical manifestations that can be reduced or ameliorated include, but are not
limited to, inflammation, gastrointestinal side effects (e.g., diarrla, nausea,                                                                                  astroenterits,
      inetiepefrtsin                           bak    or     4   blod sa.tool.s,     nd/o            coughing          up    ;tbood);,u             hematlogi        side  effects
    CYrv                                            t-3c'-rn:0.o                                                                               .''O
    (       >R
             e      N'a
                           em                       pancytopenia and ag
                                                          lNN(                                    0C
                                                                                                             csis,             hpro
    puerd             elalai                  PRAdepvnu                            throrrosis                  asy     brising            and       /or     unusualThi bleing         t
  fot             nsemouhn                   vagna,'          -ectum)            i                  l
               o"cNC                                           *NoN                     '.oa'.'y'                                                                             S     0
            Itgncy uriar tract                                       inetosteauikid-Jney                       tubular necrS,                an/oB             vir-S associate
nephIropath)                    meaoicsd                    effects/ciia                   maiesaios(                          g           .-n dema hyper-"phophteia
                    side~~~~                                                       efea/ciia maietain (eg cne rash kI, dyhdZ i czem,                             paploqumoS d
           sieefcs/lnclmnifesQtton                                          e'        .        ypah             and/or            mu'NrNscle        an),hptcsd
    iniec                 ffis           rmse                 pennyls,                     mise                           mesrureid,                           sevr     hedce
                              conuson changein mental status,          visio.nlo,                 seizur        (covuli'on                    irs'                sent    iv i     to
                                                                                                                          As provided above, the reduction
or amelioration of the side effect or clinical manifestation is a reduction or amelioration, as
compared to the severity of the side effect or clinical manifestation prior to administration of the
drug formulation to the SCS of the eye of the patient, or a reduction or amelioration of the side
effect or clinical manifestation in the patient, as compared to the reduction or amelioration
experienced upon intravitreal, intracameral, parenteral or oral administration of the same drug.
                                                                                          42

[00138]          In one embodiment, the non-surgical administration of an effective amount of a
drug formulation to the SCS results in a decreased number of choroidal malady symptoms, as
compared to the number of symptoms experienced by the patient prior to administration of the
drug to the SCS, or compared to the number of symptoms experienced by the patient after
treatment with the same drug dose administered intravitreally, intracamerally, orally or
parenterally.
[00139]          In one embodiment, the non-surgical administration of the drug formulation
comprising an effective amount of a choroidal malady treating drug to the SCS of one or both
eyes of the patient results in a decreased number of deleterious side effects or deleterious clinical
manifestations, as compared to the number of deleterious side effects or clinical manifestations
caused by the same drug dose administered intravitreally, intracamerally, orally, topically or
parenterally. In another embodiment, the non-surgical administration of an effective amount of a
drug formulation to the SCS results in a decreased severity of a side effect or clinical
manifestation in a patient suffering from a choroidal malady.         In a further embodiment, the
severity of the side effect or clinical manifestation is decreased, compared to the severity of the
deleterious side effect or clinical manifestation caused by the same drug dose administered
intravitreally, intracamerally, orally, topically or parenterally. For example, in one embodiment,
subretinal exudation is reduced and/or subretinal bleeding is reduced in a patient suffering from a
choroidal malady, upon administration of the drug formulation to the SCS of the patient's eye, as
compared to the subretinal exudation and/or subretinal bleeding, prior to administration of the
drug to the SCS. In a further embodiment, the subretinal exudation is reduced and/or subretinal
bleeding is reduced in the patient, compared to the reduction in severity experienced when the
same drug is administered intravitreally, intracamerally, orally, topically or parenterally.
[001401          The delivery of the drug formulation to the SCS allows a greater retention of the
drug in the posterior ocular tissue, as compared to delivery of the same drug via a topical,
intravitreal, intracameral, oral or parenteral route. In one embodiment, the concentration of the
drug can be achieved at greater than 10 gg/g posterior ocular tissue for 28 days or longer after a
single dose. In another embodiment, the concentration of the drug can be achieved at greater
than 100 pag/g posterior ocular tissue for 28 days or longer after a single dose.         In another
embodiment, the concentration of the drug can be achieved at greater than 1000 pg/g tissue for
                                                   43

longer than 28 days after a single dose. It has been found that more hydrophobic drugs clear
slowly from the SCS compared to more water soluble drugs.         In one embodiment, the drug
formulation administered to the SC S comprises a more hydrophobic drug.
[00141]         In one embodiment, a method for treating a patient for a choroidal malady is
provided, wherein the method comprises non-surgically administering a drug formulation
comprising an effective amount of a choroidal malady treating drug (e.g., an angiogenesis
inhibitor such as a VEGF modulator) to the SCS of one or both eyes of the patient in need of
treatment, wherein upon administration, the drug formulation is substantially localized to the
posterior segment of the eve. In a further embodiment, the drug formulation is substantially
localized to the RPE. In one embodiment, the drug is substantially localized to the macula or the
subretinal space. One or more of the microneedles described herein, in one embodiment, are
used to carry out the method.
[00142]         The method of treating a choroidal malady in a human subject in need thereof
comprises, in one embodiment, non-surgically administering a drug formulation comprising an
effective amount of a choroidal malady treating drug to the suprachoroidal space of one or both
eyes of the human subject. In a further embodiment, the effective amount of the choroidal
malady treating drug comprises an effective amount of an anti-inflammatory drug, a vascular
endothelial growth factor (VEGF) modulator, a platelet derived growth factor (PDGF)
modulator, an angiogenesis inhibitor, an immunosuppressive agent or a vascular permeability
inhibitor.   In one embodiment, upon administration, the choroidal malady treating drug
formulation flows away from the insertion site and is substantially localized to the posterior
segment of the eye.     In one embodiment, the non-surgical methods provided herein allow for
longer retention of the drug in the eye, as compared to intravitreal, topical, parenteral or oral
administration of the same drug dose.
[001431         In patients undergoing ocular treatment via shunts or cannulae, or other surgical
methods, a marked increase or decrease in intraocular pressure has been reported after the
treatment method commences.         In one embodiment, the intraocular pressure (lOP) of the
patient's eye undergoing treatment for the posterior ocular disorder or choroidal maladay, 2
minutes, 10 minutes, 15 minutes or 30 minutes after suprachoroidal drug administration, is
                                                44

substantially the same LOP, compared to the IOP of the patient's eye prior to administration of
the posterior ocular disorder or choroidal malady treating drug. In one embodiment, the IOP of
the patient's eye undergoing treatment for the posterior ocular disorder or choroidal maladay, 2
minutes, 10 minutes, 15 minutes or 30 minutes after suprachoroidal drug administration, varies
by no more than 10%, compared to the LOP of the patient's eye prior to administration of the
posterior ocular disorder or choroidal malady treating drug. In one embodiment, the LOP of the
patient's eve undergoing treatment for the posterior ocular disorder or choroidal maladay, 2
minutes, 10 minutes, 15 minutes or 30 minutes after suprachoroidal drug administration, varies
by no more than 20%, compared to the LOP of the patient's eye prior to administration of the
posterior ocular disorder or choroidal malady treating drug. In one embodiment, the LOP of the
patient's eve undergoing treatment for the posterior ocular disorder or choroidal maladay, 2
minutes, 10 minutes., 15 minutes or 30 minutes after suprachoroidal drug administration, varies
by no more than 10%-30%, compared to the IOP of the patient's eye prior to administration of
the posterior ocular disorder or choroidal malady treating drug. In a further embodiment, the
effective amount of the posterior ocular disorder or choroidal malady treating drug comprises an
effective amount of an anti-inflannatory drug, a vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)
modulator, a platelet derived growth factor (PDGF) modulator, an angiogenesis inhibitor, an
immunosuppressive agent or a vascular permeability inhibitor.
[001441         The choroidal malady amenable for treatment with the methods described herein,
in one embodiment, is a choroidal neovascularization, choroidal sclerosis, polypoidal choroidal
vasculopathy, central sirrus choroidopathy, a multi-focal choroidopathy or a choroidal dystrophy.
The choroidal dystrophy, for example, is central gyrate choroidal dystrophy, serpiginous
choroidal dystrophy or total central choroidal atrophy. In some embodiments, the patient in need
of treatment of the choroidal malady experiences subretinal exudation and bleeding, and the
methods provided herein lessen the subretinal exudation and/or bleeding, compared to the
subretinal exudation and/or bleeding experienced by the patient prior to administration of the
drug formulation to the SCS.        In another embodiment, the patient in need of treatment
experiences subretinal exudation and bleeding, and the subretinal exudation and bleeding
experienced by the patient after undergoing one of the non-surgical treatment methods provided
                                                45

herein is less than the subretinal exudation and bleeding experienced by the patient after
intravitreal therapy with the same drug at the same dose.
[00145]          In one embodinent, the methods provided herein provide for effective treatment
of a patient who had previously undergone choroidal malady or posterior ocular disorder
treatment, but was unresponsive, or not properly responsive to the prior treatment. For example,
in one embodiment, a patient undergoing a choroidal malady treatment method or posterior
ocular disorder treatment method of the present invention was previously treated for the same
choroidal malady or posterior ocular disorder, but was unresponsive or not properly responsive.
As one of skill in the art will appreciate, a patient unresponsive or not properly responsive to
treatment does not exhibit an improvement in a symptom or improvement in a clinical
manifestation of the choroidal malady or posterior ocular disorder.      In one embodiment, the
symptom or clinical manifestation is lesion size, inflammation, edema, visual acuity or vitreous
haze.
1001461          In one embodiment, a patient in need of treatment of polypoidal choroidal
vasculopathy is treated with one of the non-surgical SCS drug delivery methods provided herein.
For example, in one embodiment, a patient in need of treatment is administered a drug
formulation comprising an effective amount of a PCV treating drug to the SCS of one or both
eyes. In a further embodiment, drug formulation administration is carried out with a microneedle
device described herein. In even a further embodiment, the effective amount of the PC'V treating
drug comprises an effective amount of an anti-inflammatory drug, a vascular endothelial growth
factor (VEGF) modulator, a platelet derived growth factor (PDGF) modulator, an angiogenesis
inhibitor, an immunosuppressive agent or a vascular permeability inhibitor.
1001471          PCV is an abnormal choroidal vasculopathy that is believed to be a variant of type
 I neovascularization, although it has been proposed that PCV is a distinct vascular abnormality
of choroidal vessels (Imamura et al. (2010). Survey of Ophthalmology, volume 55, pp. 501-515,
incorporated by reference herein). PCV has been reported to occur at a higher frequency in
pigmented races, although it has also been reported to be present in Caucasian patients.
(Imamura et al. (2010).     Survey of Ophthalmology, volume 55, pp. 501-515, incorporated by
reference herein). The methods described herein are employable in patients of both pigmented
                                                 46

and non-pigmented patients.      For example, the patient receiving treatment for PCV, in one
embodiment, is of African, Hispanic, Middle Eastern or Asian descent. In another embodiment,
the patient receiving treatment is Caucasian.
[00148]         Clinical manifestations of patients with PC'V include vascular abnormalities and
variably sized serous, serosanguineous detachments of the neurosensory retina and pigment
epithelium around the optic nerve or in the central macula. Subretinal exudation and/or bleeding
can also be experienced by patients with PCV. In another embodiment, the PCV patient has lipid
depositions in the eye.    The present invention provides for a reduction in occurrence and/or
severity of a PC'V clinical manifestation experienced by the PCV patient treated with the
methods described herein, compared to the occurrence and/or severity of the clinical
manifestation prior to treatment. For example, a patient receiving treatment for PCV with one of
the non-surgical treatment methods provided herein, experiences a reduction in the occurrence
and/or severity of a vascular abnormality, as compared to the occurrence and/or severity of the
vascular abnormality manifested prior to undergoing treatment with the non-surgical SCS drug
delivery method. In another embodiment, the severity of subretinal exudation and/or bleeding is
reduced in the PCV patient, compared to the severity of the subretinal exudation and/or bleeding
prior to undergoing treatment with one of the non-surgical SCS drug delivery methods described
herein. PCV treating drugs, e.g., angiogenesis inhibitors, VEGF modulators, PDGF modulators,
anti-inflammatory drugs, vascular permeability inhibitors, are described in more detail below.
[001491         In one embodiment, the patient being treated for PCV with one of the non
surgical methods described herein, is also treated for a second ocular disease.      In a further
embodiment, the additional ocular disease is drusen, sickle cell retinopathy, central serous
chorioretinopathy, typical neovascular (type I or 2) age related macular degeneration,
melanocytoma of the optic nerve, circumscribed choroidal hemangioma, the tilted disk
syndrome, pathological myopia, choroidal osteoma, retinal microangiopathy. The treatment of
the second ocular disease can be performed with the non-surgical SCS drug delivery methods
described herein, or other methods known in the art, for example, intravitreal or topical drug
administration.
                                                 47

[00150]         In another embodiment, the method for treating a choroidal malady described
herein, i.e., non-surgical drug delivery to the SCS of one or both eyes of the patient, is a method
for treating a patient for central serous chorioretinopathy (CSC) (also known as central serous
retinopathy (CSR)). CSR is an exudative chorioreditopathy, and is characterized by an exudative
neurosensory retinal detachment with or without an associated detachment of the retinal pigment
epithelium (RPE). CSR, in some instances, results in metamorphopsia and micropsia. In some
instances, CSR is characterized by leakage of fluid under the retina. Additionally, patients with
CSR often experience reduced visual acuity. In one embodiment, a method for treating a patient
for CSR is provided, comprising non-surgically administering a drug formulation comprising an
effective amount of a CSR treating drug to the SCS of one or both eyes of the patient. The drug
is administered, in one embodiment, with one of the microneedles described herein. In a further
embodiment, the CSR treating drug is an anti-inflammatory drug, a vascular endothelial growth
factor (VEGF) modulator (e.g., a VEGF antagonist), a platelet derived growth factor (PDGF)
modulator (e.g., a PDGF antagonist), an angiogenesis inhibitor, an immunosuppressive agent or
a vascular permeability inhibitor. In a further embodiment, the patient treated for CSR by one of
the methods described herein experiences an increase in visual acuity, compared to the patient's
visual acuity prior to undergoing the treatment.       In another embodiment, the patient, after
undergoing treatment for CSR, experiences a decrease in leakage of fluid under the retina,
compared to the leakage of fluid under the retina experienced by the patient prior to undergoing
treatment via non-surgical SCS drug delivery.
[00151]         In yet another embodiment, a method for treating a patient for multi-focal
choroiditis (MFC) is provided. In one embodiment, the MFC treatment method comprises non
surgically administering a drug formulation comprising an effective amount of a MFC treating
drug to the SCS of one or both eyes of the patient in need of MFC treatment.               The drug
formiulation is administered, in one embodiment, with one of the microneedles described herein.
In a further embodiment, the effective amount of the MFC treating drug comprises an effective
amount of an anti-inflammatory drug, a vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) modulator
(e.g., a VEGF antagonist), a platelet derived growth factor (PDGF) modulator (e.g., a PDGF
antagonist), an angiogenesis inhibitor, an immunosuppressive agent or a vascular permeability
inhibitor. The MFC patient, in one embodiment, is moderately myopic, and in one embodiment,
                                                 48

is affected bilaterally.  The MFC patient, in some embodiments, presents with symptoms of
posterior uveitis including decreased visual acuity, floaters, photopsias, as well as with anterior
segment symptomns such as photophobia.        In one embodiment, the MFC patient presents with
vitreous cell and/or anterior chamber cell.     Funduscopic findings in MFC patients consist of
yellow to gray lesions at the level of the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) and choriocapillaris.
The lesions range in size from about 50 gm to about 1,000 gm and have a distribution in the
peripapillary region. The methods provided herein, in one embodiment, reduce the lesion size
and/or number in the patient receiving treatment. Active lesions in some instances are associated
with subretinal fluid and fluffy borders. Active disease may be also associated with optic nerve
head hyperemia and edema, cystoid macular edema and macular and peripapillary choroidal
neovascularization.
1001521         In one embodiment, the method for treating a patient for MFC comprises non
surgically administering a drug formulation comprising an effective amount of a MFC treating
drug to the SCS of one or both eyes of the patient in need of treatment. In a further embodiment,
the method comprises administration of the drug formulation to the SCS of one or both eyes of
the patient with one of the microneedles described herein. For example, a drug formulation is
delivered in one embodiment to the SCS of an eye of the patient via a hollow microneedle with a
tip and an opening, through the opening and into the SCS. In a further embodiment, the effective
amount of the MFC treating drug is an effective amount of an anti-inflammatory drug,
angiogenesis inhibitor, VEGF modulator or vascular permeability inhibitor.            In a further
embodiment, the patient treated for MFC experiences a decreased number of lesion(s) (e.g.,
decreased number of lesion(s) in the RPE), decreased size of lesion(s) (e.g., decreased size of
lesion(s) present in the RPE), decreased amount of subretinal fluid, an increase in visual acuity,
or an attenuation in choroidal neovascularization, compared to the number of lesion(s), the size
of lesion(s), amount of subretinal fluid, visual acuity and choroidal neovascularization in the eve
of the patient, prior to undergoing the MFC treatment method of the invention.          In another
embodiment, the patient treated for MFC experiences an attenuation of optic nerve head
hvperemia and edema, compared to the optic nerve head hyperemia and edema experienced by
the patient prior to undergoing treatment via the non-surgical SCS drug delivery method of the
invention.
                                                 49

[00153]          In one embodiment, a patient in need of treatment of choroidal neovascularization
is treated with one of the non-surgical SCS drug delivery methods provided herein.                 For
example, in one embodiment, a patient in need of treatment is administered a drug formulation
comprising an effective amount of a choroidal neovascularization treating drug to the SCS of one
or both eyes. In a further embodiment, drug formulation administration is carried out with a
microneedle device described herein. In one embodiment, the effective amount of the choroidal
neovascularization treating drug is an anti-inflammatory drug, angiogenesis inhibitor, VEGF
modulator, (e.g., a VEGF antagonist), a platelet derived growth factor (PDGF) modulator (e.g., a
PDGF antagonist), an angiogenesis inhibitor, an immunosuppressive agent or a vascular
permeability inhibitor.
1001541          In one embodiment, a patient in need of treatment of choroidal dystrophy is
treated with one of the non-surgical SCS drug delivery methods provided herein. For example,
in one embodiment, a patient in need of treatment is administered a drug formulation comprising
an effective amount of a choroidal dystrophy treating drug to the SCS of one or both eyes. In a
further embodiment, the effective amount of the choroidal dystrophy treating drug comprises an
effective amount of an anti-inflamnmatory drug, a vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)
modulator, a platelet derived growth factor (PDGF) modulator, an angiogenesis inhibitor, an
immunosuppressive agent or a vascular permeability inhibitor. In a further embodiment, drug
formulation administration is carried out with a microneedle device described herein.              The
choroidal dystrophy methods provided herein, in one embodiment, improve a symptom or
clinical manifestation of the choroidal dystrophy to a greater extent, compared to the identical
drug administered to the patient via a topical, oral, parenteral, intravitreal or intracameral route.
[00155]          In yet another embodiment, the method for treating a choroidal malady described
herein, i.e., a non-surgical SCS drug delivery method described herein, is a method for treating a
patient for punctuate inner choroidopathy (PIC). In one embodiment, the method for treating a
patient for PIC comprises non-surgically administering a drug formulation comprising an
effective amount of a PIC treating drug to the SCS of one or two eyes of the patient. In a further
embodiment, the method comprises drug delivery with one of the microneedles described herein.
In one embodiment, the effective amount of the PIC treating drug is an anti-inflammatory drug,
                                                 50

angiogenesis inhibitor, immunosuppressive agent, VEGF modulator (e.g., a VEGF antagonist), a
PDGF modulator (e.g., a PDGF antagonist) or vascular permeability inhibitor.
[00156]        In one embodiment, a PIC patient undergoing one of the SCS treatment methods
provided herein experiences an improved PIC symptom/clinical manifestation, or a decreased
number    of PIC symptoms/clinical       manifestations,   compared to the        symptoms/clinical
manifestations experienced prior to SCS drug administration.         In a further embodiment, the
symptomi/clinical manifestation is inflammation,      blurred vision, photopsia, central and/or
peripheral scotomatas or metamorphopsias.         In another embodiment, the symptom/clinical
manifestation is decreased visual acuity, bilateral white-yellow chorioretinal lesion(s) (e.g., from
about 100 pm to about 200 pm in diameter) at the level of the inner choroid and retinal pigment
epithelium. The lesion(s) typically is not associated with vitritis and typically does not extend to
the midperiphery. PIC lesions progress to atrophic scars and leave a halo of depigmentation. In
one embodiment, the PIC patient treated with one of the non-surgical SCS drug delivery methods
described herein experiences decreased inflarnmation, a decreased number of lesion(s), or
decreased size of lesion(s), as compared to the inflammation, number of lesion(s), or size of
lesion(s) manifested by the patient prior to therapy. In another embodiment, PIC patient treated
with one of the non-surgical SCS drug delivery methods described herein experiences decreased
inflammation, a decreased number of lesion(s), or decreased size of lesion(s), as compared to the
inflammation, number of lesion(s), or size of lesion(s) after intravitreal, oral, topical, parenteral
or intracameral drug therapy with the same drug dose as administered to the SCS.
[001571        In one embodiment, the method for treating a choroidal malady described herein
is a method for treating a patient for choroidal dystrophy. In one embodiment, the method for
treating a patient for a choroidal dystrophy comprises non-surgically administering a drug
formulation comprising an effective amount of a choroidal dystrophy treating drug to the SCS of
one or both eyes of the patient in need of treatment.       In a further embodiment, the method
comprises delivering the drug formulation to the SCS of one or both eyes of the patient via a
hollow microneedle having a tip and an opening. In a further embodiment, the effective amount
of the choroidal dystrophy treating drug comprises an effective amount of an anti-inflammatory
drug, a vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) modulator (e.g., a VEGF antagonist), a
platelet derived growth factor (PDGF) modulator (e.g., a PDGF antagonist), an angiogenesis
                                                 51

inhibitor, an immunosuppressive agent or a vascular permeability inhibitor. In one embodiment,
the microneedle is inserted into the sclera and the drug formulation is infused into the SCS
through the opening of the inserted microneedle. The choroidal dystrophy, in one embodiment,
is central areolar chroidal dystrophy (CACD), central gyrate choroidal dystrophy, serpiginous
choroidal dystrophy, or total central choroidal atrophy. In a further embodiment, the patient is
treated for CACD, and the CACD is CACDI, CACD2 or CACD3.                      The CACD, in one
embodiment, is with drusen. In another embodiment, the CACD is without drusen.
[00158]         The choroidal dystrophy treatment methods provided herein, in one embodiment,
decrease the number of choroidal dystrophy symptom(s) experienced by the patient prior to
therapy.   In another embodiment, the choroidal dystrophy treatment methods provided herein
decrease the severity of choroidal dystrophy symptom(s) experienced by the patient prior to
therapy.
[00159]         In one embodiment of the choroidal malady treatment methods described herein
non-surgical delivery of a drug formulation comprising an effective amount of a choroidal
malady treating drug, for example an effective amount of an anti-inflammatory drug (e.g., a
steroidal compound or an N SAID), a vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) modulator (e.g.,
a VEGF antagonist), an immunosuppressive agent, an angiogenesis inhibitor (e.g., a platelet
derived growth factor (PDGF) antagonist), or a vascular permeability inhibitor, to the SCS of one
or both eyes of the patient in need of treatment, is achieved by inserting a microneedle into the
eye of a patient, and infusing the drug into the SCS through the microneedle, or infused into the
SCS via a coating on a solid or hollow microneedle. The solid or hollow microneedle, in one
embodiment, is inserted into the sclera. In one embodiment, a hollow microneedle with a tip and
an opening is inserted into the sclera, and the drug formulation is injected or infused through the
inserted microneedle and into the suprachoroidal space of the eye.       In another embodiment, a
solid microneedle with an effective amount of a choroidal malady treating drug coated on the
microneedle is inserted into the sclera, and the drug diffuses into the SCS of the eye of the
patient.
[001601         The drug formulation delivered to the suprachoroidal space of the eye of a human
subject for the treatment of a posterior ocular disorder or a choroidal malady, may be in the form
                                                 52

of a liquid drug, a liquid solution that includes a drug in a suitable solvent, or liquid suspension.
The liquid suspension may include microparticles or nanoparticles dispersed in a suitable liquid
vehicle for infusion.     In various embodiments, the drug is included in a liquid vehicle, in
microparticles or nanoparticles, or in both the vehicle and particles. The drug formulation is
sufficiently fluid to flow into and within the suprachoroidal space, as well as into the surrounding
posterior ocular tissues. In one embodiment, the viscosity of the fluid drug formulation is about
 1 cl at 37 'C.
1001611         A wide range of drugs may be formulated for delivery to the suprachoroidal space
and posterior ocular tissues with the present microneedle devices and methods. As used herein,
the term "drug" refers to any prophylactic, therapeutic, or diagnostic agent, i.e., an ingredient
useful for medical applications.      The drug may be selected from small molecules, proteins,
peptides and fragments thereof, which can be naturally occurring, synthesized or recombinantly
produced. For example, in one embodiment, the drug delivered to the suprachoroidal space with
the non-surgical methods described herein is an antibody or a fragment thereof (e.g., a Fab, Fv or
Fe fragment).      In certain embodiments, the drug is a sub-immunoglobulin antigen-binding
molecule, such as Fv immunoglobulin fragment, minibody, diabody, and the like, as described in
U.S. Patent No. 6,773,916, incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes. In
one embodiment, the drug is a humanized antibody or a fragment thereof.
1001621          In one embodiment, the drug is selected from a suitable oligonucleotide (e.g.,
antisense oligonucleotide agents), polynucleotide (e.g., therapeutic DNA), ribozyme., dsRN A,
siRNA, RINAi, gene therapy vectors, and/or vaccine.        In a further embodiment, the drug is an
aptamer (e.g., an oligonucleotide or peptide molecule that binds to a specific target molecule).
In another embodiment, the drug formulation delivered via the methods provided herein
comprises a small molecule drug, an endogenous protein or fragment thereof, or an endogenous
peptide or fragment thereof
[001631         Representative examples of types of drugs for delivery to ocular tissues include
anti-inflaninatory     drugs,  including,  but   not  limited   to  steroids,  immunosuppressives,
antimetabolites, T-cell inhibitors, alkylating agents, biologics, TNF antagonists (e.g., TNF-a
antagonists), VEGF antagonists, and/or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Non-

limiting examples of specific drugs and classes of drugs that can be delivered to the
suprachoroidal space to treat posterior ocular disorders include miotics (e.g., pilocarpine,
carbachol, physostigmine), sympathonimetics (e.g., adrenaline, dipivefrine), carbonic anhydrase
inhibitors (e.g., acetazolamide, dorzolamide), VEGF antagonists, PDGF antagonists, NSAIDs,
steroids, prostaglandins, anti-microbial compounds, including anti-bacterials and anti-fungals
(e.g., chloramphenicol, chlortetracycline, ciprofloxacin, framycetin, fusidic acid, gentamicin,
neomycin,      norfloxacin,   ofloxacin,  polymyxin,     propamidine,     tetracycline,   tobramycin,
quinolines), aldose reductase inhibitors, anti-inflammatory and/or anti-allergy compounds (e.g.,
steroidal compounds such as triamcinolone,           betamethasone.   clobetasone,    dexamethasone,
fluorometholone, hydrocortisone, prednisolone and non-steroidal compounds such as antazoline,
bromfenac, diclofenac, indomethacin, lodoxamide, saprofen, sodium cromoglycate), artificial
tear/dry   eye    therapies, local  anesthetics   (e.g., amethocaine,    lignocaine,    oxbuprocaine,
proxymetacaine), cyclosporine, diclofenac, urogastrone and growth factors such as epidermal
growth factor, mydriatics and cycloplegics, mitomycin C, and collagenase inhibitors and
treatments of age-related macular degeneration such as pegagtanib sodium, ranibizumab, and
bevacizumab.
[001641          As provided throughout, in some embodiments, methods of delivering a drug
formulation comprising an effective amount of an angi genesis inhibitor, an anti-inflammatory
drug (e.g., a steroid or NSAID), a VEGF modulator (e.g., a VEGF antagonist), a PDGF
modulator (e.g., a PDGF antagonist), an immunosuppressive agent or a vascular permeability
inhibitor, to the SCS of an eye of a patient in need thereof are provided.
[001651          In one embodiment, the angiogenesis inhibitor is an integrin antagonist, a selectin
antagonist, an adhesion molecule antagonist (e.g., antagonist of intercellular adhesion molecule
(ICAM)-i, ICAM-2., ICAM-3, platelet endothelial adhesion molecule (PCAM), vascular cell
adhesion molecule (VCAM)), lymphocyte function-associated antigen 1 (LFA-1))., a basic
fibroblast growth factor antagonist, a vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) modulator, or a
platelet derived growth factor (PDGF) modulator (e.g., a PDGF antagonist).               The integrin
antagonist delivered via the methods described herein, in one embodiment, is a small molecule
integrin antagonist, for example, an antagonist described by Paolillo et al. (Mini Rev Med Chem,
2009, volume 12, pp. 1439-1446, incorporated by reference in its entirety), or a leukocyte
                                                  54

adhesion-inducing cytokine or growth factor antagonist (e.g.., tumor necrosis factor-a ('TNF-),
interleukin-1     (IL-i ). monocyte chemotactic protein-i (MCP-1) and a vascular endothelial
growth factor (VEGF)), as described in U.S. Patent No. 6,524,581, incorporated by reference in
its entirety herein.    In another embodiment, the drug may be a diagnostic agent, such as a
contrast agent, known in the art.
1001661          In one embodiment, the intraocular elimination half life (t2) of the angiogenesis
inhibitor administered to the SCS is greater than the intraocular tj2 of the angiogenesis inhibitor,
when the identical       dosage of the angiogenesis        inhibitor is administered intravitreally,
intracamerally, topically, parenterally or orally. In another embodiment, the mean intraocular
maximum concentration (Cmnax) of the angiogenesis inhibitor, when the identical dosage of the
angiogenesis inhibitor is administered to the SCS via the methods described herein, is greater
than the intraocular Cax of the angiogenesis inhibitor, when the identical dosage is administered
intravitreally, intracamerally, topically, parenterally or orally. In another embodiment, the mean
intraocular area under the curve (AUCo-t) of the angiogenesis inhibitor when administered to the
SCS via the methods described herein, is greater than the intraocular AUCot of the angiogenesis
inhibitor, when the identical dosage of the angiogenesis inhibitor is administered intravitreally,
intracamerally, topically, parenterally or orally.
[001671          The angiogenesis inhibitor delivered via the methods and devices described
herein, in one embodiment, is interferon gamma 11p, interferon gamma 1p3 (Actimmune@) with
pirfenidone, ACUHTR028, aV35., aminobenzoate potassium, amyloid P, ANGI 122, ANGi 170,
ANG3062,       ANG3281,      ANG3298,       ANG401 1, anti-CTGF        RNAi,    Aplidin, astragalus
membranaceus extract with salvia and schisandra chinensis, atherosclerotic plaque blocker, Azol,
AZXIOO, BB3, connective tissue growth factor antibody, CT140, danazol, Esbriet, EXC00I,
EXCO02, EXCO03, EXCOO4, EXCO05, F647, FG3019, Fibrocorin, Follistatin, FTO11, a galectin
3 inhibitor, GKTI37831, GMCTOI, GMCT02, GRMD01, GRMD02, GRN51 0, Heberon Alfa R,
interferon      3-2,ITMN520, JKBI19, JKB121, JKBJ22, KRX168, LPAl receptor antagonist,
MGN4220, MIA2, microRNA 29a oligonucleotide, MMI0100, noscapine, PB14050, PB14419,
PDGFR inhibitor, PF-06473871, PGN0052, Pirespa, Pirfenex, pirfenidone, plitidepsin, PRMI151,
Px102, PYN17, PYN22 with PYN17, Relivergen, rhPTX2 fusion protein, RX1109, secretin,

STX100, TGF-11 Inhibitor, transforming growth factor, (3-receptor 2 oligonucleotide,VA999260
or XV615.
[00168]         Specific endogenous angiogenesis      inhibitors for delivery via the methods
described herein include endostatin, a 20 kDa (-terminal fragment derived from type XVIII
collagen, angiostatin (a 38 kDa fragment of plasmin), or a member of the thrombospondin (TSP)
family of proteins. In a further embodiment, the angiogenesis inhibitor is a TSP-1, TSP-2, TSP
3, TSP-4 and TSP-5. Other endogenous angiogenesis inhibitors that are amenable for delivery
via the choroidal malady treatment methods described herein include a soluble VEGF receptor,
e.g., soluble VEGFR-J and neuropilin I (NPR1), angiopoietin-1, angiopoietin-2, vasostatin,
calreticulin, platelet factor-4, a tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase (TIMP) (e.g., TIMP1,
TIMP2, TIMP3, TIMP4), cartilage-derived angiogenesis inhibitor (e.g., peptide troponin I and
chrondomodulin 1),     a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motif 1, an
interferon (IFN) (e.g., IFN-at, IFN-F, IFN-y), a chemokine, e.g., a chemokine having the (-X-C
motif (e.g., CXCL10, also known as interferon gamma-induced protein 10 or small inducible
cytokine B 10), an interleukin cytokine (e.g., IL-4, IL-12, IL-18), prothrombin, antithrombin III
fragment, prolactin, the protein encoded by the TNFSF15 genc, osteopontin, maspin, canstatin
and proliferin-related protein.
1001691         In one embodiment, the angiogenesis inhibitor delivered via the methods
described herein to treat a choroidal malady, is an antibody.       In a further embodiment, the
antibody is a humanized monoclonal antibody. In even a further embodiment, the humanized
monoclonal antibody is bevacizumab.
1001701         In one embodiment, the non-surgical treatment methods and devices described
herein may be used in gene-based therapy applications.         For example, the method, in one
embodiment, comprises administering a fluid drug formulation into the suprachoroidal space to
deliver select DNA, RNA., or oligonucleotides to targeted ocular tissues.
1001711         In one embodiment, the drug is useful in treating a choroidal malady. In a further
embodiment, the choroidal malady treating drug is a nucleic acid administered to inhibit gene
expression.    For example, the nucleic acid, in one embodiment, is a micro-ribonucleic acid
(microRNA), a small interfering RNA (siRNA), a small hairpin RNA (shRNA) or a double
                                                56

stranded RNA (dsRNA), that targets a gene involved in angiogenesis. In one embodiment, the
methods provided herein to treat a choroidal malady comprise administering an RNA molecule
to the SCS of a patient in need thereof. In a further embodiment, the RNA molecule is delivered
to the SCS via one of the microneedles described herein. In one embodiment, the patient is
being treated for PCV, and the RNA molecule targets H7RA1, CFH, elastin or ARM] S2, such that
the expression of the targeted gene is downregulated in the patient, upon administration of the
RNA.    In a further embodiment, the targeted gene is (FH, and the RNA molecule targets a
polymorphism      selected   from rs3753394, rs800292,     rs3753394, rs6680396,     rs1410996,
rs2284664, rs1329428, and rs1065489. In another embodiment, the patient is being treated for a
choroidal dystrophy, and the RNA molecule targets the PRPH2 gene. In a further embodiment,
the RNA molecule targets a mutation in the PRPH2 gene.
1001721        In one embodiment, the drug delivered to the suprachoroidal space using the non
surgical methods (e.g., microneedle devices and methods) herein is sirolimus (Rapamycin@Y,
Rapamune@). In one embodiment, the non-surgical drug delivery methods disclosed herein are
used in conjunction with rapamycin to treat, prevent and/or ameliorate a wide range of diseases
or disorders including, but not limited to: abdominal neoplasms, acquired immunodeficiency
syndrome, acute coronary syndrome, acute lymphoblastic leukemia, acute myelocytic leukemia,
acute non-lymphoblastic leukemia, adenocarcinoma, adenoma, adenomyoepithelioma, adnexal
diseases, anaplastic astrocytoma, anaplastic large cell lymphoma, anaplastic plasmacytoma,
anemia,    angina    pectoris,   angioimmunoblastic    lymphadenopathy   with   dysproteinemia,
angiomyolipoma, arterial occlusive diseases, arteriosclerosis, astrocytoma, atherosclerosis,
autoimmune diseases, B-cell lymphomas, blood coagulation disorders, blood protein disorders,
bone cancer, bone marrow diseases, brain diseases, brain neoplasms, breast beoplasms, bronchial
neoplasms, carcinoid syndrome, carcinoid Tumor, carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, central
nervous system diseases, central nervous system neoplasms, choroid diseases, choroid plexus
neoplasms, choroidal neo vascularization, choroiditis, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, chronic
myeloid leukemia, chronic myelomonocytic leukemia, chronic myeloproliferative disorders,
chronic neutrophilic leukemia, clear cell renal cell carcinoma, colonic diseases, colonic
neoplasms, colorectal neoplasms, coronary artery disease, coronary disease, coronary Occlusion,
coronary restenosis, coronary stenosis, coronary thrombosis, cutaneous T-cell lymphoma,

diabetes mellitus, digestive system neoplasms, dry eye syndromes, ear diseases, edema,
endocrine gland neoplasms, endocrine system diseases, endometrial neoplasms, Endometrial
stromal tumors, Ewing's sarcoma, exanthema, eye neoplasms, fibrosis, follicular lymphoma,
gastrointestinal diseases, gastrointestinal neoplasms, genital neoplasms, glioblastoma, glioma,
gliosarcoma, graft vs host disease, hematologic diseases, hematologic neoplasms, hemorrhagic
disorders, hemostatic disorders, Hodgkin disease, Hodgkin lymphoma, homologous wasting
disease,     immunoblastic       lymphadenopathy,        immunologic       deficiency      syndromes,
immunoproliferative      disorders,  infarction,    inflammation,   intestinal   diseases,   intestinal
neoplasms, ischemia, kidney cancer, kidney diseases, kidney neoplasms, leukemia, B-Cell,
leukemia,    lymphoid,    liver  cancer,   liver  diseases,  lung   diseases,   lymphatic     diseases,
lymphoblastic lymphoma, lymphoma, macular degeneration, macular edema, melanoma, mouth
neoplasms, multiple mycloma, myelodysplastic syndromes, myelofibrosis, myeloproliferative
disorders, neuroectodermal tumors, neuroendocrine tumors, neuroepithelioma, neurofibroma,
renal cancer, respiratory tract diseases, retinal degeneration, retinal diseases, retinal neoplasms,
retinoblastoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, thoracic neoplasms, uveitis, vascular diseases, Waldenstrom
Macroglobulinemia, and wet macular degeneration. In addition, delivery of rapamycin using the
microneedle devices and methods disclosed herein may be combined with one or more agents
listed herein or with other agents known in the art.
[001731         In one embodiment, the angiogenesis inhibitor delivered to the suprachoroidal
space using the non-surgical methods described herein is an antagonist of a member of the
platelet derived growth factor (PDGF) family, for example, a drug that inhibits, reduces or
modulates the signaling and/or activity of PDGF-receptors (PDGFR). For example, the PDGF
antagonist delivered to the suprachoroidal space for the treatment of a choroidal malady, in one
embodiment, is an anti-PDGF aptamer, an anti-PDGF antibody or fragment thereof, an anti
PDGFR antibody or fragment thereof, or a small molecule antagonist. In one embodiment, the
PDGF antagonist is an antagonist of the PDGFR-a or PDGFR-. In one embodiment, the PDGF
antagonist is the anti-PDGF-f3 aptamer E10030, sunitinib, axitinib, sorefenib, imatinib, imatinib
mesylate, nintedanib, pazopanib HCi,     ponatinib, MK-2461, dovitinib, pazopanib, crenolanib, PP
 121, telatinib, imatinib, KRN 633, CP 673451, TSU-68, Ki8751, amuvatinib, tivozanib,
masitinib, motesanib diphosphate, dovitinib dilactic acid, linifanib (ABT-869).
                                                  58

[00174]         In one embodiment, the intraocular elimination half life (ti2) of the PDGF
antagonist administered to the SCS is greater than the intraocular t/2 of the PDGF antagonist,
when the identical dosage of the PDGF antagonist is administered intravitreally, intracamerally,
topically, parenterally or orally. In another embodiment, the mean intraocular maximum
concentration (Cmax) of the PDGF antagonist, when administered to the SCS via the methods
described herein, is greater than the intraocular Cmax of the PDGF antagonist, when the identical
dosage of the PDGF antagonist is administered intravitreally, intracamerally, topically,
parenterally or orally. In another embodiment, the mean intraocular area under the curve (AUCO.
t) of the PDGF antagonist, when administered to the SCS via the methods described herein, is
greater than the intraocular AUCo- of the PDGF antagonist, when the identical dosage of the
PDGF antagonist is administered intravitreally, intracamerally, topically, parenterally or orally.
1001751        In certain embodiments, the drug delivered to the suprachoroidal space using the
microneedle devices and methods disclosed herein is vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)
modulator. For example, in one embodiment, the VEGF modulator is a VEGF antagonist. In one
embodiment, the VEGF modulator is a VEGF-receptor kinase antagonist, an anti-VEGF
antibody or fragment thereof, an anti-VEGF receptor antibody, an anti-VEGF aptamer, a small
molecule VEGF antagonist, a thiazolidinedione, a quinoline or a designed ankyrin repeat protein
(DARPin).
1001761         In one embodiment, the VEGF antagonist delivered via the non-surgical methods
described herein is an antagonist of a VEGF receptor (VEGFR), i.e., a drug that inhibits, reduces,
or modulates the signaling and/or activity of a VEGFR. The VEGFR may be a membrane-bound
or soluble VEGFR. In a further embodiment, the VEGFR is VEGFR-1. VEGFR-2 or VEGFR-3.
In one embodiment, the VEGF antagonist targets the VEGF-C protein. In another embodiment,
the VEGF modulator is an antagonist of a tyrosine kinase or a tyrosine kinase receptor.            In
another embodiment, the VEGF modul'ator is a modulator of the VEGF-A protein. In yet another
embodiment, the VEGF antagonist is a monoclonal antibody.          In a further embodiment, the
monoclonal antibody is a humanized monoclonal antibody.
[001771        In one embodiment, the intraocular elimination half life (t)          of the VEGF
antagonist administered to the SCS is greater than the intraocular tim of the VEGF antagonist,
                                                 59

when the identical dosage of the VEGF antagonist is administered intravitreally, intracamerally,
topically, parenterally or orally.     In another embodiment, the mean intraocular maximum
concentration (Cma)    of the VEGF antagonist, when administered to the SCS via the methods
described herein, is greater than the intraocular Cmn of the VEGF antagonist, when the identical
dosage of the VEGF antagonist is administered intravitreally, intracamerally, topically,
parenterally or orally. In another embodiment, the mean intraocular area under the curve (AUCo_
t) of the VEGF antagonist, when administered to the SCS via the methods described herein, is
greater than the intraocular AUCot of the VEGF antagonist, when the identical dosage of the
VEGF antagonist is administered intravitreally, intracamerally, topically, parenterally or orally.
1001781         In one embodiment, the non-surgical methods, needles and/or devices described
herein are used to deliver one of the following VEGF modulators to the suprachoroidal space of
the eye to treat one or more posterior ocular disorders or choroidal maladies described herein:
AL8326, 2C3 antibody, ATO01 antibody, HyBEV,                  bevacizumab (Avastint), ANG3070,
APX003 antibody, APX004 antibody, ponatinib (AP24534), BDM-E, VGX100 antibody
(VGX100 CIRCADIAN),            VGX200 (c-fos induced growth factor monoclonal antibody),
VGX300,     COSMIX,       DLX903/1008      antibody,    ENMD2076,      sunitinib malate    (Sutent@),
INDUS815C. R84 antibody, KDO19, NM3. allogenic mesenchymal precursor cells combined
with an anti-VEGF antagonist (e.g., anti-VEGF antibody), MGCD265, MG516, VEGF-Receptor
kinase inhibitor, MP0260, NT503, anti-DLL4/\VEGF bispecific antibody., PAN90806, Palomid
529, BD0801 antibody, XV615, lucitanib (AL3810, E3810), AMG706 (motesanib diphosphate),
AAW2-sFLT01, soluble Fitl receptor, cediranib (RecentinTll), AV-951, tivozanib (KRN-951),
regorafenib (Stivarga@), volasertib (B16727), CEP11981, KH903, lenvatinib (E7080), lenvatinib
mesylate,   terameprocol      (EM1421).    ranibizumab     (Lucentis@t),  pazopanib     hydrochloride
(VotrientTM),    PF00337210,       PRSO50,    SPOI    (curcumin),    carboxyamidotriazole     orotate,
hydroxychloroquine,      linifanib   (ABT869,     RG3635),     fluocinolone   acetonide   (iluvien@),
ALGIOO,       AGN150998,       DARPin MPOl12,        AMG386,      ponatinib (AP24534),      AVA101,
nintedanib (VargatefTM), BMS690514, KHJ902, golvatinib (E7050), everolimus (Afinitor@),
dovitinib lactate (TKI258, CHIR258), ORA101, ORA102, axitinib (Inlyta@, AG013736),
plitidepsin   (Aplidint),     PTC299,    aflibercept   (Zaltrap@,    Eylea@),   pegaptanib     sodium
(Macugen TM, L.1900015), verteporfin (Visudyne@), bucillamine (Rimatil, Lamin, Brimani,
                                                  60

Lamit, Boomi q), R3 antibody, ATO(1/r84 antibody, troponin (BLS0597), EG3 306, vatalanib
(PTK787),      Bimabl00,   GSK2136773,       Anti-VEGFR     Alterase,    Avila, CEP7055, CLT009,
ESBA903, HuMax-VEGF antibody, GW654652, H MPL010, GEM220,                      1YB676, JNJ 17029259,
TAK593,     XtendVEGF antibody, Nova21012, Nova21013,                CP564959, Smart Anti-VEGF
antibody, AG028262, AG13958,           CVX241, SU14813, PRS055, PG501,               PG545, P11101,
TG100948, ICS283, XL647, enzastaurin              hydrochloride (LY317615),       BC194, quinolines,
COT601M06.1, COT604M06.2, MabionVEGF, SIR-Spheres coupled to anti-VEGF or VEGF-R
antibody, Apatinib (YN968Di), and AL3818. In addition, delivery of a VEGF antagonist using
the microneedle devices and non-surgical methods disclosed herein may be combined with one
or more agents listed herein or with other agents known in the art, either in a single or multiple
formulations.
[00179]          In one embodiment, delivery of a VEGF antagonist to the suprachoroidal space of
the eye of a human subject using the microneedle devices and methods disclosed herein is used
to treat, prevent and/or ameliorate one or more posterior ocular disorder or choroidal malady.
For example, the posterior ocular disorder, in one embodiment, is a disease of the retina. In
another embodiment, the posterior ocular disorder is a disease of the choroid. In yet another
embodiment, the posterior ocular disorder is an optic nerve disease.          In one embodiment, the
posterior ocular disorder or disorder is selected from macular degeneration, age related macular
degeneration, neovascular age-related macular degeneration, subfoveal neovascular age related
macular degeneration, macular edema, macular edema following retinal vein occlusion. macular
edema with retinal vein occlusion (RVO), diabetic macular edema, macular edema secondary to
branch retinal vein occlusion, macular edema secondai        to central retinal vein occlusion, branch
retinal   vein    occlusion, central    retinal   vein  occlusion,    neovasc ularization,   choroidal
neovascularization, subfoveal choroidal neovascularization, visual impairment due to diabetic
macular edema, diabetic retinopathy, dry eye syndrome (inflammation and corneal tissue damage
of dry eye), retinal detachment, retinal disorders, retinitis pigmentosa, retinal vein occlusion,
branch retinal vein occlusion, central retinal vein occlusion, myopia, pathological myopia,
neurodegenerative diseases, ocular neovascularization, eye cancer, uveitis, glaucoma, scleritis,
ocular sarcoidosis, optic neuritis, corneal ulcer, ocular autoimmune disorder, or retinitis.
                                                   61

[00180]          In one embodiment, the methods provided herein to treat a choroidal malady (eg.,
choroidal neovascularization, polyploidal choroidal vasculopathy, central sirrus choroidopathy,
multi-focal choroidopathy) comprise administering to a patient in need thereof, a drug
formulation comprising an effective amount of an anti-inflammatory drug to the suprachoroidal
space of the eye of the patient
[11181]         In one embodiment, the drug delivered to the suprachoroidal space of the eye of a
human patient via the non-surgical posterior ocular disorder or choroidal malady treatment
methods described herein, reduces, inhibits, prevents and/or ameliorates inflammation, i.e., is an
anti-inflammatory drug. In one embodiment, the drug formulation delivered to the SCS of an eye
of a patient in need thereof via the methods described herein comprises an effective amount of an
immunosuppressive agent. For example, in one embodiment, the immunosuppressive agent is a
glucocorticoid, cytokine inhibitor, cytostatic, alkylating agent, anti-metabolite, folic acid
analogue, cytotoxic antibiotic, interferon, opioid, T-cell receptor directed antibody or an IL-2
receptor directed antibody.        In one embodiment, the immunosuppressive agent is an anti
metabolite and the anti-metabolite is a purine analog, pyrimidine analogue, folic acid analogue or
a protein synthesis inhibitor.       In another embodiment, the immunosuppressive agent is an
interleukin-2 inhibitor (e.. basiliximab or daclizumab).           Other innnunosuppressive agents
amenable for use with the methods and formulations described herein include, but are not limited
to cyclophosphamide, nitrosourea, methotrexate, azathioprine, mercaptopurine, fluorouracil,
dactinomycin,      anthracycline,    mitomycin    C,   bleomycin,   mithramycin,   muromonab-CD3,
cyclosporine, tacrolimus, sirolimus or mycophenolate. In one embodiment, the drug formulation
comprises an effective amount mycophenolate.
[001821         In one     embodiment,     the    intraocular  elimination half life    (ti2) of the
immunosuppressive agent administered to the SCS is greater than the intraocular ti2 of the
immunosuppressive agent, when the identical dosage of the immunosuppressive agent is
administered intravitreally,      intracamerally,   topically, parenterally or   orally. In another
embodiment, the mean intraocular maximum concentration (Cia) of the immunosuppressive
agent, when administered to the SCS via the methods described herein, is greater than the
intraocular Cmax of the immunosuppressive              agent,  when the identical dosage of the
immunosuppressive agent is administered intravitreally, intracamerally, topically, parenterally or
                                                    62

orally.   In another embodiment, the mean intraocular area under the curve (AUCo-t) of the
immunosuppressive agent, when administered to the SCS via the methods described herein, is
greater than the intraocular AUCo- of the immunosuppressive agent, when the identical dosage of
the   immunosuppressive      agent  is  administered    intravitreally, intracamerally, topically,
parenterally or orally.
[00183]         In one embodiment, the drug formulation delivered to the SCS of an eye of a
patient in need thereof via the methods described herein comprises an effective amount of
vascular permeability inhibitor.   In one embodiment, the vascular permeability inhibitor is a
vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) antagonist or an angiotensin converting enzyme
(ACE) inhibitor. In a further embodiment, the vascular permeability inhibitor is an angiotensin
converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and the ACE inhibitor is captopril.
[00184]         In one embodiment, the intraocular elimination half life (t/2) of the vascular
permeability inhibitor administered to the SCS is greater than the intraocular  tU2 of the vascular
permeability inhibitor, when the identical dosage of the vascular permeability inhibitor is
administered intravitreally, intracamerally,    topically, parenterally or orally. In another
embodiment, the mean intraocular maximum concentration (Cmax) of the vascular permeability
inhibitor, when administered to the SCS via the methods described herein, is greater than the
intraocular Cmax of the vascular permeability inhibitor, when the identical dosage of the vascular
permeability inhibitor is administered intravitreally, intracamerally, topically, parenterally or
orally.   In another embodiment, the mean intraocular area under the curve (AUCo-t) of the
vascular permeability inhibitor, when administered to the SCS via the methods described herein.,
is greater than the intraocular AUo-t of the vascular permeability inhibitor, when the identical
dosage of the vascular permeability inhibitor is administered intravitreally, intracamerally,
topically, parenterally or orally.
[00185]         In one embodiment, the drug is a steroid or a non-steroid anti-intlammatory drug
(NSAID).     In another embodiment, the anti-inflammatory drug is an antibody or fragment
thereof, an anti-inflamnatory peptide(s) or an anti-inflammatory aptamer(s).          As provided
throughout the specification, the delivery of the anti-inflammatory drug to the suprachoroidal
space results in benefits over administration of the same drug delivered via oral, intravitreal,
                                                63

intracameral, topical and/or a parenteral route of administration.           For example, in one
embodiment, the therapeutic effect of the drug delivered to the suprachoroidal space is greater
than the therapeutic effect of the same drug, delivered at the same dosage, when the drug is
delivered via oral, intravitreal, topical or parenteral route. In one embodiment, the intraocular
elimination half life (tm/) of the anti-inflammatory drug administered to the SCS is greater than
the intraocular t1 5 of the anti-inflammatory drug, when the identical dosage of the anti
inflammatory drug is administered intravitreally, intracamerally, topically, parenterally or orally.
In another embodiment, the mean intraocular maximum concentration (Cmax) of the anti
inflammatory drug, when administered to the SCS via the methods described herein, is greater
than the intraocular Cmax of the anti-inflannatory drug, when administered intravitreally,
intracamerally, topically, parenterally or orally.    In another embodiment, the mean intraocular
area under the curve (AUCo-) of the anti-inflammatory drug., when administered to the SCS via
the methods described herein, is greater than the intraocular AUC0 - of the anti-inflammatory
drug, when the identical dosage of the anti-inflannatory drug is administered intravitreally,
intracamerally, topically, parenterally or orally.
[00186]         Steroidal compounds that can be administered via the methods provided herein
include       hydrocortisone,        hydrocortisone- 17-butyrate,      hydrocortisone- 17 -aceponate,
hydrocortisone- 17-buteprate, cortisone, tixocortol pivalate, prednisolone, methylprednisolone,
prednisone, triamcinolone, triamcinolone acetonide, mometasone, ameinonide, budesonide,
desonide,    fluocinonide,      halcinonide,    bethamethasone.,    bethamethasone      dipropionate,
dexamethasone,      fluocortolone,    hydrocortisone-17-valerate,    halometasone,     alclometasone
dipropionate, prednicarbate, clobetasone-1 7-butyrate, clobetasol-17-propionate,        fluocortolone
caproate, fluocortolone pivalate, fluprednidene acetate and prednicarbate.
[001871         Specific classes of NSAIDs that can be administered via the methods provided
herein include, salicylates, propionic acid derivatives, acetic acid derivatives, enolic acid
derivatives, fenamic acid derivatives and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitors.                In one
embodiment, the methods provided herein are used to deliver one or more of the following
NSAIDs to the SCS of an eye of a patient in need thereof: acetylsalicylic acid, diflunisal,
salsalate,  ibuprofen,     dexibuprofen,    naproxen,   fenoprofen,   keotoprofen,    dexketoprofen,
flurbiprofen, oxaprozin, loxaprofen, indomethacin, tolimetin, sulindac, etodolac, ketorolac,
                                                   64

diclofenac or nabumetone, piroxicam, meloxicam, tenoxicain, droxicam,                lornoxicain or
isoxicain, mefanamic acid, meclofenamic acid, fiufenamic acid, tolfenamic acid, celecoxib,
refecoxib, valdecoxib, parecoxib, liumiracoxib, etoricoxib or firocoxib.
[1)I88]         Other examples of anti-inflammatory drugs, that can be used in the methods
provided herein to treat a posterior ocular disorder or a choroidal malady, choroidal
neovascularization, or subretinal exudation, include, but are not limited to: mycophenolate,
remicase, nepafenac, 19AV agonist(s), 19GJ agonists, 2MD analogs, 4SC1 01, 4SC102, 57-57, 5
H-T2 receptor antagonist, 64G12, A804598, A967079, AAD2004, ABIOIO, AB224050,
abatacept, etaracizumab      (Abegrin'i),    Abevac@), AbGn134,       AbGn168,     Abki,   ABN912,
ABR215062,       ABR224050,      cyclosporine    (Abrammune@f),     docosanol    (behenyl    alcohol,
Abreva@), ABS15, ABS4, ABS6, ABTi22, ABT325, ABT494, ABT874, ABT963, ABXIL8,
ABXRB2, AC430, Accenetra, lysozyme chloride (Acdeam@), ACE772, aceclofenac (Acebloc,
Acebid, Acenac),      acetaminophen,     chlorzoxazone,   serrapeptase,  tizanidine   hydrochloride,
betadex, Aceclogesic Plus, Aceclon, Acecloren, Aceclorism, acecrona, Aceffein, aceinetacin,
asprin (Acenterine), Acetal-SP (Aceclofenac - combination, ibuprofen, Acetyl-G, acetylsalicylate
di-lysine, acetylsalicylic acid, Acicot, Acifine, Acik, Aclocen, Acloflam-P, Aclomore, Aclon, A
CQ, ACS15, actarit, Actemra, Acthelea liofilizado, Actifast, Actimab-B, Actiquim., Actirin,
Actis PLUS., activated leukocyte cell adhesion molecule antibody, Acular X, AD452,
adalimumab, ADAMTS5 inhibitor, ADC1001, Adco-Diclofenac, Adco-Indomethacin, Adco
Meloxicam, Adco-Naproxen, Adco-Piroxicam, Adcort, Adco-Sulindac, adenosine triphosphate
disodium, AdenosineA2a Receptor Agonist, Adimod, Adinos, Adioct, Adiodol, Adipoplus,
adipose derived stem and/or regenerative cells, Adizen, Adpep, Advacan, Advagraf, Advel,
Adwiflam, AEB071, Aental, Afenac, Affen Plus, Afiancen, Afinitor, Aflamin, Aflazacort,
Aflogen, Afloxan, AFM15, AFM16, AFMI7, AFM23, Afpred-Dexa, AFX200, AGO!1,                    Agafen,
aganirsen, AGIi096, Agidex, AGS010, Agudol, A-Hydrocort, AIK I, AI7N457, Airtal, AITI10,
AJM300, ajulemic acid, AK106, AL-24-2Al, AL4-IAl, Ala Cort, Alanz, Albumin immune
globulin,    alclometasone     dipropionate,    ALD518,     aldesleukin,    Aldoderma,     alefacept,
alemtuzumab, AlequelTM, Alergolon, Alergosone, Aletraxon, Alfenac, Algason, Algin vek coat,
Algioflex, Algirex, Algivin Plus, alicaforsen sodium, Alin, Alinia, Aliviodol, Aliviosin, alkaline
phosphatase, ALK S6931, allantoin, Allbupen, Allmol, Allochrysine, allogeneic endothelial cells,
                                                  65

allogeneic mesenchymal precursor cells, allogeneic mesenchymal stem cells, alminoprofen,
alpha 1 antitrypsin, Alpha 7 nicotinic agonists, alpha amylase, alpha chymotrypsin, alpha
fetoprotein, alpha limolenic acid, alpha-]-antitrypsin, a2fpl integrin inhibitors, Alphacort,
Alphafen, alpha-hexidine, alpha-trypsin, Alphintern, Alpinamed mobility omega 3, Alpoxen,
AL-Revi,     Alterase, ALX0061,   ALX0761,    ALXNi007,    ALXN1102,     AM3840, AM3876,
AMAB,      AMAP102,      Amason,   Ambene,   AmbezimG,    amcinonide,   AME133v,     Amecin,
Ameloteks, A-Methapred, Amevive, AM G108, AMG139, AMG162, AMG181, AMG191,
AMG220,      AMG623,      AMG674,    AMG714,     AMG719,     AMG729,     AMG827,     Amidol,
amifampridine phosphate, diclofenac (Emifenac@), Amimethacin, amiprilose hydrochloride,
Amiprofen, Arnmophos, Amoflam, AMP110, Ampikyy, Ampion, ampiroxicam, amtolmetin
guacil, AMX256, AN6415, ANA004, ANA506, Anabu, Anacen, Anaflam, Anaflex ACI,
Anaida, anakinra, Analgen Artritis, Anapan, Anaprox, Anavan, Anax, Anco, andrographis,
Aneol, Anergix, Anervax.RATM (therapeutic peptide vaccine), Anflene, ANG797, Anilixin,
Anmerushin, Annexin 1 peptides, annexin A5, Anodyne, Ansaid, Anspirin, Antarene, anti BST2
antibody, anti C5a MAb, anti ILT7 antibody, anti VLAl antibody, anti-alphal    antibody, anti
CD4 802-2, anti-CD86 monoclonal antibody, anti-chemokine, anti-DC-SIGN., anti-HMGB-1
MAb, anti-IL-i 8 Mab, anti-IL-IR MAb, anti-IL-IR MAb, anti-IL23 BRISTOL, anti-interleukin
1B antibody, anti-LIGHT antibody, anti-MIF antibody, anti-MIF antibody, anti-miRi181a,
antioxidant inflammation modulators, Antiphlamine, AntiRAGE MAb, antithrombin III, Anti
TIRC-7 MAb, Anusol-HC, Anyfen, AP105, AP1089, API189, AP401, AP501,                  apazone,
APD334, Apentac, APG103, Apidone, apilimod mesylate, Apitac, Apitoxin, Apizel, APN
inhibitor, apo-azathioprine, Apo-dexamethasone, ApoE mimetics, ApoFasE, apo-Indomethacin,
apo-mefenamic, apo-methotrexate, apo-nabumetone, Apo-Napro-NA, apo-Naproxen, aponidin,
apo-Phenyibutazone, apo-Piroxicam, apo-Sulin, Apo-Tenoxicam, apo-Tiaprofenic, Apranax,
apremilast, apricoxib, Aprofen, Aprose, Aproxen, APX001        antibody, APX007 antibody,
APY0201, AqvoDex, AQX108,           AQX1125,   AQXI31135,     AQX140, AQX150, AQX200,
AQX356, AQXMN100, AQXMN 106, ARA290, Arava, Arcalyst, Arcoxia, Arechin, Arflur,
ARG098, ARG301, arginine aescin, arginine deiminase (pegylated), ARGX109 antibody,
ARGXI 10, Arheuma, Aristocort, Aristospan, Ark-AP, ARN4026, Arofen, Aroff EZ, Arolef,
Arotal, Arpibru, Arpinune, Arpu Shuangxin, ARQ101,          Arrestin SP, Arrox, ARRY162,
ARRY371797, ARRY614, ARRY872, ART621, Artamin, Arthfree, Artho Tech, Arthrexin,
                                             66

Arthrispray, Arthrote,   aeterna shark cartilage extract (ArthrovasTM, Neoretna T,      PsovascarTm ),
Artifit, Artigo, Artin, Artinor, Artisid, Artoflex, Artren Hipergel, Artridol, Artrilase, Artrocaptin,
Artrodiet, Artrofen, Artropan, Artrosil, Artrosilene, Artrotin, Artrox, Artyflam, Arzerra,
AS604850, AS605858, Asacol, ASA-Grindeks, Asazipam, Aseclo, ASF1096, ASF1096,
ASK8007, ASKPI1240, ASLAN003, Asmo ID, Asonep, ASP015K, ASP2408, ASP2409,
Aspagin, Aspeol, Aspicam, Aspirimex, AST120, astaxanthin,                AstroCort, Aszes, AT002
antibody, AT007, AT008 antibody, AT008 antibody, AT010, ATIO01, atacicept, Ataspin,
Atepadene,    Atgam, ATG-Fresenius,        Athrofen,    ATI003, atiprimod, ATL1222,         ATNi03,
ATN192, ATR107, Atri, Atrmin, Atrosab antibody, ATX3105, AU801, auranofin, Aurobin,
Auropan, Aurothio, aurotioprol, autologous adipose derived regenerative cells, Autonec,
Avandia, AVE9897, AVE9940, Avelox, Avent, AVI3378, Avloquin, A/VP13546, AVIP13748,
AVP28225, AVX002., Axcel Diclofenac, Axcel Papain, Axen., AZ17, AZi75, Azacortid, AZA
DR, Azafrine,      Azamun., Azanin,       Azap, Azapin,     Azapren, Azaprin, Azaram,         Azasan,
azathioprine, AZD0275, AZD0902, AZD2315, AZD5672, AZD6703, AZD7140, AZD8309,
AZD8566, AZD9056, Azet, Azintrel, azithromycin, Az-od, Azofit, Azolid, Azoran, Azulene,
Azulfidine, Azulfin, B! antagonists, Baclonet, BAF312, BAFF Inhibitor, Bages, Baily S.P.,
Baleston, Balsolone, baminercept alfa, bardoxolone methyl, baricitinib, Barotase, Basecam,
basiliximab, Baxmune, Baxo, BAY869766, BB2827, BCX34, BCX4208, Becfine, Beclate-C,
Beclate-N, Beclolab     Q,  beclomethasone dipropionate, Beelorhin, Beemet-CG, Begita, Begti,
belatacept, belimumab, Belosalic, Bermetson, Ben, Benevat, Benexam, Benflogin, Benisan,
Benlysta, Benlysta, benorilate, Benoson, benoxaprofen, Bentol, benzydamine hydrochloride,
Benzymin, Beofenac, Berafen, Berinert, Berlofen, Bertanel, Bestamine, Bestofen, Beta Nicip,
Betacort, Betacorten     G, Betafoam, beta-glucan, Betalar, Beta-M, Betamed, Betamesol,
betamethasone, betamethasone dipropionate, betamethasone sodium, betamethasone sodium
phosphate, betamethasone valerate, Betane, Betanex, Betapanthen, Betapar, Betapred, Betason,
Betasonate, Betasone, Betatrinta, Betaval, Betazon, Betazone, Betesil, Betnecort, Betnesol,
Betnovate, Bextra, BFPCl3, BFPC18, BFPC21, BFPT6864, B(                    1 2, BG9924, B1695500,
B1695501, BIA2, Big-Joint-D, BIIB023 antibody, Bi- ksikarn, Bingo, BioBee, Bio-Cartilage,
Bio-C-Sinkki, Biodexone, Biofenac, Bioreucam, Biosone, Biosporin, BIRB796, Bitnoval, Bitvio,
Bivigam, BKT140,        BKTP46, BL2030, BL3030,            BL4020, BL6040,       BL7060, BLI1300,
blisibimod, Blokium B12, Blokium Gesic, Blokium, BMS066, BMS345541, BMS470539,
                                                  67

BMS561392,       BMS566419,        BMS582949,      BMS587101,      BMS817399,      BMS936557,
BMS945429, BMS-A, BNO06, BN007, BNP166, Bonacort, Bonas, boric marrow stromal cell
antigen 2 antibody, Bonflex, Bonifen, Boorniq, Borbit, Bosong, BR02001, BR3-FC, Bradykinin
BI Receptor Antagonist, Bredinin, Brexecam, Brexin, Brexodin, briakinumab,             Brimani,
briobacept, Bristaflarn, Britten, Broben, brodalurnab, Broen-C, bromelains, Bromelin, Bronax,
Bropain, Brosiral, Bruace, Brufadol, Brufen, Biugel, Brukil, Brusil, BT061, BTI9, BTK kinase
inhibitors, BTT1023 antibody, BTT1507, bucillamine, Bucillate, Buco Reigis, bucolome,
Budenofalk, budesonide, Budex, Bufect, Bufencon, Bukwang Ketoprofen, Bunide, Bunofen,
Busilvex, busulfan, Busulfex, Busulipo, Butartrol, Butarut B12,           Butasona, Butazolidin,
Butesone, Butidiona, BVXiO, BXL628, BYM338, B-Zone, CI esterase inhibitor, C243, c4462,
c5997, C5aQb, c7198, c9101, C9709, c9787, CAB1I,         cadherin II antibody, cacrulomycin A,
CAL263, Calcort, Calmatel, CAM3001,          Camelid Antibodies, Camlox, Camola, Campath,
Camrox., Camtenam, canakinumab, candida albicans antigen, Candin, cannabidiol, CAP1.1,
CAPI.2, CAP2.1., CAP2.2,         CAP3.1,  CAP3.2,    Careram, Carimune,     Cariodent, Cartifix,
CartiJoint, Cartilago, Cartisafe-DN.     Cartishine, Cartivit, Cartril-S,  Carudol, CaspaCIDe,
CaspaCIDe, Casyn, CAT1004, CAT1902, CAT2200, Cataflam., Cathepsin S inhibitor, Catlep,
CB0114, CB2 agonist, CC0478765, CC10004, CC10015., CC1088, CC11050, CC13097,
CC15965, CC16057, CC220, CC292, CC401,              CC5048, CC509, CC7085, CC930, CCRI
antagonist, CCR6 inhibitor, CCR7 antagonist, CCRL2 antagonist, CCX025, CCX354, CCX634,
CD Diclofenac, CD102, CD103 antibody, CD103 antibody, CD137 antibody, CD16 antibody,
CD 18 antibody, CD19 antibody, CDId antibody, CD20 antibody, CD200Fc, CD209 antibody,
CD24, CD3 antibody, CD3O antibody, CD32A antibody, CD32B antibody, CD4 antibody, CD40
ligand, CD44 antibody, CD64 antibody, CDC839, CDC998, CDIM4, CDIM9, CDK9-Inhibitor,
CDP146, CDP323, CDP484, CDP6038, CDP870, CDXII35, CDX301, CE224535, Ceanel,
Cebedex, Cebutid, Ceclonac, Ceex, CEL2000, Celact, Celbexx, Celcox, Celebiox, Celebrex,
Celebrin, Celecox, celecoxib, Celedol, Celestone, Celevex, Celex, CELG4, Cell adhesion
molecule antagonists, CellCept, Cellmune, Celosti, Celoxib, Celprot, Celudex, cenicriviroc
mesylate,   cenplacel-1,  CEP11004,    CEP37247,     CEP37248,   Cephyr,    Ceprofen,  Certican,
certolizumab pegol, Cetofenid, Cetoprofeno, cetylpyridinium chloride, CF101, CF402, C F502,
CG57008, CGEN15001, CGEN15021, CGEN15051, CGEN15091, CGEN25017, CGEN25068,
CGEN40, CGEN54, CGEN768, CGEN855, CG11746, CG1560, CG1676, Cgtx-Peptides,
                                                68

CH11504, (114051, CH4446, chaperonin 10, chemokine C-C motif ligand 2, chemokine C-C
motif ligand 2 antibody, chemokine C-C motif ligand 5 antibody, chemokine C-C motif receptor
2 antibody, chemokine C-C motif receptor 4 antibody, chemokine (-X-C motif ligand 10
antibody, chemokine C-X-C motif ligand 12 aptamer, Chemotaxis Inhibitor, Chilhmetacin,
chitinase 3-like 1, Chlocodemin, Chloquin, chlorhexidine gluconate, chloroquine phosphate,
choline magnesium trisalicylate, chondroitin sulfate, Chondroscart, CHR3 620, CIHR4432,
CHR5154, Chrysalin, Chuanxinlian, Chymapra, Chymotase, chymotrypsin, Chytmutrip, (1202,
(1302,   Cicloderm-C,     Ciclopren,    Cieporal,    Cilamin, Cimzia,   cinchophen,    cinmetacin,
cinnoxicam, Cinoderm, Cinolone-S,         Cinryze, Cipcorlin, cipemastat, Cipol-N, Cipridanol,
Cipzen, Citax F, Citogan, Citoken T, Civamide, CJ042794, CJ14877, c-Kit monoclonal
antibody, cladribine, Clafen, Clanza, Claversal, clazakizumab, Clearoid, Clease, Clevegen,
Clevian, Clidol, Clindac, Clinoril, Cliptol, Clobenate, Clobequad, clobetasol butyrate, clobetasol
propionate, Clodol, clofarabine, Clofen, Clofenal LP1, Clolar, Clonac, Clonganna, clonixin
lysine,  Clotasoce,   Clovacort,    Clovana,   Cloxin,    CLT001,  CLT008,    C-MAF      Inhibitor,
CMPX1023,      Cnac, CNDO201,        CN11493.     CNT0136., CNTO148,       CNTO1959, Cobefen,
CoBenCoDerm, Cobix, Cofenac, Cofenac, COG241, COL179, colchicine, Colchicum Dispert,
Colchimax., Colcibra, Coledes A, Colesol, Colifoam, Colirest, collagen, type V, Comeort,
complement     component     (3b/4b)   receptor    1, Complement    Component    Cis Inhibitors,
complement component C3, complement factor 5a receptor antibody, complement factor 5a
receptor antibody, complement factor D antibody, Condrosulf, Condrotec, Condrothin, conestat
alfa, connective tissue growth factor antibody, Coolpan, Copaxone, Copiron, Cordefla,
Corhydron, Cort S, Cortan, Cortate, Cort-Dome, Cortecetine, Cortef, Corteroid, Corticap,
Corticas, Cortic-DS,    corticotropin, Cortiderm, Cortidex, Cortiflam, Cortinet M, Cortinil,
Cortipyren B, Cortiran, Cortis, Cortisolu, cortisone acetate, Cortival, Cortone acetate, Cortopin,
Cortoral, Cortril, Cortypiren, Cosamine, Cosone, cosyntropin, COT Kinase Inhibitor, Cotilam,
Cotrisone, Cotson, Covox, Cox B, COX-2/5 -LO Inhibitors, Coxeton, Coxflam, Coxicam,
Coxitor, Coxtral, Coxypar, (P195543,      (P412245, CP424174, CP461, (P629933, (P690550,
CP751871, CPSI2364, C-quin, CR039, CR074, CR106, CRA102, CRAC channel inhibitor,
CRACM ion channel inhibitor, Cratisone, CRB15, CRC4273, CRC4342, C-reactive protein 2
methoxyethyl phosphorothioate oligonucleotide, CreaVax-RA, CRH modulators, critic-aid,
Crocam, Crohnsvax, Cromoglycic acid, croiolyn sodium, Cronocorteroid, Cronodicasone,
                                                  69

CRTX803, CRx119, CRx139, CRxI50, CS502, CS670, CS706, CSFIR Kinase Inhibitors,
CSL324, CSL '718, CSL742, CTI 12, CT1501R, CT200, CT2008, CT2009, CT3, CT335, CT340,
CT5357, CT637, CTP05, CTPI 0, CT-PI13, CTP 17, Cuprenil, Cuprimine, Cuprindo, Cupripen,
Curaquin, Cutfen, CWF0808, CW1271, CX1020, CX1030, CX1040, CX5011, Cx611, (x621,
Cx91 1, CXC chemokine receptor 4 antibody, CXCL13 antibodies, CXCR3 antagonists, CXCR4
antagonist, Cyathus 1104 B, Cyclo-2, Cyclocort, cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor, cyclophosphamide,
Cyclorine, Cyclosporin A Prodrug, Cyclosporin analogue A, cyclosporine, Cyrevia, Cyrin
CLARIS, CYTOO7TNFQb, CYT0131LIbQb, CYT015IL17Qb, CYT020TNFQb,                        CYT107,
CYT387, CYT99007, cytokine inhibitors, Cytopan, Cytoreg, CZC24832, D1927, D9421C,
daclizumab, danazol, Danilase, Dantes, Danzen, dapsone, Dase-D, Daypro, Daypro Alta,
Dayrun, Dazen, DB295, DBTP2, D-Cort., DD1, DD3, DE096, DE098, Debio04O6, Debio0512,
Debio0615, Debio0618, Debioi036, Decaderm., Decadrale, Decadron, Decadronal, Decalon,
Decan, Decason, Decdan, Decilone, Declophen, Decopen, Decorex, Decorten., Dedema, Dedron,
Deexa, Defcort, Dc-flam., Deflamat, Deflan. Deflanil, Deflaren, Deflaz, deflazacort, Defnac,
Defnalone, Defnil, Defosalic, Defsure, Defza. Dehydrocortison, Dekort, Delagil, delcasertib,
delmitide, Delphicort, Deltacorsolone prednisolone (Deltacortril), Deltafluorene, Deltasolone,
Deltasone, Deltastab, Deltonin, Demarin, Demisone, Denebola, denilcukin diftitox, denosumab,
Denzo, Depocortin, Depo-medrol, Depornethotrexate, Depopred, Deposet, Depyrin, Derinase,
Dermol, Dermolar, Dermonate, Dermosone, Dersone, Desketo, desonide, desoxycoticosterone
acetate, Deswon, Dexa, Dexabene, Dexacip, Dexacort, dexacortisone, Dexacotisil, dexadic,
dexadrin, Dexadron, Dexafar, Dexahil, Dexalab, Dexalaf, Dexalet, Dexalgen, dexallion,
dexalocal, Dexalone, Dexa-M, Dexamecortin, Dexamed, Dexamedis, dexameral, Dexameta,
dexamethasone, dexamethasone acetate, dexamethasone palmitate, dexamethasone phosphate,
dexamethasone sodium metasulfobenzoate,       dexamethasone sodium phosphate, Dexamine,
Dexapanthen,    Dexa-S,   Dexason,  Dexatab, Dexatopic,     Dexaval,  Dexaven,    Dexazolidin,
Dexazona,    Dexazone,    Dexcor,   Dexibu,   dexibuprofen,   Dexico,    Dexifen,   Deximune,
dexketoprofen, dexketoprofen trometamol, Dexmark, Dexomet, Dexon 1, Dexonalin, Dexonex,
Dexony, Dexoptifen, Dexpin, Dextan-Plus, dextran sulfate, Dezacor, Dfz, diacerein, Diannexin,
Diastone, Dicarol, Dicasone, Dicknol, Diclo, Diclobon, Diclobonse, Diclobonzox, Diclofast,
Diclofen, diclofenac, diclofenac beta-dimethylaminoethanol, diclofenac deanol, diclofenac
diethylamine, diclofenac epolamine, diclofenac potassium, diclofenac resinate, diclofenac
                                             70

sodium, Diclogen AGIO, Diclogen Plus, Diclokim, Diclomed, Diclo-NA, Diclonac, Dicloramin,
Dicloran, Dicloreum, Diclorism, Diclotec, Diclovit, Diclowal, Diclozern, Dico P, Dicofen,
Dicoliv, Dicorsone, Dicron, Dieser, Difena, Diffutab, diflunisal, dilmapimod, Dilora, dimethyl
sulfone, Dinac, D-Indomethacin, Dioxaflex Protect, Dipagesic, Dipenopen, Dipexin, Dipro AS,
Diprobeta, Diprobetasone, Diproklenat, Dipromet, Dipronova, Diprosone, Diprovate, Diproxen,
Disarmin, Diser, Disopain, Dispain, Dispercam, Distarmine, Dizox, DLT303, DLT404, DM1 99,
DM99, DM19523, dnaJPi, DNX02070, DNX04042, DNX2000, DNX4000, docosanol, Docz-6,
Dolamide, Dolaren, Dolchis, Dolex, Dolflarn, Dolfre, Dolgit, Dolmax, Dolmina, Dolo Ketazon,
Dolobest, Dolobid, Doloc, Dolocam, Dolocartigen, Dolofit, Dolokind, Dolomed, Dolonac,
Dolonex, Dolotren, Dolozen, Dolquine, DomOO, Dom0400, DomO8O0, Domet, Dometon,
Dominadol, Dongipap, Donica, Dontisanin, doramapimod, Dorixina Relax, Dormelox, Dorzine
Plus, Doxatar, Doxtran, DP NEC, DP4577, DP50, DP6221., D-Penamine, DPfIV/APN Inhibitors,
DRI Inhibitors, DR4 Inhibitors, DRA161, DRA162, Drenex, DRF4848, DRL15725, Drossadin,
DSP., Duexis, Duo-Decadron, Duoflex, Duonase, DV1079, DV1179, DWJ425, DWP422'
Dymol, DYN15, Dynapar, Dysmen. E5090, E6070., Easy Dayz, Ebetrexat, EB1007, EC0286,
EC0565, EC0746, Ecax, echinacea purpurea extract, EC-Naprosyn, Econac, Ecosprin 300,
Ecosprin 300, Ecridoxan., eculizumab, Edecam., efalizumab, Efcortesol, Effigel, Eflagen, Efridol,
EGFR Antibody, EGS21, eTF5Al siRNA, Ekarzin, elafin, Eldoflam, Elidel, Eliflam, Elisone,
Elmes, Elmetacin, ELND0O,         ELND004, elocalcitol, Elocorn, elsibucol, Emanzen, Emcort,
Emifen, Emifenac, emorfazone,         Empynase,      emricasan, Emitor, Enable,  Enbrel,   Enceid,
EncorStat, Encortolon, Encorton, Endase, Endogesic, Endoxan, Enkorten, Ensera, Entocort,
Enzyian, Epanova, Eparang, Epatec, Epicotil, epidermal growth factor receptor 2 antibody,
epidermal growth factor receptor antibody, Epidixone, Epidron, Epiklin, EPPAI, epratuzumab,
EquiO, Erac, Erazon, ERB041, ERB196, Erdon, EryDex, escherichia coli enterotoxin B subunit,
Escin, E-Selectin Antagonists, Esfenac, ESN603, esonarimod, Esprofen, estetrol, Estopein,
Estrogen Receptor beta agonist, etanercept, etaracizurnab, ETC001, ethanol propolis extract,
ETI511, etiprednol dicloacetate, Etodin, Etodine, Etodol, etodolac, Etody, etofenamate, Etol
Fort, Etolac, Etopin, etoricoxib, Etorix, Etosafe, Etova, Etozox, Etura, Eucob, Eufans, eukaryotic
translation initiation factor 5A oligonucleotide, Eunac, Eurocox, Eurogesic, everolimus,
Evinopon, EVT401, Exaflam, EXEL9953, Exicort, Expen, Extra Feverlet, Extrapan, Extrauma,
Exudase, F16, F991, Falcam, Falcol, Falzy, Farbovil, Farcomethacin, Farnerate, Farnezone,
                                                  71

Farnezone, Farotrin, fas antibody, Fastflam, FasTRACK, Fastum, Fauldmetro, FcgamnmaRIA
antibody, FE301, Febrofen, Febrofid, felbinac, Feldene, Feldex, Feloran, Felxicam, Fenac,
Fenacop, Fenadol, Fenaflan, Fenam ic, Fenaren, Fenaton, Fenbid, fenbufen, Fengshi Gutong,
Fenicort, Fenopine, fenoprofen calcium, Fenopron, Fenris, Fensupp, Fenxicam, fepradinol,
Ferovise, Feverlet, fezakinumab, FG3019, FHT401, FHTCT4, FIDi 14657, figitumumab, Filexi,
filgrastim, Fillase, Final, Findoxin, fingolimod hydrochloride, firategrast, Firdapse, Fisiodar,
Fivasa, FK778, Flacoxto, Fladalgin, Flagon, Flamar, Flamcid, Flamfort, Flamide, Flaminase,
Flamirex Gesic, Flanid, Flanzen, Flaren, Flaren, Flash Act, Flavonoid Anti-inflamratory
Molecule, Flebogamma DIF, Flenac, Flex, Flexafen 400, Flexi, Flexidol, Flexium, Flexon,
Flexono, Flogene., Flogiatrin B12, Flogomin, Flogoral, Flogosan, Flogoter, Flo-Pred, Flosteron,
Flotrip Forte, Flt3 inhibitors, fluasterone, Flucam, Flucinar, fludrocortisone acetate, flufenamate
aluminum, flumethasone, Flumidon, flunixin, fluocinolone, fluocinolone acetonide, fluocinonide,
fluocortolone, Fluonid, fluorometholone, Flur, flurbiprofen, Fiuribec, Flurometholone, Flutal,
fluticasone, fluticasone propionate, Flutizone, Fluzone, FMiO1       antibody, fins-related tyrosine
kinase I antibody., Folitrax, fontolizunab, formic acid, Fortecortin, Fospeg, fostamatinib
disodium, FP1069, FP13XX, FPA008., FPA031, FPT025, FR104. FR167653, Framebin, Frime,
Froben, Frolix, FROUNT Inhibitors, Fubifen PAP, Fucole ibuprofen, Fuliamotol, Fulpen,
Fungifin, Furotalgin, fusidate sodium, FX002, FX141L, FX201, FX300, FX87L, Galectin
modulators, gallium maltolate, Gamimune N, Gammagard, Gamma-IV., GammaQuin, Gamma
Venin, Gamunex, Garzen, Gaspirin, Gattex, GBR500, GBR500 antibody, GBT009, G-CSF,
GED0301, GED04 14, Gefenec, Gelofen, Genepril, Gengraf, Genimune, Geniquin, Genotropin,
Genz29155, Gerbin, Gerbin, gevokizumab, GFO1 564600, Gilenia, Gilenya, givinostat, GL0050,
GL2045, glatiramer acetate, Globulin, Glortho Forte, Glovalox, Glovenin-i, GLPGO259,
GLPG0555, GLPG0634, GLPG0778, GLPG0974, Gluco, Glucocerin, giucosamine, glucosamine
hydrochloride, glucosamine sulfate, Glucotin, Gludex, Glutilage, GLYO79, GLYi45, Glycanic,
Glycefort up, Glygesic, Glysopep,          GMCSF Antibody, GMI1010,          GM11011,     GM11043
GMR321, GN4001, Goanna Salve, Goflex, gold sodium thiomalate, golinumab, GP2013, GPCR
modulator, GPR15 Antagonist, GPR183 antagonist, GPR32 antagonist, GPR83 antagonist, G
protein Coupled Receptor Antagonists, Graceptor, Graftac, granulocyte colony-stimulating factor
antibody, granulocyte-macrophage         colony-stimulating factor antibody, Gravx, GRC4039,
Grelyse, GS101, GS9973, GSC100, GSK1605786, GSK1827771, GSK1i36525, GSK2941266,
                                                  72

GSK315234, GS1K681323, GT146, GT442,             iiucixiaotong, (ufisera, (upisone,   gusperimus
hydrochloride, GW274150, GW3333, (3W406381, GW856553, GWB78, GXPO4, Gynestrel,
 laloart, halopredone acetate, Haloxin, HANALL,          Hanall Soludacortin,   HIavisco, Hawon
Bucillamin, HB802, HC31496, HCQ 200, HD104, HD203, HD205, HDAC inhibitor, HE2500,
HE3177, HE3413, Hecoria, Hectomitacin, Hefasolon, Helen, Helenil, HemaMax, Hematom,
hernatopoietic stein cells, Hematrol, Heinner, Hemril, heparinoid, Heptax, HER2 Antibody,
Herponil, hESC Derived Dendritic Cells, hESC Derived Hernatopoietic stern cells, Hespereorbin,
Hexacorton, Hexadrol, hexetidine, Hexoderm, Hexoderm Salic, HF0220, HF]1020, HFT-401,
hG-CSFR ED Fc, Hiberna, high mobility group box I antibody, Hiloneed, Hinocarn, hirudin,
Hirudoid, Hison, Histamine H4 Receptor Antagonist, Hitenercept, Hizentra, HL036, HLi61,
HNIPLOO1,     HMPL004, HMPLOO4, HNIPLOi1, HMPL342, HMPL692, honey bee venom,
Hongqiang, Hotemin, HPH1 16, HTIl01, HuCAL Antibody, Human adipose mesenchymal stem
cells, anti-MHC class II monoclonal antibody, Human Immunoglobulin, Human Placenta Tissue
Hydrolysate, HuMaxCD4, HuMax-TAC, flumetone., Humicade, Humira, Huons Betamethasone
sodium phosphate, Huons dexamethasone           sodium phosphate,      Huons Piroxicam, Huons
Tainiflumate, Hurofen, Huruma, Huvap, HuZAF, HX02, Hyalogel, hyaluronate sodium,
hyaluronic acid, hyaluronidase., Hyaron, Hycocin, Hycort, Hy-Cortisone, hydrocortisone,
hvdrocortisone acetate, hydrocortisone butyrate, hvydrocortisone hemisuccinate, hydrocortisone
sodium phosphate, hydrocortisone sodium succinate, Hydrocorti stab, Hydrocortone, Hydrolin,
Hydroquine, Hydro-Rx, Hydrosone HIKMA, hydroxychloroquine, hydroxychloroquine sulfate,
Hylase Dessau, HyMEX, flypen, HyQ, Hysonate, HZN602, I.M.75, TAP Inhibitors, Ibalgin,
Ibalgin, Ibex, ibrutinib, IBsolvMIR, Ibu, Ibucon, Ibudolor, Ibufen, Ibuflam, Ibuflex, Ibugesic,
lbu-Hepa, Ibukim, Iburnal, Ibunal, Ibupental, Ibupril, Ibuprof, ibuprofen, Ibuscent, Ibusoft,
Ibusuki Penjeong, Ibususpen, Ibutard, Ibutop, Ibutop, Ibutrex, IC487892, ichtharnmol, ICRAC
Blocker, IDECl31, IDECCE9.1, Ides, Idicin, Idizone, IDN6556, Idomethine, IDRI, Idyl SR,
Ifen, iguratimod, IK6002, IKK-beta inhibitor, IL] 7 Antagonist, IL-I 7 Inhibitor, IL-17R C, IL18,
11ll-1y], ILlRI, IL-23 Adnectin, 1123 Inhibitor, IL23 Receptor Antagonist, IL-31 inAb, IL-6
Inhibitor, IL6Qb, Ilacox, Ilaris, ilodecakin, ILV094, ILV095, Imaxetil, IMD0560. IMD2560,
Irnesel Plus, Iminoral, Immodin, IMMUl103, IMMU106, Imnurcept, Immufine, Irnmunex Syrup,
immunoglobulin,    immunoglobulin (, Immunoprin, ImmunoRel, Immurin, IM08400, IMP731
antibody, Implanta, Imnunocell, Imuran, linurek, Inmusafe, Imusporin, Imutrex, IN0701, Inal,

INCB0391 10, 1NCB18424,          1NCB28050, INCB3284, INCB3344, Indexon, Indic, Indo, Indo-A,
Indobid, Indo-Bros, Indocaf, Indocarsil, Indocid, Indocin, Indomehotpas, Indomen, Indomet,
Indometacin, indoinethacin, Indomethasone, Indometin, Indornin, Indopal, Indoron, Indotroxin,
INDUS830, INDUS83030, Infladase, Infl amac, Inflammasome inhibitor, Inflavis, Inflaxen,
Inflectra, infliximab, Ingalipt, Inicox dp, Inmecin, Inmunoartro, Innamit, InnoDO6006, IN07997,
Inocin, Inoten, Inovan, Inpra, Inside Pap, Insider-P, Instacyl, Instracool, Intafenac, Intaflarn,
Inteban, Inteban Spansule, integrin, alpha I antibody, integrin, alpha 2 antibody, Intenurse,
interferon alfa, interferon beta-la, interferon gamma, interferon gamma antibody, Interking,
interleukin 1 Hyl, interleukin 1 antibody, interleukin 1 receptor antibody, interleukin 1, beta
antibody, interleukin 10, interleukin 10 antibody, interleukin 12, interleukin 12 antibody,
interleukin 13 antibody, interleukin 15 antibody, interleukin 17 antibody, interleukin 17 receptor
C, interleukin 18, interleukin 18 binding protein, interleukin 18 antibody, interleukin 2 receptor,
alpha antibody, interleukin 20 antibody, Interleukin 21 mAb, interleukin 23 aptamer, interleukin
31 antibody, interleukin 34, Interleukin 6 Inhibitor, interleukin 6 antibody, interleukin 6 receptor
antibody, interleukin 7, interleukin 7 receptor antibody, interleukin 8, interleukin 8 antibody.,
interleukin-18 antibody, Intidrol, Intradex, Intragam P, Intragesic, Intraglobin F, Intratect, Inzel,
lomab B, 1OR-T3, IP751, 1PH2201, 1PH2301, 1PH24, 1PH33., IP1145, Ipocort, 1PP201007, I
Profen, Iprox, Ipson, Iputon, IRAK4 Inhibitor, Ireiod, Irtonpyson, IRX3, IRX5183, ISA247,
ISIS104 838, ISIS2302, ISISCRPRx, Ismafron, IsoQC inhibitor, Isox, ITF2357, Iveegarm EN,
Ivepred, IVIG-SN, IWOO1, Izilox, J607Y, J775Y, JAK Inhibitor, JAK3 inhibitor, JAK3 kinase
inhibitor, J13292, JI4135, Jinan Lida, JNJ]0329670, JNJ18003414, JNJ26528398, JNJ27390467,
JNJ2883801 7, JNJ3 1001958, JNJ38 518168, JNJ39758979, JN J40346527,. JNJ7777120, JNT
Plus, Joflam, Joint Glucosamin, Jointec, Jointstem, Joinup, JE1375, JSM10292, JSM7717,
JSM8757, JTE051, JTE052, JTE522, JTE607, Jusgo, K412, K832, Kaflama, KAHR101,
KAHR102, KA19803, Kalymin, Kam Predsol, Kam eton, KANAb071,                Kappaproct, KAR2581,
KAR3000, KAR3166, KAR4000, KAR4139, KAR4141, KBO02, KB003, KD7332, KE298,
keliximab, Keruanat, Kenrox, Kenacort, Kenalog, Kenaxir, Kenketsu Venoglobulin-IH1-, Keplat,
Ketalgipan, Keto Pine, Keto, Ketobos, Ketofan, Ketofen, Ketolgan, Ketonal, Ketoplus Kata
Plasma, ketoprofen, Ketores, Ketorin, ketorolac, ketorolac tromethamine, Ketoselect, Ketotop,
Ketovail, Ketricin, Ketroc, Keturu, Keyi, Keyven, KiF24345, K-Fenac, K-Fenak, K-Gesic,
Kifadene, Kilcort, iKildrol, KIM127, Kimotab, Kinase Inhibitor 4SC, Kinase N, Kincort,
                                                 74

Kindorase, Kineret, Kineto, Kitadol, Kitex, Kitolac, KLKI Inhibitor, Klofen-L, Klotaren, KLS
40or, KLS-40ra, KM277, Knavon, Kodolo orabase, Kohakusanin, Koide, Koidexa, Kolbet,
Konac, Kondro, Kondromin, Konshien, Kontab, Kordexa, Kosa, Kotase, KPE06001, KRP107,
KRP203, KRX211, KRX252, KSB302, K-Sep, Kv 1.3 Blocker, Ky0.3 4SC, Kyi.3 inhibitor,
KVK702, Kynol, L156602, Labizone, Labohydro, Labopen, Lacoxa, Lamin, Lamit, Lanfetil,
laquinimod, larazotide acetate, LAS186323, LAS187247, LAS41002, Laticort, LBEC0101,
LCP3301, LCP-Siro. LCP-Tacro, LCsA, LDP392, Leap-S, Ledercort, Lederfen, Lederlon,
Lederspan, Lefenine, leflunomide, Leflux, Lefno, Lefra, Leftose, Lefumide, Lefunodin, Lefva,
lenalidomide, lenercept, LentiRA, LE015520, Leodase, Leukine, Leukocyte function-associated
antigen-I antagonist, leukocyte immunoglobulin-like receptor, subfamily A, member 4 antibody,
Leukothera. leuprolide acetate, levalbuterol, levomenthol, LFA-1 Antagonist, LFA451, LFA703,
LFA878, LG106, LG267 Inhibitors, LG688 Inhibitors, LGD5552, Li Life, LidaMantle, Lidex,
lidocaine, lidocaine hydrochloride, Lignocaine hydrochloride, LIM0723, LIM5310., Limethason.,
Limus, Limustin, Lindac, Linfonex, Linola acute, Lipey, lisofyline, Listran, Liver X Receptor
modulator, Lizak, LJP1207, LJP920, Lobafen, Lobu., Locafluo, Localyn, Locaseptil-Neo,
Loepren, Lodine, Lodotra, Lofedic, Loflam, Lofnac, Lolcam, Lonac, lonazolac calcium,
Loprofen., Loracort, Lorcam, Lorfenamin, Lorinden Lotio, Lornerat, lornoxicam, Lorox,
losmapimod, loteprednol etabonate, Loteprednol, Lotirac, Low Molecular Ganoderma Lucidum
Polysaccharide, Loxafen, Lox fenine, Loxicam, Loxofen, Loxonal, Loxonin, loxoprofen sodium,
Loxoron, LPI83AI, LP183A2, LP20-4Al, LPCN1019, LT1942, LT1964, LTNSIOl, LTNS103,
LTNS106, LTNS108, LTSI 115, LTZMP001, Lubor, lumiracoxib, Lumitect, LX231 1, LX2931,
LX2932,     LY2127399,     LY2189102,     LY2439821,     LY294002,   LY3009104,    LY309887,
LY333013, lymphocyte activation gene 3 antibody, Lymphoglobuline, Lyser, lysine aspirin,
Lysobact, Lysoflam, Lysozyme hydrochloride, M3000, M834, M923, mAb hG-CSF, MABPI,
macrophage migration inhibitory factor antibody, Maitongna, Majamil prolongatum, major
histocompatibility complex class II DR antibody, major histocompatibility complex class II
antibody, Malidens, Malival, mannan-binding lectin, mannan-binding lectin -associated shrine
protease-2 antibody, MapKap Kinase 2 Inhibitor, maraviroc, Marlex, masitinib, Maso, MASP2
antibody, MAT304, Matrix Metalloprotease Inhibitor, mavrilimumab, Maxiflam, Maxilase,
Maximus, Maxisona, Maxius, Maxpro, Maxrel, Maxsulid, Maxy12, Maxy30, MAXY4,
Maxy735, Maxy/40, Mayfenamic, MB1i1040, MBPY003b, MCAF5352A, McCam, McRofy,

MCS18, MD707, MDAM, MDeort, MDR061 55, MDTOI 2, Mebicarn, Mebuton, ineclofenamate
sodium, Meclophen,      Mecox,    Medacomb,     Medafen,   Medamol,     Medesone, MEDI2070,
MEDL5117,     MEDI541,     MED1552,      MEDI571,   Medicox,     Medifen,   Medisolu,  Medixon,
Mednisol, Medrol., Medrolon,      medroxyprogesterone     acetate,  Mefalgin, mefenamic     acid,
Mefenix, Mefentan, Meflen, Mefnctra forte, Meftagesic-DT, Mcftal., Megakaryocyte Growth and
Development Factor, Megaspas, Megaster, megestrol acetate, Meitc, Meksun, Melbrex, Melcam,
Melcam, Melflam, Melic, Melica, Melix, Melocam, Melocox, Met-One, Meloprol, Melosteral,
Melox, Meloxan, Meloxcam, Meloxic, Meloxicam, Meloxifen, Meloxin, Meloxiv, Melpred,
Melpros, Melurjin, Menamin, Menisone, Menthomketo, Menthoneurin, Mentocin, Mepa,
Mepharen,   meprednisone,      Mepresso,  Mepsolone,   mercaptopurine,      Mervan,   Mesadoron,
mesalamine, Mesasal, Mesatec, Mesenchymal Precursor Cells, mesenchymal stem cell, Mesipol,
Mesren. Mesulan, Mesuilid, Metacin, Metadaxan, Metaflex, Metalcaptase, metalloenzyme
inhibitors, Metapred, Metax, Metaz, Meted, Metedic,         Methacin, Methaderm, Methasone,
Methotrax, methotrexate, methotrexate sodium, Methpred., Methyl prednisolone acetate, methyl
salicylate,  methyl    sulphonyl    methane,    Methylon,    Methylpred,     methylprednisolone,
methylprednisolone    acetate,   methylprednisolone   sodium     succinate,   methylprednisolone
succinate, Methylprednisolone, Methysol, MetindoL Metoart, Metoject, Metolate, Metoral,
Metosyn, Metotab, Metracin, Metrex, metronidazole, Metypred, Mevamox, Mevedal, Mevilox,
Mevin SR, Mexilal, Mexpharm, Mext, Mextran, MF280, M-FasL, MHC class II beta chain
peptide, Micar, Mielofen, Miclofenac, Micofenolato Mofetil, Micosone, Microdase, microRNA
181a-2 oligonucleotide, MIF Inhibitors, MIFQb, MIKA-Ketoprofen. Mikametan, milodistim,
Miltax, Minafen, Minalfen, Minalfene, Minesulin, Minocort, Mioflex, Miolox, Miprofen,
Miridacin, Mirloks, Misoclo, Misofenac, MISTBO3, MISTB04, Mitilor, mizoribine, MK0359,
MK0812, MK0873, MK2 Inhibitors, MK50, MK8457, MK8808, MKC204, MLN0002,
MLN0415, MLN1202, MLN273, MLN3 126, MLN3701, MLN3897, MLNM002, MM093,
MMN7XX, MN8001,       Mobic, Mobicam, Mobicox, Mobifen Plis, Mobilat, Mobitil, Mocox,
Modigraf, Modrasone, Modulin, Mofecept, Mofetyl, i mofezolac sodium, Mofilet, Molace,
molgramostim,   Molslide, Momekin, Momen Gele, Moment 100, Miomesone, Momesun,
MNometamed, mometasone, mometasone furoate, Monimate, monosodium alpha-lurninol, Mopik,
MOR103, MOR104, MOR105, MOR208 antibody, MORAbO22, Moricam, morniflumate,
Mostuolit, Motoral, Movaxin, Mover, Movex, Movix, Movoxican, Mox Forte, Moxen,
                                               76

moxifloxacin hydrochloride, Mozobil, MP, MP0210, MP0270, MP1000, MP1031, MP196,
MP435, MPA, mPGES-1 inhibitor, MPSS, MRX7EAT, MSL, MT203, MT204, mTOR Inhibitor,
MTRXIOilA,      Mucolase,   Multicort, MultiStem,   murarmidase,   inuramidase,  muramidase
hydrochloride,  muromonab-CD3,      Muslax,   Muspinil,   Mutaze,  Muvera,  MX68,   Mycept,
Mycocell, Mycocept, Mycofenolatmofetil Actavis, Mycofet, Mycofit, Mycolate, Mycoldosa,
Mycomiun, Myconol, ncophenolate mofetil, mycophenolate sodium, mycophenolic acid,
Mycotil, myeloid progenitor cells, Myfenax,       Myfetil, Myfortic,  Mygraft, Myochrysine,
Myocrisin, Myprodol, Mysone, nab-Cyclosporine, Nabentac, nabiximols, Nabton, Nabuco,
Nabucox, Nabuflam, Nabumet, nabumetone, Nabuton, Nac Plus, Nacta, Nacton, Nadium,
Naklofen SR, NAL1207, NAL1216, NAL1219, NAL1268, NAL8202, Nalfon, Nalgesin S,
namilumab, Namsafe, nandrolone, Nanocort, Nanogam, Nanosomal Tacrolimus, Napageln.,
Napilac, Naprelan, Napro, N'aprodil, Napronax, N'apropal, Naproson, Naprosyn, Naproval,
Naprox, naproxen, naproxen sodium, Naproxin, Naprozen, Narbon, Narexsin, Naril, Nasida,
natalizumab, Naxdom, Naxen, Naxin, Nazovel NC2300, NDO7, NDC01352, Nebumetone,
NecLipGCSF, Necsulide, Neesunim, Nelsid-S. Neo Clobenate, Neo Swiflox FC, Neocofian,
Neo-Drol, Neo-Eblimon, Neo-Hydro, Neoplanta, Neoporine, NeopreoL Neoprox, Neoral,
Neotrexate. Neozen., Nepra, Nestacort., Neumega, Neupogen, Neuprex, Neurofenac, Neurogesic.,
Neurolab,   Neuroteradol,  Neuroxican,    Neutalin, netrazumab,    Neuzyn,    New  Panazox,
Newfenstop, NewGama, Newmafen, Newmatal, Newsicam, NEXl285, sFcRIIB, Nextomab, NF
kappaB Inhibitor, NF-kB inhibitor, NGD20001, NHP554B, NHP554P, NI0101 antibody,
NI0401, NI0501 antibody, N10701, N1071, N11201 antibody, NIi401, Nicip, Niconas, Nicool,
NiCord, Nicox, Niftumate, Nigaz, Nikam, Nilitis, Ninmace, Nimaid, Nimark-P, Nimaz, Nimcet
Juicy, Nime, Nimed, Nimepast, nimesulide, Nimesulix, Nimesulon, Nimica Plus, Nimikul,
Nimlin, Nimnat., Nimodol, Nimpidase, Nimsaid-S, Nimser, Nimsy-SP, Nimupep, Nimusol,
Nimutal, Nimuwin, Nimvon-S, Nincort., Niofen, Nipan, Nipent, Nise, Nisolone, Nisopred,
Nisoprex, Nisulid, nitazoxanide, Nitcon, nitric oxide, Nizhvisal B, Nizon, NL, N MR-1947,
NN8209, NN8210, NN8226, NN8555, NN8765, NN8828, NNC014100000100, NNC051869,
Noak, Nodevex, Nodia, Nofenac, Noflagma, Noflam, Noflamen, Noflux, Non-antibacterial
Tetracyclines, Nonpiron, Nopain, Normferon, Notpel, Notritis, Novacort, Novagent, Novarin,
Novigesic, NOXA12, NOXD19, Noxen, Noxon, NPII302a-3, NP11342, NPI11387, NPIl390,
NPRCS1, NPRC'S2, NPRCS3, NPRCS4, NPRCS5, NPRCS6, NPS3, NPS4, nPT-ery, NU3450,

nuclear factor NF-kappa-B p65 subunit oligonucleotide, Nucort, Nulojix, Numed-Plus, Nurokind
Ortho, Nusone--I, Nutrikemia, Nuvion, NV07 alpha, NX001, Nyclobate, Nyox, Nysa, Obarcort,
OC002417, 0C2286, ocaratuzumab, OCTSG815, Oedemase, Oedernase-D, of'aturnumab, Ofgyl
0, Ofvista, OHR118, OKi, Okifen, Oksamen, Olai, olokizumab, Orneprose E, Oinacortil,
Ornneed, Omniclor, Omnigel, Orniwel, onercept, O}N04057, ONSi210, ONS1220, Ontac Plus,
Ontak, ONX0914, OPC6535, opebacan, OPN101, OPN201, OPN302, OPN305, OPN401,
oprelvekin, OPT66, Optifer, Optiflur, OptiMIRA, Orabase Hca, Oradexon, Oraflex, OralFenac,
Oralog, Oralpred, Ora-sed, Orasone, orBec, Orbone forte, Orcl, ORE10002, ORE10002,
Orencia, Org214007, Org217993, Org219517, Org223119, Org37663, Org39141, Org48762,
Org48775, Orgadrone, Ormoxen, Orofen Plus, Oromylase Biogaran, Orthal Forte, Ortho Flex,
Orthoclone OKT3, Orthofen, Orthoflam, Orthogesic, Orthoglu, Ortho-II, Orthomac, Ortho-Plus,
Ortinims, Ortofen, Orudis, Oruvail, OS2, Oscart, Osmetone, Ospain, Ossilife, Ostelox, Osteluc,
Osteocerin, osteopontin, Osteral, otelixizumab, Otipax, Ou Ning, OvaSave, OX40 Ligand
Antibody, Oxa, Oxagesic CB, Oxalgin DP, oxaprozin, OXCQ, Oxeno, Oxib MD, Oxibut,
Oxicam, Oxiklorin, Oximal, Oxynal, oxyphenbutazone, Oxyphenbutazone, ozoralizumab, P13
peptide, P1639, P21, P2X7 Antagonists., p38 Alpha Inhibitor, p38 Antagonist, p38 MAP kinase
inhibitor, p38alpha MAP Kinase Inhibitor, P7 peptide, P7170, P979, PA401, PA517., Pabi
dexamethasone, PAC, PAC10649, paclitaxel, Painoxam, Paldon, Palima, pamapimod, Pamatase,
Panafcort, Panafcortelone, Pan ewin, PanGraf, Panimun Bioral, Panniesone, Panodin SR,
Panslay, Panzem, Panzem NCD, PAP1, papain, Papirzin, Pappen K Pap, Paptinim-D,
paquinimod, PAR2 Antagonist, Paracetamol, Paradic, Parafen TAJ, Paramidin, Paranac, Parapar,
Parci, parecoxib, Parixam, Parry-S, Partaject Busulfan, pateclizumab, Paxceed, PBI0032,
PBII101,    PB11308, PB11393, PB11607, PB11737, PBI2856, PBI4419, PB14419, P-Cam,
PCI31523, PC132765, PCI34051, PC145261, PCI45292, PC145308, PD360324, PD360324,
PDA001, PDE4 inhibitor, PDE-IV Inhibitor, PDL241 antibody, PDL252, Pediapred, Pefree,
pegacaristim, Peganix, Peg-Interleukin 12, pegsunercept, Pegsunercept, PEGylated arginine
deiminase, peldesine, pelubiprofen, Penacle, penicillamine, Penostop, Pentalgin, Pentasa,
Pentaud, pentostatin, Peon, Pepdase, Pepser, Peptirase, Pepzen, Pepzol, Percutalgine, Periochip,
Peroxisome Proliferator Activated Receptor gamma modulators, Petizene, PF00344600,
PF04171327, PF04236921, PF04308515, PF05230905, PF05280586, PF251802, PF3475952,
PF3491390,     PF3644022,   PF4629991,    PF4856880,     PF5212367,    PF5230896,    PF547659,
                                              78

PF755616, PF9184, PG27, P0562, PG760564, PG8395, PGE3935199, PGE527667, P15,
P1-797804,    PHA408,    Pharmaniaga    Mefenami c acid,      Pharnaniaga    Meloxicam,   Pheldin,
Phenocept, phenylbutazone, PHY702, P13K delta inhibitor, P13K Garnma/Delta Inhibitor, P13K
Inhibitor, Picalm, pidotimod, piketoprofen, Pilelife, Pilopil, Pilovate, pimecrolimus, Pipethanen,
Piractam, Pirexyl, Pirobet, Piroc, Pirocam, Pirofel, Pirogel, Piromed, Pirosol, Pirox, Piroxen,
Piroxicam, piroxicam betadex, Piroxifar, Piroxil, Piroxim, Pixim, Pixykine, PKC Theta Inhibitor,
PL3100, PL5100 Diclofenac, Placenta Polypeptide, Plaquenil, plerixafor, Plocfen, PLR14,
PLR18, Plutin, PLX3397, PLX5622, PLX647, PLX-BMT, pms-Diclofenac, pms-lbuprofen,
pms-Leflunomide, pins-Meloxicam, pins-Piroxicam, pms-Prednisolone, pms-Sulfasalazine, pms
Tiaprofenic, PMX53, PN0615, PN100, PN951, podofilox, POL6326, Polcortolon, Polyderm,
Polygamy S/D, Polyphlogin, Poncif, Ponstan, Ponstil Forte, Porine-A Neoral, Potaba, potassium
aminobenzoate, Potencort, Povidone, povidone iodine, pralnacasan, Prandin, Prebel, Precodil,
Precortisyl Forte, Precortyl, Predfoam, Predicort, Predicorten, Predilab, Predilone, Predmetil,
Predmix, Predna,      Prednesol, Predni, prednicarbate,     Prednicort,   Prednidib,  Prednifarma,
Prednilasca, prednisolone, Deltacortril    (prednisolone), prednisolone      acetate, prednisolone
sodium phosphate, prednisolone sodium succinate, prednisolone sodium succinate, prednisone,
prednisone acetate, Prednitop, Prednol-L, Prednox, Predone, Predonema, Predsol, Predsolone,
Predsone, Predval, Preflam, Prelon, Prenaxol, Prenolone, Preservex, Preservin, Presol, Preson,
Prexige, Priliximab, Primacort., Primmuno, Primofenac, prinaberel, Privigen, Prixan, Probuxil,
Procarne, Prochymal, Procider-EF, Proctocir, Prodase, Prodel B, Prodent, Prodent Verde,
Proepa, Profecom, Profenac L, Profenid, Profenol, Proflarn, Protlex, Progesic Z, proglumetacin,
proglumetacin maleate, Prograf, Prolase, Prolixan, promethazine hydrochloride, Promostem,
Promune, PronaB, pronase, Pronat, Prongs, Pronison, Prontoflam, Propaderm-L, Propodezas,
Propolisol, Proponol, propyl nicotinate, Prostaloc, Prostapol, Protacin, Protase, Protease
Inhibitors, Protectan, Proteinase Activated Receptor 2 Inhibitor, Protofen, Protrin, Proxalyoc,
Proxidol, Proxigel, Proxil, Proxym, Prozym, PRT062070, PRT2607, PRTX100, PRTX200,
PRX106, PRX167700, Prysolone, PS031291, PS375179, PS386113, PS540446, PS608504,
PS826957, PS873266, Psorid, PT, PT17, PTLl 01, P-Transfer Factor peptides, PTX3, Pulminiq,
Pulsonid, Purazen, Pursin, PVS40200, PXIO1,           PX106491, PX114, PXS2000, PXS2076,
PYM60001, Pyralvex, Pyranin, pyrazinobutazone, Pyrenol, Pyricam, Pyrodex. Pyroxi-Kid,
QAX576, Qianbobiyan, QPI1002, QR440, qT3, Quiacort, Quidofil, R107s, R125224, R1295,
                                               79

R132811, R1487, R1503, R1524, R1628, R333, R348, R548, R7277, R788, rabeximod, Radix
Isatidis, Radofen, Raipeck, Rambazole, Randazirna, Rapacan, Rapamune, Raptiva, Ravax,
Rayos, RDEA119, RDEA436, RDP58, Reactine, Rebif, REC200, Recartix-DN, receptor for
advanced glycation end products antibody, Reclast, Reclofen, recombinant HSA-TIMP-2,
recombinant human alkaline Phosphatase, recombinant Interferon Gamma, Recominant human
alkaline phosphatase, Reconil, Rectagel HC, Recticin, Recto NIenaderm, Rectos, Redipred,
Redolet, Refastin, Regenica, REGN88, Relafen, Relaxib, Relev, Relex, Relifen, Relifex, Relitch,
Rematof, remestemel-1,        Remesulidun,      Remicade@   (infliximab),  Remsima,    Remsima,
Remsima, ReN1869, Renacept, Renfor, Renodapt, Renodapt-S, Renta, Reosan, Repare-AR,
Reparilexin, reparixin, Repertaxin, Repisprin, Resochin, Resol, resolvin El, Resurgil, Re-tin
colloid, Retoz, Reumacap, Reumacon, Reumadolor, Reumador, Reumanisal, Reumazin, Reumel,
Reumotec,    Reuquinol, revamilast, Revascor, Reviroc, Revlimid, Revmoksikam, Rewalk,
Rexalgan, RG2077, RG3421, RG4934 antibody, RG7416, RG7624., Rheila, Rheoma, Rheprox.,
Rheudenolone., Rheufen, Rheugesic,         Rheumacid,   Rheumacort, Rheumatrex, Rheumesser,
Rheumid, Rheumon, Rheumox, Rheuoxib, Rhewlin., Rhucin, RhuDex, Rhulef, Ribox, Ribunal,
Ridaura. rifaximin., rilonacept, rimacalib, Rimase, Rimate, RimatiL Rimesid, risedronate sodium,
Ritamine, Rito, Rituxan, rituximab, RNS60, RO1 138452, Ro313948, R03244794, R05310074,
Rob803, Rocamix, Rocas, Rofeb, rofecoxib, Rofee, Rofewal, Roficip Plus, Rojepen, Rokam,
Rolodiquim, Romacox Fort, Romatim, romazarit, Ronaben, ronacaleret, Ronoxcin, ROR Gamma
T Antagonist, ROR gamma t inverse agonists, Rosecin, rosiglitazone. Rosmarinic acid, Rotan,
Rotec, Rothacin, Roxam, Roxib, Roxicam, Roxopro, Roxygin DT, RP54745, RP178, RPI78M,
RPI78 IN, RPIMN, RQ00000007, RQ00000008, RTA402, R-Tyflam, Rubicalm, Rubifen,
Ruma pap, Rumalef, Rumidol, Rumifen, Runomex, rusalatide acetate, ruxoiitinib, RWJ445380,
RX10001, Rycloser MR, Rydol, SIP Receptor Agonists, SIP Receptor Modulators, SIP]
Agonist, SIP]     receptor agonist, S2474, S3013,       SA237,    SA6541,   Saaz, S-adenosvI-L
methionine-sulfate-p-toluene sulfonate, Sala, Salazidin, Salazine, Salazopyrin, Salcon, Salicam,
salsalate, Sameron,      SAN300,    Sanaven, Sandimmun,     Sandoglobulin,   Sanexon, Sang(.ya,
SAR153191,     SAR302503,      SAR479746, Sarapep, sargramostim,       Sativex, Savantac, Save,
Saxizon, Sazo, SB1578, SB210396, SB217969, SB242235, SB273005, SB281832, SB683698,
SB751689, SBI087,        SC080036,    SCl12267,   SC409, Scaflam, SCD ketoprofen, SCIO323,
SCI0469, SD-15,       SD281,    SDP051    antibody, Sd-rxRNA, secukinumab, Sedase, Sedilax,
                                                 80

Sefdene, Seizyme, SELl13, Seladin, Selecox, selectin P ligand antibody, Glucocorticoid
Receptor Agonist, Selectofen, Selektine, SelKI antibody, Seloxx, SeIspot, Selzen, Selzenta,
Selzentry, semapimod, semapimod hydrochloride, semparatide, Semparatide, Senafen, Sendipen,
Senterlic,    SEP 119249,   Sepdase,    Septirose,   Seractil,   Serafen-P,   Serase,   Seratid  D,
Seratiopeptidase, Serato-M, Seratoma Forte, Serazyme, Serezon, Sero, Serodase, Serpicam,
Serra, serrapeptase, Serratin, Serratiopeptidase, Serrazyme, Servisone, Seven E P, SGIl 252,
SGN30, SGN70, SGX203, shark cartilage extract, Sheril, Shield, Shifazen, Shifazen-Fort,
Shincort, Shincort,    Shiosol, ShK186, Shuanghuangxiaoyan,           SI615,  S1636,   Sigmasporin,
Sigmasporin,     SIM916,   Simpone,   Simulect, Sinacort, Sinalgia, Sinapol,       Sinatrol, Sinsia,
siponimod, Sirolim, sirolimus, Siropan, Sirota, Sirova, sirukumab, Sistal Forte, SKF105685,
SKF105809, SKF106615, SKF86002, Skinalar, Skynim, Skytrip, SLAM family member 7
antibody, Slo-indo, SMIO, SM201 antibody, SM401, SMAD family member 7 oligonucleotide,
SMART Anti-IL-12 Antibody, SMP!14, SNO030908, SN0070131, sodium aurothiomalate,
sodium chondroitin sulfate, sodium deoxyribonucleotide, sodium gualenate, sodium naproxen,
sodium salicylate, Sodixen, Sofeo, Soleton, Solhidrol, Solicam, Soliky, Soliris, Sol-Melcort,
Solomet. Solondo, Solone, Solu-Cort, Solu-Cortef, Solu-Decortin H, Solufen, Solu-Ket,
Solumark, Solu-Medrol, Solupred, Somalgen, somatropin, Sonap, Sone, sonepcizum ab, Sonexa,
Sonim, Sonim P, Soonil, Soral, Sorenil, sotrastaurin acetate, SP-10, SP600125, Spanidin, SP
Cortil, SPD550, Spedace, sperm adhesion molecule               1, Spictol, spleen tyrosine kinase
oligonucleotide, Sporin, S-prin, SPWF1501,       SQ641, SQ922, SR318B, SR9025, SRT2104,
SSR150106, SSR180575, SSS07 antibody, ST1959, STA5326, stabilin I antibody, Stacort,
Stalogesic, stanozolol, Staren, Starmelox, Stedex IND-SWIFT, Stelara, Stemin, Stenirol,
Sterapred, Steriderm S, Sterio, Sterisone, Steron, stichodactyla helianthus peptide, Stickzenol A,
Stiefcortil, Stimulan, STNM0I, Store Operated Calcium Channel (SOCC) Modulator, STP432,
STP900, Stratasin, Stridimmune, Strigraf, SU Medrol, Subreum, Subuton, Succicort, Succimed,
Sulan, Sulcolon, Sulfasalazin Heyl, Sulfasalazin, sulfasalazine, Sulfovit, Sulidac, Sulide,
sulindac, Sulindex, Sulinton, Sulphafine, Sumilu, SUN597, Suprafen, Supretic, Supsidine,
Surgam, Surgamine, Surugamu, Suspen, Suton, Suvenyl, Suwei, SW Dexasone, Syk Family
Kinase Inhibitor, Syni002, Synacran, Synacthen, Synalar C, Synalar, Synavive, Synercort,
Sypresta, T cell cytokine-inducing surface molecule antibody, T cell receptor antibody, T5224,
T5226, TA101, TAI12, TA383, TA5493, tabalumab, Tacedin, Tacgraf, TACIFc5, Tacrobell,
                                                81

Tacrograf, Tacrol, tacrolimus, Tadekinig alpha, Tadolak, TAFA93, Tafirol Artro, Taizen,
TAK603, TAK715, TA1K783, Takfa, Taksta, talarozole, Talfin, Talmain, talmapimod, Talmea,
Talnif, talniflumate, Talos, Talpain, Talumnat, Tamnalgen, Tarnceton, Tamezon, Tandrilax,
tannins, Tannosynt, Tantum, tanzisertib, Tapain-beta, Tapocin, Tarenac, tarenflurbil, Tarimus,
Tarproxen, Tauxib, Tazomust, TBR652, TC5619, T-cell, immune regulator 1, ATPase, H-i
transporting, lysosonal VO subunit A3 antibody, TCKl, T-cort, T-Dexa, Tecelac, Tecon,
teduglutide, Teecort, Tegeline, Tementil, ternoporfin, Tencam, Tendrone, Teneftuse, Tenfly,
tenidap sodium, Tenocam, Tenoflex, Tenoksan, Tenotil, tenoxicam, Tenoxim, Tepadina,
Teracort, Teradol, tetomilast, TG0054, TG1060, TG20, TG20, tgAAC94, Thl/Th2 Cytokine
Synthase Inhibitor, Th-17 cell inhibitors, Thalido, thalidomide, Thalomid, Themisera, Thenil,
Therafectin, Therapyace, thiarabine, Thiazolopyrimidines, thioctic acid, thiotepa, THR090717,
THR0921,      Threenofen,    Thrombate   III,  Thymic     peptide,   Thymodepressin,    Thymogam,
Thymoglobulin, Thymoglobuline, Thymoject thymic peptides, thymomodulin, thymopentin,
thymopolypetides, tiaprofenic acid, tibezonium iodide, Ticoflex, tilmacoxib, Tilur, T-immune,
Timocon, Tiorase, Tissop, TKB662, TLO 11, TLR4 antagonists, TLR8 inhibitor, TM120,'TM400,
TMX302, TNF Alpha inhibitor, TNF alpha-TNF receptor antagonist, TNF antibody, TNF
receptor superfamily antagonists, TNF TWEAK Bi-Specific, TNF-Kinoid, TNFQb, TNFR1
antagonist, TNROOI, TNXI00, TNX224, TNX336, TNX558, tocilizumab, tofacitinib, Tokuhon
happ, TOL101, TOL102, Tolectin, ToleriMab, Tolerostem, Tolindol, toll-like receptor 4
antibody, toll-like receptor antibody, tolmetin sodium, Tongkeeper, Tonmex, Topflame,
Topicort, Topleucon, Topnac, Toppin Ichthamrmol, toralizurnab, Toraren, Torcoxia, Toroxx,
Tory, Toselac, Totaryl, Touch-med, Touchron, Toyok, Toxic apis, Toyolyzom, TP4179, TPCAi,
TPI526, TR 14035, Tradil Fort, Traficet-EN, Tramace, tramadol hydrochloride, tranilast,
Transimune, Transporina., Tratul, Trexall, Triacort, Triakort, Trialon, Triam, triamcinolone,
triamciniolone acetate, triamcinolone acetanide, triamcinolone acetonide acetate, triamcinolone
hexacetonide, Triamcort, Triamsicort, Trianex, Tricin, Tricort, Tricortone, TricOs T, Triderm,
Trilac, Trilisate, Trinocort, Trinolone, Triolex, triptolide, Trisfen, Trivaris, TRK1 70, TRK530,
Trocade, trolamine salicylate, Trolovol, Trosera, Trosera D, Troycort, TRX         antibody, TRX4,
Trymoto, Trymoto-A, TT301, TT302, TT32, TT32, TT33, TT13 14, tumor necrosis factor, tumor
necrosis   factor 2-methoxyethyl     phosphorothioate     oligonucleotide, tumor necrosis factor
antibody, tumor necrosis factor kinoid, tumaor necrosis factor oligonucleotide, tumor necrosis
                                                 82

factor receptor superfamily, member I B antibody, tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily] B
oligonucleotide, tumor necrosis factor superfamily, member 12 antibody, tumor necrosis factor
superfamily, member 4 antibody, tumor protein p53 oligonucleotide, turnour necrosis factor
alpha antibody, TuNEX, TXAl27, TX-RAD, TYK2 inhibitors, Tysabri, ubidecarenone, Ucerase,
ulodesine, Ultiflam, Ultrafastin, Ultrafen, Ultralan, U-Nice-B, Uniplus, Unitrexate, Unizen,
Uphaxicam, UR13870, UR5269, UR67767, Uremol-HC, Urigon, U-Ritis, ustekinumab, V85546,
Valcib, Valcox, valdecoxib, Valdez, Valdixx, Valdy, Valentac, Valoxib, Valtune, Valus AT,
Valz, Valzer, Vamid, Vantal, Vantelin, VAP-1 SSAO Inhibitor, vapaliximab, varespladib
methyl, Varicosin, Varidase, vascular adhesion protein-1 antibody, V1B110, VB120, VB201,
VBY285,     Vectra-P,  vedolizumab,    Vefren,   VEGFR-1     Antibody,   Veldona,   veltuzumab,
Vendexine, Venimmun N, Venoforte, Venoglobulin-IH, Venozel, Veral, Verax, vercirnon, vero
dexamethasone, Vero-Kiadribin, Vetazone, VGX1027, VGX750, Vibex MTX, vidofludimus,
Vifenac,   Vimovo, Vimultisa, Vincort, Vingraf. Vioform-HC., Vioxi, Vioxx, Virobron,
visilizumab, Vivaglobin, Vivalde Plus, Vivian-A, VLST002, VLST003, VLST004, VLSTOO5,
VLST007, Voalla, voclosporin, Vokam, Vokmor, Volmax, Volna-K, Voltadol, Voltagesic,
Voltanase. Voltanec. Voltaren, Voltarile., Voltic, Voren, vorsetuzumab, Votan-SR, VR909,
VRA002, VRP1008, VRS826, VRS826., VTli,               VT214, VT224, VT310, VT346, VT362,
VTX763, Vurdon, VX30 antibody, VX467, VX5, VX509, VX702, VX740, VX745, VX745,
VX850, W5401 1, Walacort, Walix, WC3027, Wilgraf, Winflam, Winmol, Winpred, Winsolve,
Wintogeno, WIP901, Woncox, WSB711 antibody, WSB712 antibody, WSB735, WSB961,
X071NAB, X083NAB, Xantomicin Forte, Xedenol, Xefo, Xefocan, Xenar, Xepol, X-Flam,
Xibra, Xicam, Xicotil, Xifaxan, XL499, XmAb5483, XmAb5485, XmAb5574, XmAb5871,
XOMAO52, Xpress, XProi595, XtendTNF, XToll, Xtra, Xylex-H, Xynofen SR, Yang Shu
IVIG, YHBI4112, YM974, Youfteline, Youfenac, Yuma, Yumerol, Yuroben, YY piroxicam,
ZI04657A, Zacy, Zaltokin, zaltoprofen, Zap70 Inhibitor, Zeepain, Zeloxim Fort, Zema-Pak,
Zempack, Zempred, Zenapax, Zenas, Zenol, Zenos, Zenoxone, Zerax, Zerocam, Zerospasm,
ZFNs, zinc oxide, Zipsor, ziralimumab, Zitis, Zix-S, Zocort, Zodixam, Zoftadex, zoledronic acid,
Zolfin, Zolterol, Zopyrin, Zoralone, ZORprin, Zortress, ZP1848, zucapsaicin, Zunovate,
Zwitlerionic polysaccharides, ZYI400, Zybodies, Zycel, Zyrofen, Zyrogen Inhibitors, Zyser,
Zytrim, and Zywin-Forte.     In addition, the anti-inflammatory drugs, as listed above, may be
combined with one or more agents listed above or herein or with other agents known in the art.
                                                83

[00189]         In one embodiment, the anti-inflammatory drug is non-surgically delivered to the
suprachoroidal space of the eye using the microneedle devices and methods disclosed herein, and
is used to treat, prevent and/or ameliorate a posterior ocular disorder in a human patient in need
thereof.    For example, the posterior ocular disorder or disorder selected from macular
degeneration (e.g., age related macular degeneration, dry age related macular degeneration,
exudative age-related macular degeneration, geographic atrophy associated with age related
macular degeneration,       neovascular (wet) age-related macular degeneration,            neovascular
maculopathy     and age related macular degeneration, occult with no classic                  choroidal
neovascularization (CNV) in age-related macular degeneration, Stargardt's disease, subfoveal
wet age-related macular degeneration, and Vitreomacular Adhesion (VMA) associated with
neovascular age related macular degeneration), macular edema, diabetic macular edema, uveitis,
scleritis, chorioretinal inflammation, chorioretinitis, choroiditis, retinitis, retinochoroiditis, focal
chorioretinal   inflammation, focal     chorioretinitis,   focal  choroiditis,   focal retinitis, focal
retinochoroiditis,    disseminated   chorioretinal    inflammation,     disseminated     chorioretinitis,
disseminated choroiditis, disseminated retinitis, disseminated reinochoroiditis, posterior cyclitis,
Harada's disease., chorioretinal scars (e.g., macula scars of posterior pole, solar retinopathy),
choroidal    degeneration    (e.g., atrophy,  sclerosis),    hereditary  choroidal    dystrophy    (eg.,
choroidermia, choroidal dystrophy, gyrate atrophy), choroidal hemorrhage and rupture, choroidal
detachment,     retinal   detachment,   retinoschisis,    hypersentitive    retinopathy,   retinopathy,
retinopathy of prematurity, epiretinal membrane, peripheral retinal degeneration, hereditary
retinal dystrophy, retinitis pigmentosa, retinal hemorrhage, separation of retinal layers, central
serous retinopathy, glaucoma, ocular hypertension, glaucoma suspect, primary open-angle
glaucoma, primary angle-closure glaucoma, floaters, Leber's hereditary optic neropathy, optic
disc drusen, cinflammatory disorders of the eye, inflammatory lesions in fungal infections,
inflammatory lesions, inflammatory pain, inflammatory skin diseases or disorders, Sjogren's
syndrome, opthalmic for Sjogren's syndrome.
[00190]         In one embodiment, the drug delivered to the suprachoroidal space using the non
surgical methods described herein is an antagonist of a member of the platelet derived growth
factor (PDGF) family, for example, a drug that inhibits, reduces or modulates the signaling
and/or activity of PDGF-receptors (PDGFR). For example, the PDGF antagonist delivered to the
                                                   84

suprachoroidal space for the treatment of one or more posterior ocular disorders or choroidal
maladies, in one embodiment, is an anti-PDGF aptamer, an anti-PDGF antibody or fragment
thereof, an anti-PDGFR antibody or fragment thereof, or a small molecule antagonist. In one
embodiment, the PDGF antagonist is an antagonist of the PDGFRa or PDGFRp.                    In one
embodiment, the PDGF antagonist is the anti-PDGF-p aptamer E10030, sunitinib, axitinib,
sorefenib, imatinib, imatinib mesylate, nintedanib, pazopanib HO, ponatinib , MK-2461,
Dovitinib, pazopanib, crenolanib, PP-121, telatinib, imatinib, KRN 633, CP 673451, TSU-68,
Ki8751, amuvatinib, tivozanib, masitinib, motesanib diphosphate, dovitinib dilactic acid,
linifanib (ABT-869). In one embodiment, the intraocular elimination half life (t 1 2 ) of the PDGF
antagonist administered to the SCS is greater than the intraocular tl   of the PDGF antagonist,
when administered intravitreally, intracamerally, topically, parenterally or orally.     In another
embodiment, the mean intraocular maximum concentration (Cmax) of the PDGF antagonist, when
administered to the SCS via the methods described herein, is greater than the intraocular C.ax of
the PDGF antagonist, when administered intravitreally, intracamerally, topically, parenterally or
orally. In another embodiment, the mean intraocular area under the curve (AUCo0t) of the PDGF
antagonist, when administered to the SCS via the methods described herein, is greater than the
intraocular AUCo-t of the PDGF antagonist, when administered intravitreally, intracamerally,
topically, parenterally or orally.
[001911         In one embodiment, the drug non-surgically delivered to the suprachoroidal space
using devices and methods disclosed herein treats, prevents, and/or ameliorates the posterior
ocular disorder macular degeneration, or a disease or disorder associated with macular
degeneration. In one embodiment, the method described herein is used to treat or ameliorate age
related macular degeneration, dry age related macular degeneration, exudative age-related
macular degeneration, geographic atrophy associated with age related macular degeneration,
neovascular (wet) age-related macular degeneration, neovascular maculopathy and age related
macular degeneration, occult with no classic choroidal neovascularization (CNV) in age-related
macular degeneration, Stargardt's disease, Subfoveal wet age-related macular degeneration or
vitreomacular adhesion (VMA) associated with neovascular age related macular degeneration in
a human patient in need of treatment.
                                              85

[00192]        Examples of drugs that treat, prevent and/or ameliorate macular degeneration that
can be delivered to the suprachoroidal space via the devices and methods described herein
include, but are not limited to: A0003, A36 peptide, AAV2-sFLTOi, ACE041, ACU02,
ACU3223, ACU4429, AdPEDF, aflibercept, AG 13958, aganirsen, AGN150998, AGN745,
AL39324, AL78898A. AL8309B, ALN-VEGOi, alprostadil, AM1101, amyloid beta antibody,
anecortave acetate, Anti-VEGFR-2 Alterase, Aptocine, APX003, ARC1905, ARC1905 with
Lucentis, ATG3, ATP-binding cassette, sub-family A, member 4 gene, AIXSi0, Avastin with
Visudyne, AVT101, AVT2, bertilimumab, bevacizumab with verteporfin, bevasiranib sodium,
bevasiranib sodium; with ranibizumab, brimonidine tartrate, BVA301, canakinumab, Cand5,
Cand5 with Lucentis, CERE140, ciliary neurotrophic factor, CLT009, CNT02476, collagen
monoclonal antibody, complement component 5 aptamer (pegylated), complement component 5
aptamer (pegylated) with ranibizumab, complement component C3, complement factor B
antibody, complement factor D antibody, copper oxide with lutein, vitamin C, vitamin E, and
zinc oxide, dalantercept, DE109, bevacizumab, ranibizumab, triamcinolone, triamcinolone
acetonide, triamcinolone acetonide with verteporfin, dexamethasone, dexamethasone with
ranibizumab and verteporfin, disitertide, DNA damage inducible transcript 4 oligonucleotide,
E10030, E10030 with Lucentis, EC400, eculizumab, EGP, EHT204, embryonic stem cells,
human stem cells, endoglin monoclonal antibody, EphB4 RTK Inhibitor, EphB4 Soluble
Receptor, ESBA1008, ETX6991, Evizon, Eyebar, EyePromise Five, Eyevi, Eylea, F200,
FCFD4514S, fenretinide, fliuocinolone acetonide, fliuocinolone acetonide with ranibizumab, fms
related tyrosine kinase I oligonucleotide, fins-related tyrosine kinase 1 oligonucleotide with
kinase insert domain receptor 169, fosbretabulin tromethamine, Gamunex, GEM220, GS101,
GSK933776, HC31496, Human n-CoDeR, HYB676, IBI-20089 with ranibizumab (Lucentis@),
iCo-008, Iconi, I-Gold, Ilaris, Iluvien, Iluvien with Lucentis, immunoglobulins, integrin
alpha5betal immunoglobulin fragments, Integrin inhibitor, IRIS Lutein, I-Sense Ocushield,
Isonep, isopropyl unoprostone, JPE1375, JSM6427, K-I902, LentiVue, LFG316, LP590,
LP0101GAM, Lucentis, Lucentis with Visudyne, Lutein ekstra, Lutein with myrtillus extract,
Lutein   with   zeaxanthin, M200,    M200     with   Lucentis, Macugen,    MC1101,    MCT355,
mnecamylamnine,   Microplasmin, motexafin lutetium, MPO112,        NADPH oxidase inhibitors,
aeterna shark cartilage extract (Arthrovasrm, NeoretnaTM, PsovascarTM), neurotrophin 4 gene,
Nova 2 1012, Nova21013, NT501, NT503, Nutri-Stulln, ocriplasmin, OcuXan, Oftan Macula,
                                                86

Optrin, ORA102 with bevacizumab (Avastin@X), P144, P17, Palomid 529, PAN90806, Panzem,
Panzem, PARP inhibitors, pazopanib hydrochloride, pegaptanib sodium, PF4523655, PG1 1047,
piribedil, platelet-derived growth factor beta polypeptide aptamer (pegylated), platelet-derived
growth factor beta polypeptide aptamer (pegylated) with ranibizumab, PLG1I,            PMX20005,
PN1X53, POT4, PRS055, PTK787, ranibizumab, ranibizumab with triamcinolone acetonide,
ranibizumabwith verteporfin, ranibizumab with volociximab, RD27, Rescula, Retaane, retinal
pigment epithelial cells, RetinoStat, RG7417, RN6G, RT101, RIU007, SB267268, serpin
peptidase inhibitor, clade F, member I gene, shark cartilage extract, Shefl, SIR1046, SIRi 076,
Sirna027, sirolimus, SMTD004, Snelvit, SOD Mimetics, Soliris, sonepcizumab, squalamine
lactate, ST602, StarGen, T2TrpRS, TA106, talaporfin sodium, Tauroursodeoxycholic acid ,
TG100801,     TKJ , TLCx99, TRC093, TRC 105, Trivastal Retard, TT30, Ursa, ursodiol,
Vangiolux, VAR10200, vascular endothelial growth factor antibody, vascular endothelial growth
factor B, vascular endothelial growth factor kinoid, vascular endothelial growth factor
oligonucleotide, VAST Compounds, vatalanib, VEGF antagonist (e.g., as described herein),
verteporfin,   Visudyne,    Visudyne   with    Lucentis   and   dexamethasone,    Visudyne   with
triamcinolone acetonide, Vivis, volociximab, Votrient, XV615, zeaxanthin, ZFP TF, zinc
monocysteine and Zybrestat.     In one embodiment, one or more of the macular degeneration
treating drugs described above is combined with one or more agents listed above or herein or
with other agents known in the art.
[001931         In one embodiment, the methods and devices provided herein are used to delivery
triamcinolone or triamcinolone acetonide to the suprachoroidal space of an eye of a human
subject in need of treatment of a posterior ocular disorder or choroidal malady. In a further
embodiment, the triamcinolone or triamcinolone acetonide is delivered for the treatment of
sympathetic ophthalmia,    temporal arteritis, uveitis and/or other posterior ocular inflammatory
conditions. In one embodiment, triameinolone or triameinolone acetonide is delivered to the
suprachoroidal space of the eye of a human subject in need of treatment of sympathetic
opthaimia with the methods and devices described herein.                In another    embodiment,
triameinolone or triamcinolone acetonide is delivered to the suprachoroidal space of the eye in a
human subject in need of treatment of temporal arteritis with the methods and devices described
herein. In yet another embodiment, triamcinolone or triamcinolone acetonide is delivered to the
                                                 87

suprachoroidal space of the eye in a human subject in need of treatment of uveitis, with the
methods and devices described herein. In another embodiment, triamcinolone or triamcinolone
acetonide is delivered to the suprachoroidal space of the eye in a human subject in need of
treatment of one or more posterior ocular inflammatory conditions, with the methods and devices
described herein. In another embodiment, triamcinolone or triameinolone acetonide is delivered
via one of the methods described herein.
[00194]         The triamcinolone composition provided herein, in one embodiment, is a
suspension comprising microparticles or nanoparticles of triameinolone or triamcinolone
acetonide. The microparticles, in one embodiment, have a D30 of about 3 pm or less. In a further
embodiment, the D30 is about 2 pum. In another embodiment, the D50 is about 2 pIm or less. In
even another embodiment, the D5 0 is about 1000 nm or less.           The microparticles, in one
embodiment, have a D99 of about 10 gm or less. In another embodiment, the D99 is about 10 pm.
In another embodiment, the D99 is about 10 pum or less, or about 9 pnm or less.
1001951         In one embodiment, triamcinolone is present in the composition at from about I
mg/mL to about 400 mg/mL. In a further embodiment, triamcinolone is present in the
composition at from about 2 mg/mL to about 300 mg/mL. In a further embodiment,
triamcinolone is present in the composition at from about 5 mg/mL to about 200 mg/mL. In a
further embodiment, triamcinolone is present in the composition at from about 10 mg/mL to
about 100 mg/mL. In a further embodiment, triameinolone is present in the composition at from
about 20 mg/mL to about 75 mg/mL. In a further embodiment, triamcinolone is present in the
composition at from about 30 mrg/mL to about 50 mg/mL. In one embodiment, triamcinolone is
present in the composition at about 10, about 20, about 25., about 30., about 35, about 40, about
45, about 50, about 55 about 60, or about 75 mg/mL. In one embodiment, triamcinolone is
present in the composition at about 40 mg/mL.
[001961         In one embodiment, the triamcinolone composition comprises sodium chloride. In
another embodiment, the triameinolone composition comprises carboxymethylcellulose sodium.
1001971         In one embodiment, the triamcinolone composition comprises triamcinolone
microparticles. In a further embodiment, the composition comprises polysorbate 80. In another
embodiment, the triamcinolone composition comprises one or more of CaCl2, MgC 2, sodium
                                                88

acetate and sodium citrate. In one embodiment, the composition comprises polysorbate 80 at a
w/v% of 0.02% or about 0.02%, 0.015% or about 0.015%,
[00198]         In one embodiment, the p1-I of the composition is from about 5.0 to about 8.5. In a
further embodiment, the pH of the composition is from about 5.5 to about 8.0. In a yet further
embodiment, the p11 of the composition os frorn about 6.0 to about 7.5
[11199]         In another aspect, the present invention provides a method for diagnosing a
patient for a choroidal malady.      In one embodiment, the method comprises administering a
choroidal malady diagnostic agent to the SCS of one or both eyes of the patient, visualizing the
diagnostic agent, and making a determination based on the visualization whether the patient has
the choroidal malady. In a further embodiment, the diagnostic agent is delivered to the SCS of
one or both eyes of the patient via one of the microneedles described herein.
[00200]         In one embodiment, a method is provided for diagnosing a patient for a choroidal
malady. The method comprises administering to the SCS of one or both eyes of the patient, an
indocyanine green (ICG) molecule.        The ICC molecule is stimulated by the absorption of
infrared light in the range from about 790 nm to about 805 nm, The ICG molecule allows for
visualization of the choroidal vasculatures.     In one embodimnent, a positive diagnosis of a
choroidal malady is provided when pulsatile polypoidal vessels are visualized in the macula. In
a further embodiment, the choroidal malady is PCV.
[00201]         In one embodiment, as provided above, one or more drugs provided herein are
delivered to the suprachoroidal space of the eye of a patient in need thereof, for the treatment of
one or more posterior ocular disorders or choroidal maladies, using the microneedle devices and
methods disclosed herein treats, prevents, and/or ameliorates fibrosis in the posterior segment of
the eye (e.g. myelofibrosis, fibrosis in diabetic nephropathy, cystic fibrosis, scarring, and skin
fibrosis).
[00202]         In one embodiment, as provided above, one or more drugs provided herein are
delivered to the suprachoroidal space of the eye of a patient in need thereof, for the treatment of
choroidal malady, using the microneedle devices and methods disclosed herein treats, prevents,
and/or ameliorates choroidal dystrophy.
                                                 89

[00203]         In one embodiment, a drug that treats, prevents and/or ameliorates fibrosis is used
in conjunction with the devices and methods described herein and is delivered to the
suprachoroidal space of the eve.    In a further embodiment, the drug is interferon gamma lb
(Actimmune@*)     with pirfenidone, AC UHTR028, AlphaVBeta5,            aminobenzoate potassium,
amyloid P, ANGl 122, ANGI 170, ANG3062, ANG3281, ANG3298, ANG4011, Anti-CTGIF
RNAi, Aplidin, astragalus membranaceus           extract with salvia and schisandra chinensis,
atherosclerotic plaque blocker, Azol, AZX100, BB3, connective tissue growth factor antibody,
CT140, danazol, Esbriet, EXCO01, EXC002, EXC003, EXC004, EXC005, F647, FG3019,
Fibrocorin, Follistatin, FT011,    Galectin-3    inhibitors, GKT137831,     GNICT01,    GMCiT02,
GRMD01, GRMD02, GRN510, Heberon Alfa R, interferon alfa-2b, interferon gamma-lb with
pirfenidone, ITMN520, JKB1 19, JKB121, JKB122, KRX168, LPAI receptor antagonist,
MGN 4220, MIA2, microRNA 29a oligonucleotide, MMI0100, noscapine, PBI4050, PB14419,
PDGFR inhibitor, PF-06473871, PGN0052, Pirespa, Pirfenex, pirfenidone, plitidepsin, PRM151,
Pxi02, PYN17, PYN22 with PYN17, Relivergen, rhPTX2 Fusion Proteins, RXI109, secretin,
STX100. TGF-beta Inhibitor, transforming growth factor, beta receptor 2 oligonucleotide,
VA999260 or XV615. In one embodiment, one or more of the fibrosis treating drugs described
above is combined with one or more agents listed above or herein or with other agents known in
the art.
[002041        In one embodiment, a drug that treats, prevents and/or ameliorates diabetic
macular edema is used in conjunction with the devices and methods described herein and is
delivered to the suprachoroidal space of the eye. In a further embodiment, the drug is AKB9778,
bevasiranib    sodium,     Cand5,   choline     fenofibrate,   Cortiject,  c-raf  2-methoxyethyl
phosphorothioate oligontcleotide, DE109, dexamethasone, DNA damage inducible transcript 4
oligonucleotide, FOV2304, iCo007, K-902, MP0i 12, NCX434, Optina, Ozurdex, PF4523655,
SAR1118, sirolimus, SK0503 or TriLipix.        In one embodiment, one or more of the diabetic
macular edema treating drugs described above is combined with one or more agents listed above
or herein or with other agents known in the art.
[002051        In one embodiment, a drug that treats, prevents and/or ameliorates macular edema
is used in conjunction with the devices and methods described herein and is delivered to the
suprachoroidal space of the eye.      In a further embodiment, the drug is delivered to the
                                                 90

suprachoroidal space of a human subject in need of treatment of a posterior ocular disorder or
choroidal malady via a hollow microneedle.          In one embodiment, the drug is denufosol
tetrasodium, dexamethasone, ecallantide, pegaptanib sodium, ranibizumab or triameinolone. In
addition, the drugs delivered to ocular tissues using the microneedle devices and methods
disclosed herein which treat, prevent, and/or ameliorate macular edema, as listed above, may be
combined with one or more agents listed above or herein or with other agents known in the art.
[00206]         In one embodiment, a drug that treats, prevents and/or ameliorates ocular
hypertension is used in conjunction with the devices and methods described herein and is
delivered to the suprachoroidal space of the eye. In a further embodiment, the drug is 2-MeS
beta gamma-CCI2-ATP,        Aceta Diazol, acetazolamide,       Aristomol, Arteoptic, AZD4017,
Betalmic, betaxolol hydrochloride, Betimol, Betoptic S, Brimodin, Brimonal, brimonidine,
brimonidine tartrate, Brinidin, Calte, carteolol hydrochloride, Cosopt, CSO88, DE092, DE104,
DE111, dorzolamide, dorzolamide hydrochloride, Dorzolamide hydrochloride with Timolol
maleate, Droptimol, Fortinol, Glaumol, Hypadil, Ismotic, isopropyl unoprostone, isosorbide,
Latalux, latanoprost, Latanoprost with Timolol maleate, levobunolol hydrochloride, Lotensin,
Mannigen, mannitol, metipranolol, mifepristone,         Mikelan, Minims Metipranolol,          Mirol,
nipradilol, Nor Tenz, Ocupress, olmesartan, Ophtalol, pilocarpine nitrate, Piobaj, Rescula,
RU486, Rysmon TG, SAD448, Saflutan, Shemol, Taflotan, tafluprost, tafluprost with timolol,
Thiaboot, Timocomod, timolol, Timolol Actavis, timolol hemihydrate, timolol maleate, Travast,
travoprost, Unilat, Xalacom, Xalatan or Zomilol.        In addition, the drugs delivered to the
suprachoroidal space using the microneedle devices and methods disclosed herein which treat,
prevent, and/or ameliorate ocular hypertension, as listed above, may be combined with one or
more agents listed above or herein or with other agents known in the art.
[002071        The drug delivered to the suprachoroidal space via the non-surgical methods
described herein, is present as a drug formulation. The "drug formulation" in one embodiment,
is an aqueous solution or suspension, and comprises an effective amount of the drug.
Accordingly, in some embodiments, the drug formulation is a fluid drug formulation. The "drug
formulation" is a formulation of a drug, which typically includes one or more pharmaceutically
acceptable excipient materials known in the art. The term "excipient" refers to any non-active
ingredient of the formulation intended to facilitate handling, stability, dispersibility, wettability,
                                                91

release kinetics, and/or injection of the drug. In one embodiment, the excipient may include or
consist of water or saline.
[00208]          In one embodiment, the drug formulation (e.g.. fluid drug formulation) includes
microparticles or nanoparticles, either of which includes at least one drug.        Desirably, the
microparticles or nanoparticles provide for the controlled release of drug into the suprachoroidal
space and surrounding posterior ocular tissue.         As used herein, the term "microparticle"
encompasses microspheres, microcapsules, microparticles, and beads, having a number average
diameter of from about I .im to about 100 pm, for example from about I to about 25 in, or
from about 1 pm to about 7 im. "Nanoparticles" are particles having an average diameter of
from about 1 nm to about 1000 nm. The microparticles, in one embodiment, have a D5 o of about
3 ptm or less. In a further embodiment, the D59 is about 2 pm. In another embodiment, the D50 of
the particles in the drug formulation is about 2 gm or less. In another embodiment, the D5 o of the
particles in the drug formulation is about 1000 nm or less.         In one embodiment, the drug
formulation comprises microparticles having a D99 of about 10 pm or less.       The microparticles,
in one embodiment, have a D 50 of about 3 pm or less. In a further embodiment, the D5 9 is about
2 gim. In another embodiment, the D50 of the particles in the drug formulation is about 2 gim or
less. In another embodiment, the Do of the particles in the drug formulation is about 1000 nm or
less. In one embodiment, the drug formulation comprises microparticles having a D           of about
 10 gm  or less. The microparticles, in one embodiment, have a D5 o of about 3 pi or less. In a
further embodiment, the D5 o is about 2 gin. In another embodiment, the D5 0 of the particles in
the drug formulation is about 2  gm  or less. In another embodiment, the D50 of the particles in the
drug formulation is about 100 nm to about 1000 nm. In one embodiment, the drug formulation
comprises microparticles having a D99 of about 1000 nm to about 10 pm. The mnicroparticles, in
one embodiment, have a D50 of about I gm to about 5pmn or less. In another embodiment, the
drug formulation comprises particles having a D99 of about 10 gin. In another embodiment, the
D99 of the particles in the formulation is less than about 10 gim, or less than about 9 pi,   or less
than about 7 gin or less than about 3pmi.         In a further embodiment, the microparticles or
nanoparticles comprise an anti-inflammatory drug.           In a further embodiment, the anti
inflammatory drug is triamcinolone.
                                                  92

[00209]         Microparticles   and nanoparticles may or may not be spherical in shape.
"Microcapsules" and "nanocapsules" are defined as microparticles and nanoparticleshaving an
outer shell surrounding a core of another material. The core can be liquid, gel, solid, gas, or a
combination thereof. In one case, the microcapsule or nanocapsule may be a "microbubble" or
"nanobubble" having an outer shell surrounding a core of gas, wherein the drug is disposed on
the surface of the outer shell, in the outer shell itself, or in the core.     (Microbubbles and
nanobubles may be respond to accoustic vibrations as known in the art for diagnosis or to burst
the microbubble to release its payload at/into a select ocular tissue site.)  "Microspheres" and
"nanospheres" can be solid spheres, can be porous and include a sponge-like or honeycomb
structure formed by pores or voids in a matrix material or shell, or can include multiple discrete
voids in a matrix material or shell. The microparticles or nanoparticles may further include a
matrix material.   The shell or matrix material may be a polymer, amino acid, saccharride, or
other material known in the art of microencapsulation.
1002101         The drug-containing microparticles or nanoparticles may be suspended in an
aqueous or non-aqueous liquid vehicle. The liquid vehicle may be a pharmaceutically acceptable
aqueous solution, and optionally may further include a surfactant.         The microparticles or
nanoparticles of drug themselves may include an excipient material, such as a polymer, a
polysaccharide, a surfactant, etc., which are known in the art to control the kinetics of drug
release from particles.
[002111         In one embodiment, the drug formulation further includes an agent effective to
degrade collagen or GAG fibers in the sclera, which may enhance penetration/release of the drug
into the ocular tissues.   This agent may be, for example, an enzyme, such a hyaluronidase, a
collagenase, or a combination thereof. In a variation of this method, the enzyme is administered
to the ocular tissue in a separate step from-preceding or following-infusion of the drug. The
enzyme and drug are administered at the same site.
[002121         In another embodiment, the drug formulation is one which undergoes a phase
change upon administration. For instance, a liquid drug formulation may be injected through
hollow microneedles into the suprachoroidal space, where it then gels and the drug diffuses out
from the gel for controlled release.
                                                93

[00213]         As described above, the drugs delivered to the suprachoroidal space via the
methods described herein, ie., for the treatment of one or more posterior ocular disorders or
choroidal maladies, can be administered with one or more additional drugs. The one or more
additional drugs, in one embodiment, are present in the same formulation as the first posterior
ocular disorder treating drug or the choroidal malady treating drug. In another embodiment, the
one or more additional drugs are delivered intravitreally, orally, topically or parenterally to the
human subject in need of treatment of the posterior ocular disorder or choroidal malady. In one
embodiment, a VEGF antagonist is delivered to the suprachoroidal space of the eye of a human
subject in need of treatment of a posterior ocular disorder or choroidal malady via one of the
methods disclosed herein, in conjunction with a PDGF antagonist.          The PDGF antagonist is
administered, for example, intravitreally, or to the suprachoroidal space. In another embodiment,
a PDGF antagonist is delivered to the suprachoroidal space of the eye of a human subject via the
methods described herein, in conjunction with a VEGF antagonist. The PDGF antagonist and
VEGF antagonist can be administered in the same formulation or separate formulations.
1002141         In addition to suprachoroidal delivery, the one or more additional drugs delivered
to the human subject can be delivered via intravitreal (IVT) administration (e.g., intravitreal
injection, intravitreal implant or eye drops). Methods of IVT administration are well known in
the art. Examples of drugs that can be administered via IVT include, but are not limited to:
A0003,    A0006,     Acedolone,    AdPEDF,     aflibercept,   AG13958,   aganirsen,  AGN208397,
AKB9778, AL78898A, amyloid P, Angiogenesis Inhibitor Gene Therapy, ARC1905, Aurocort,
bevasiranib sodium, brimonidine, Brimonidine, brimonidine tartrate, bromfenac sodium, Cand5,
CERE140, Ciganclor, CLT001, CLT003, CLT004., CLT005, complement component 5 aptamer
(pegylated), complement factor D antibody, Cortiject, c-raf 2-methoxyethl phosphorotioate
oligonucleotide, cyclosporine, triamcinolone, DE109, denufosol tetrasodium, dexamethasone,
dexamethasone phosphate, disitertide, DNA damage inducible transcript 4 oligonucleotide,
E10030, ecallantide, EG3306, EosO13, ESBA 1008, ESBA 105, Eylea, FCFD4514S, fluocinolone
acetonide, fms-related tyrosine kinase 1 oligonucleotide, fomivirsen sodium. fosbretabulin
tromethamine,     FOV2301,     FOV2501,     ganciclovir,    ganciclovir sodium,   GS101,    GS156,
hyaluronidase, IBI20089, iCo007, Iluvien, INS37217, Isonep, JSM6427, Kalbitor, K-H902,
lerdelimumab, LFG316, Lucentis, M200, Macugen, Makyueido, Microplasmin, MK0140,
                                                  94

MPO1 12, NCX434, neurotrophin 4 gene, OCOX, ocriplasmin, ORA102, Ozurdex, P144, P17,
Palornid 529, pazopanib hydrochloride, pegaptanib sodium, Plasma Kallikrein Inhibitors,
platelet-derived growth factor beta polypeptide aptamer (pegylated), POT4, PRMI 167, PRS055,
QPTIl007, ranibizumab, resveratrol, Retilone, retinal pigment epithelium-specific protein 65kDa
gene, Retisert, rod derived cone viability factor, RPE65 Gene Therapy, RPGR Gene Therapy,
RTP801. Sd-rxRNA, serpin peptidase inhibitor clade F member 1 gene, Sirna027, sirolimus,
sonepcizumab, SRT501, STP3601, TG 100948, Trabio. triamcinolone, triamcinolone acetonide,
Trivaris, tumor necrosis factor antibody, VEGF/rGel-Op, verteporfin, Visudyne, Vitrase,
Vitrasert, Vitravene, Vitreals, volociximab, Votrient, XG102, Xibrom, XV615, and Zybrestat.
Accordingly, the methods of the present invention include administrating via IVT one or more of
the drugs listed above in combination with one or more drugs disclosed herein administered into
the suprachoroidal space using the microneedle device described herein.
                                               95

                                            EXAMPLES
[00215]         The present invention is further illustrated by reference to the following
Examples. However, it should be noted that these Examples, like the embodiments described
above, are illustrative and are not to be construed as restricting the scope of the invention in any
way.
Materials and Methods
[002161         Unless otherwise specified, whole rabbit eyes (Pel-Freez Biologicals, Rogers,
AR), pig eyes (Sioux-Preme Packing, Sioux Center, IA) and human eyes (Georgia Eye Bank,
Atlanta, GA), all with the optic nerve attached, were shipped on ice and stored wet at 4 'C for up
to 3 days.    Prior to use, eves were allowed to come to room temperature and any fat and
conjunctiva were removed to expose the sclera.
[002171         Unless   otherwise    specified,   hollow   microneedles    were   fabricated   from
borosilicate micropipette tubes (Sutter Instrument, Novato, CA), as described previously (J.
Jiang, et al., Pharm. Res. 26:395-403 (2009)).       FIG. 7A shows a comparison of the hollow
microneedle compared to the tip of a 30 gauge hypodermic needle (scale       = 500 ti).   A custom,
pen-like device with a threaded cap was fabricated to position the microneedle and allow precise
adjustment of its length. This device was attached to a mnicropipette holder (MMP-KIT, World
Precision Instruments, Sarasota, FL) with tubing that was connected to a carbon dioxide gas
cylinder for application of infusion pressure. The holder was attached to a mnicromanipulator
(KITE, World Precision Instruments) which was used to control insertion of the mnicroneedle into
the sclera.
[00218]         Carboxylate-modified FluoSpheres@ (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) were injected as
2 wt % solids suspension of 20 nm, 100 nm, 500 nin, and 1000 nmn diameter particles. Tween 80
(Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO) at a final concentration of 0.5 wt %, was added to the
suspension and sonicated prior to use.       Sulforhodamine B (Sigma-Aldrich) was dissolved in
Hanks' balanced salt solution (Mediatech, Manassas, VA) to make a sulforhodmine solution of
 10-4 M. Barium sulfate particles (Fisher Scientific, Waltham, MA) measuring I gin in diameter
                                                  96

were suspended in balanced salt solution (BSS Plus, Alcon, Fort Worth, TX) to form a 1.5 wt %
suspension.
[00219]         A custom acrylic mold, shaped to fit a whole eye, was built to hold the eye steady
and used for all experiments (FIG. 7B). A catheter was inserted through the optic nerve into the
vitreous and connected to a bottle of BSS Plus raised to a height to generate internal eye pressure
(18 or 36 mm Hg). Suction was applied to a channel within the mold to hold the external surface
of the eye steady during microneedle insertion and manipulation. Each microneedle was pre
filled with a desired volume of the material to be injected. The microneedle was placed in the
device holder at a set microneedle length, attached to the micromanipulator and connected to the
constant pressure source. Microneedles were then inserted perpendicular to the sclera tissue 5-7
mm posterior from the limbus. A set pressure was applied to induce infusion. Thirty seconds
were allowed to see if infusion of the solution began. If infusion occurred, the pressure was
stopped immediately upon injection of the specified volume. If visual observation of the injected
material showed localization in the suprachoroidal space, the injection was considered a success.
If infusion had not begun within that timeframe, then the applied pressure was stopped and the
needle was retracted. This was considered an unsuccessful delivery.
1002201         Eyes to be imaged using microscopy were detached from the set-up within
minutes after delivery was completed. The eyes were placed in acetone or isopentane kept on
dry ice or liquid nitrogen, causing the eye to freeze completely within minutes after placement.
The frozen eve was removed from the liquid and portions of the eye were hand cut using a razor
blade for imaging of injected material. Imaging was performed using a stereo microscope using
brightfield and fluorescence optics (model SZX12, Olympus America, Center Valley, PA). The
portions containing the sclera, choroid and retina were placed in Optimal Cutting Temperature
media (Sakura Finetek, Torrance, CA) and frozen under dry ice or liquid nitrogen.            These
samples were cryosectioned       10-30 pm thick (Microm Cryo-Star HM 560MV, Walldorf,
Germany) and imaged by brightfield and fluorescence microscopy (Nikon E600, Melville, NY)
to determine the location of injected material in the eye.    Images were collaged as necessary
using Adobe Photoshop software (Adobe Systems, San Jose, CA).
                                                97

[00221]         Pig eyes used for microcomputed tomography imaging were not frozen after
injection. Instead, pig eyes were injected with a barium sulfate suspension and stabilized in a 30
mm   diameter sample tube and scanned in air using a Scanco gCT40 desktop conebeam system
(Scanco Medical AG, Briittisellen, Switzerland) at 30 gim isotropic voxel size, E       =  55 kVp,
I= 145    A, and integration time = 200 ms. Through a convolution backprojection algorithm
based on techniques from Feldkaip et. al. (J. Opt. Soc. Am. A-Opt. image Sci. Vis. 1:612-619
(1984)), raw data were automatically reconstructed to generate 2D grayscale tomograms. Global
segmentation values (Gauss sigma, (jauss support, and threshold) were chosen for the contrast
enhanced region as well as general eye tissue.       Grayscale tomograms were stacked, and 3D
binarized images were produced by applying the optimal segmentation values (one image for the
entire eye and another for the region injected with contrast agent). These images were overlayed
using Scanco image processing language to demonstrate the relative 3D position of the contrast
enhanced region within the entire eye.
Example 1. Delivery of a model compound to the suprachoroidal space using a hollow
microneedle
1002221         Red-fluorescent sulforhodamine B was used as a model compound and injected
into pig eyes ex vivo using a single hollow microneedle inserted just to the base of the sclera in
order to target the suprachoroidal space. A brightfield microscopic image of the saggital cross
section of an untreated pig eye, shown in FIG. 8A and 8B (Scale bar: 500 Lim), was taken both
before and after injection of 35 pL of sulforhodamine B. The normal ocular tissue (FIG. 8A)
can be distinguished to identify the sclera, choroid, retina, and vitreous humor. After infusion of
the model compound (FIG. 8B), the sulforhodamine solution can be seen just below the sclera
and above the choroid in the suprachoroidal space, confirming that the solution was injected and
spread within the suprachoroidal space from the initial injection site. Volumes up to 35 gL were
able to be injected without leakage, but larger volumes leaked out from openings on the surface
of the eye where vortex veins would be attached in vivo. However, subsequent experiments in
pigs and rabbits in vivo have demonstrated suprachoroidal delivery of up to 100 pL without
leakage through these openings (data not shown).
Example 2. Delivery of particles to the suprachoroidal space using hollow microneedles
                                                 98

[00223]         Particles with diameters of 500 nm          or 1000 un were injected into the
suprachoroidal space of rabbit, pig and human eyes ex vivo and imaged to evaluate the
distribution and localization of the particles just below the sclera. The sclera (1), choroid (2),
and retina (3) were identified in a fluoroscopic image of a cryosection of a pig eye with no
infusion into the suprachoroidal space (FIG. 9A, Scale bar: 500 pim). Fluoroscopic images of
cryosections of a rabbit eye after injection of 500 nm particles were taken in the axial plane and
the images were collaged to form a panoramic view (FIG. 9B, Scale bar: 500 gm). The spread
of the fluorescent particles (which appear as the bright white regions in the images) was
observed along the equator of the eye in a thin sheath just below the sclera. A volume of 15 gL
was injected and, in this particular cross-section taken in the plane of the insertion site, the
injection had spread approximately 20 mm, which corresponds to about 36% of the total
circumference of the eye.
1002241         Fluoroscopic images of cryosections of pig and human eyes were taken in the
saggittal directions so that the images show the anterior of the eye to the right and the posterior
of the eye to the left (FIG. 9C and 91), respectively).          These images show the ability of
microinjected particles (which appear bright white) to spread in the suprachoroidal space both in
the anterior and posterior direction of the eye from the injection site. In these experiments, a
single microneedle delivered 30 pL of a 2 wt % particle suspension into the suprachoroidal space
of both species. Leakage was observed at the vortex vein openings away from the injection site
similar to what was observed with sulforhodamine injections.
[002251         The insets in these images show magnified views of the microneedle insertion
site. In each case, the insertion site within the sclera was filled with particles. In the case of the
pig (FIG. 9C) and human (FIG. 9D), the retina was still attached and visible, and it was clear
that the microneedle had not penetrated to the retina. In the case of the rabbit (FIG. 9B), the
retina separated during the cryosectioning procedure and was not visible.               These results
confirmed that a microneedle was able to target the suprachoroidal space of rabbit, pig, and
human eyes to deliver particles up to 1000 nm in diameter. The results further confirmed that
these particles spread from the injection site circumferentially in all directions within the
suprachoroidal space.
                                                  99

[00226]         Microcomputed tomography (pCT) was utilized to image the circumferential
spread and localization of injected material in the suprachoroidal space in three dimensions using
a noninvasive method. After injecting 35 pL of I gm diameter barium sulfate contrast agent
particles into the suprachoroidal space of a pig eye, cross sectional images showed the particles
distributed as a thin white strip that circled just below the outer edge of the eye, i.e., just below
the sclera (FIG. I0A). This profile is characteristic of suprachoroidal delivery and similar to the
results from fluorescence imaging. The three-dimensional reconstruction of these cross-sectional
images showed the spread of the particles in the posterior segment of the eye (FIG. lOB, Scale
Bar: 5 mm). The particles spread was approximately 5 mm in radius, although asymmetrically
distributed around the injection site, and covered an approximate area of 70 mm2 (which
represents 7% of the surface area of the back of the eye). This further confirmed the ability of
microneedles to spread particles over a significant portion of the posterior segment of the eye by
targeting the suprachoroidal space.
Example 3. Effect of operating parameters on particle delivery to the suprachoroidal space
1002271          Particles of 20, 100, 500, and 1000 nm diameter were injected into pig eyes ex
vivo using a range of different microneedle lengths and infusion pressures to determine the
success rate of suprachoroidal delivery. An attempted injection was considered to be either filly
successful (complete injection of the 25     L particle suspension into the suprachoroidal space) or
fully unsuccessful (an inability to inject at all). No partial injections were observed. The effect
of infusion pressure and microneedle length on the success rate of suprachoroidal delivery of
particles are shown for 20 nm (FIG. 11A), 100 nm (FIG. 11B), 500 nm (FIG. 11C), and 1000
nm (FIG. iD) particles into pig eyes.
1002281         The success rate increased with greater infusion pressure and with greater
microneedle length (ANOVA, p<0.05).          For the 20 nm particles (FIG. 11A), 100% successful
injections were achieved using a pressure of 250 kPa at all microneedle lengths. For 100 nm
particles (FIG. 11B), the effects of pressure similarly plateaued at 250 kPa and 100% success
was achieved at all but the shortest microneedle length (700 gsm). For the larger particles (500
and 1000 nm) (FIG. tIC and 11D, respectively), the effects of pressure generally plateued at
300 kPa and success rate significantly decreased for shorter microneedles. Not wishing to be
                                                   100

bound by any theory, it is believed that short microneedles lengths inject within the sclera, such
that particles must be forced through a portion of the sclera to reach the suprachoroidal space.
Smaller particles (20 and 100 nm) can more easily force through a portion of the sclera to reach
the suprachoroidal space because the spacing of collagen fiber bundles in the sclera is on the
order of 300 nm. Larger particles (500 and 1000 nm), however, have more difficulty crossing
this anatomical barrier, such that infusion pressure becomes a more important parameter and
injection success rate decreases significantly.
[00229]         A statistical comparison of the injection rates of particles of different sizes at
different microneedle lengths was made using ANOVA and is summarized in the following
table. Significance was considered to be a p<0.05 and indicated by an asterisk (*).
     Microneedle                                                500 vs. 1000
                          20 vs. 100 nm     100 vs. 500 nm                       20 vs. 1000 unm
        Length                                                      nm
 700 am                          0.02*            0.02*              0.09              0.02*
  800 pm                         0.37             0.00*              0.10              0.01*
 900 am                          0.18             0.03*              0.18              0.03*
  1000 m                         0.18             0.37               0.21              0.18
[00230]         The statistical analysis showed that at a microneedle length of 700 am, where the
most scleral tissue must be traversed to reach the suprachoroidal space, success rate depended
strongly on particle size.     Using 800 and 900 pn microneedles, particles smaller than the
collagen fiber spacing (20 and 100 nm) behaved similarly and particles larger than the collagen
fiber spacing (500 and 1000 nm) also behaved similarly, but there was a significant difference
between 100 nm and 500 nm particles. The longest microneedles (1000 gm), which probably
reached the base of the sclera, showed no significant dependence on particle size, suggesting that
overcoming the collagen barrier in the selera was no longer needed.
[00231]         Not wishing to be bound by any particular theory, the foregoing further suggested
that particles of 20 and 100 nm can spread within the sclera as well as the suprachoroidal space,
whereas particles of 500 and 1000 nm should localize exclusively in the suprachoroidal space.
The spread of 20 nm particles (FIG. 12A) was compared to the spread of 1000 nm particles
(FIG. 12B) under identical conditions. As expected, the smaller particles exhibited significant
                                                 101

spread in the sclera as well as the suprachoroidal space.      In contrast, the larger particles were
relegated primarily to the suprachoroidal space and were largely excluded from the sclera. This
localization of large particles was consistent with the results shown in FIG. 11.
1002321         Thus, 20 and 100 nm particles were reliably injected using a minimum
microneedle length of 800 pim and a minimum pressure of 250 kPa. To deliver 500 and 1000 nm
particles, a minimum microneedle length of 1000          and a minimum pressure of 250 - 300 kPa
                                                       mun
was required.
Example 4. Effect of intraocular pressure on delivery of particles to the suprachoroidal
space
[00233]         Intraocular Pressure (IOP) is the internal pressure within the eye that keeps the
eye inflated. It provides a back pressure that can counteract the infusion pressure. To evaluate
the effect of intraocular pressure on particle delivery to the suprachoroidal space, 1000 nm
particles were injected at two different levels of IOP, 18 and 36 imrnlg. The effect of infusion
pressure and microneedle length on the success rate of suprachoroidal delivery of 1000 nmn
particles at simulated lOP levels of 18 mnmHg and 36        rgnll  is shown in FIG. 13A and FIG.
13B, respectively.     The delivery success rate generally increased with an increase in IOP.
Notably, at normal lOP, no particles were delivered at the lowest infusion pressure (150 kPa) or
using the shortest microneedles (700 gim) and only the longest microneedles (1000 im) achieved
 100% success rate at the highest infusion pressure (300 kPa) (FIG. 13A). In contrast, at elevated
LOP, particles were sometimes delivered at the lowest infusion pressure and using the shortest
microneedles, and a 100% success rate was achieved using both 900 and 1000 gm microneedles
at the highest infusion pressure (FIG. 13B).
1002341         Not wishing to be bound by any theory, it is believed that the main effect of
elevated IOP1 is to make the sclera surface more firm, reducing tissue surface deflection during
microneedle insertion and thereby increasing the depth of penetration into sclera for a
microneedle of a given length. Although microneedle insertion depth was not measured directly,
these results suggest that microneedle insertion may be more effective at elevated lop because
the microneedles insert deeper into the selera and thereby increase infusion success rate.
                                                 102

Example 5. Delivery of model compound to suprachoroidal space in live animal models
[00235]         The delivery of a fluorescent molecule sodiumn fluorescein) to the suprachoroidal
space was evaluated using rabbits according to approved live animal experimental protocols. A
one dimensional scan of the eye (through line of sight) was taken within the first five minutes
after injection to determine the dispersion of the fluorescent molecule in the eve (FIG. 14). The
y-axis indicates the fluorescent intensity (i.e., the concentration) and the x-axis represents the
position in the eye frorn front (160) to back (0). Thus, the results illustrate that within the first 5
minutes after injection, the fluorescein had already flowed through the suprachoroidal space to
the back of the eye, with some remaining at the initial insertion site.
[00236]          Similar scans were taken to evaluate the rate of clearance of fluorescein from the
suprachoroidal space over time (FIG. 15). The fluorescent intensity was measured in two regions
of the eye (the suprachoroidal space and mid-vitreous region) over time. The results illustrate
that the bulk of the material injected remains in the suprachoroidal space without passing into the
mid-vitreous region and that the material substantially cleared the suprachoroidal space within 24
hours.
Example 6. Delivery of particles to suprachoroidal space in live animal models
[00237]          Live animal experiments also were conducted to evaluate the delivery of particles
to the suprachoroidal space. Fluorescent particles having a diameter of 20 nm and 500 nm were
infused into rabbit eyes and the fluorescent intensity was evaluated to determine the length of
time the particles remained in two regions of the eye (the suprachoroidal space and mid-vitreous
region).
[00238]         The smaller particles (FIG. 16) were successfully delivered to the suprachoroidal
space and remained in the suprachoroidal space for at least 35 days. The larger particles (FIG.
17) also were successfully delivered to the suprachoroidal space and remained in the
suprachoroidal space for at least 24 days. Notably, both the smaller and larger particles were
well localized as indicated by the low level of fluorescence in the mid-vitreous region.
Example 7. Triameinolone formulations for delivery to the suprachoroidal space
                                                 103

[002391              Triameinolone is delivered to the suprachoroidal space using the methods and
devices provided herein. The triameinolone fornmulation, in one embodiment, is selected from
one of the following three formulations.
          Ingredient         Formulation A Formulation B        Formulation C      Formulation D     Formulation E
        Triamoinolone           40 mg/mL       40 mg/mL           40 rngirnL         40 mg/mL           40 mg/mL
           acetonide            -0mm
                                 so: *~2 pm    Dso: -2 pm         Ds-2 ~2 pm         Doo: -2 pm        D5o: -2 pm
         Particle Size
                               D99: <10 pm    Dog: <10 pm        Do: <10 prn        D: <10 pm         D: <10 pm
      Sodium Chloride           0.64% w/v      0.64% wiv          0.64% wiv          0.64% wiv          0.64% wiv
    Carboxymethycellulo          0.5% wiv       0.5% w/v           0.5% wv            0.5% w/v            5%wiv
          se sodium
       Polysorbate 80           0.02% wiv     0.015% w/V          0.015% wiv        0.015% w/V          0.02% wiv
          NaOlH.               Adjust to pH   Adjust to pH     Adjust to pH 6.0 - Adjust to pH 6.0 - Adjust to pH 6.0
                                 60 - 7.5       60 - 7.5               7.5                75               -7.5
              KC1              0.075% wiv     0.075% wiv                   1
                                                                  0.075% V'V        0.075% wv          0.075% w/v
      CaCl2 (dihydrate)        0.048% wiv     0.048% wv           0.048% w/v        0.048% wv          0.048% wiv
    Mg Cl2 (hexahydrate)       0.030% wiv     0.030% w/V          0.030% w/v        0.030% wv          0.030% wiv
       Sodi        estate       0.39% wlv      0.39% wiv          0.39% wiv          0.39% wiv          0.39% wiv
        Sodium citrate          0.17% w/v      0.17% w/v          0.17% w/v          0.17% wiv          0.17% w/v
          (dihydrate
Example 8. Comparison of the total amount of triameinolone acetonide delivered via
suprachoroidal or intravitreal administration
[002401              In this study, the total amount of triamcinolone acetonide (TA) delivered into live
pigmented rabbit eyes when injected into the suprachoroidal space using a hollow microneedle
or into the vitreous using a standard 30 gauge needle was compared.
[002411              On Day 0, pigmented rabbits were injected with either intravitreal or bilateral
suprachoroidal injections of 2mg/100 pl TA Triesence@> (TA; Alcon Labs).                                    Intravitreal
injections were performed using a 30 g needle (Becton-Dickinson) and suprachoroidal injections
were performed using a 33g 750 gm microneedle.                      The residual amount of TA present in the
syringe/needle assembly after injection was determined by RP-HPLC. Clinical observations, slit
lamp bionicroscopy with McDonald-Shadduck scoring, intraocular pressure assessment (TOP),
electroretinography (ERG), and systemic exposure were assessed up to 120 days post-dose.
                                                           104

Animals were sacrificed at 30 minutes, 7 days, 30 days, 60 days, and 120 days for macroscopic
observations, ocular toxicokinetics, and ocular histopathology.
[00242]          As demonstrated in FIG. 19A, the TA was retained longer in the eve after
administration to the SCS than after intravitreal administration. On average, the            tp;2 of
intravitreally administered drug was 13.3 days, while the drug delivered to the SCS had a t1 o of
39.8 days.
[00243]           Furthermore, the drug that was delivered to the SCS was targeted to the back of
the eye, i.e., the posterior segment of the eye. FIG. 19B shows that a higher concentration of TA
found in the choroid and retina when the drug was administered to the SCS. SCS administration
not only directed the drug to the posterior portion of the eve, but also limited the amount of drug
found in anterior portions, such as the lens, and in the vitreous fluid.       When the drug was
administered intravitreally, the opposite was observed: the highest concentrations of the drug
were found in the vitreous, with lower doses being found in the choroid and retina. Higher TA
concentrations in the anterior of the eye after intravitreal administration are also shown in FG.
19C. This figures shows that the ratio of TA administered intravitreally was approximately 1:1
for both Lens:Chroroid and Lens:Retina while the ratio for SCS delivered TA was much lower.
1002441          These data show that administration of TA to the SCS instead of intravitreally
results a longer half-life of the TA in the eye, and better targeting of the TA to the back of they
eye. The administration of TA to the SCS using a microneedle also shows a favorable safety
profile with no marked inflammation, edema, apoptosis, or necrosis at any time point. Finally,
administration of Triesence@ into the suprachoroidal space using a microneedle delivered
approximately the same total dose of TA as a standard intravitreal injection in this model.
Example 9. Suprachoroidal microinjection of triameinolone aetonide in the New Zealand
white rabbit
[00245]          In this study, the ocular tolerability and toxicokinetics of suprachoroidal
administration of triamncinolone acetonide (TA) using a microneedle in a GIiLP study in the New
Zealand White rabbit.
                                                 105

[002461            On Day 0, New Zealand White (NZW) rabbits were administered a single
bilateral suprachoroidal injection of vehicle, 3 .2 ng (80 pL) or 5.2 ng (130                                  L)    of TA
(Triesence", Alcon labs) using a 33g 750 grn microneedle.                          Clinical observations, slit lamp
biomicroscopy with McDonald- Shadduck scoring, intraocular pressure assessment (IOP),
electroretinography (ERG), and systemic exposure were assessed up to 26 weeks post-dose.
Animals were sacrificed on Day 1, Week 13, and Week 26 for macroscopic observations, ocular
toxicokinetics, and ocular histopathology. Results of ophthalmic examinations at 13 weeks post
administration are provided in Table 1, below.                            Findings absorbed during slit lamp
biomicroscopy and ftndus examination were generally mild and transient in nature, and
demonstrated excellent ocular tolerability for up to 13 weeks following suprachoroidal
administration. Results of electroretinography experiments are provided in Table 2. There was
no administration or TA-related effect on a-wave or b-wave implicit time or amplitude as
assessed by scotopic ERG.
        Table 1. Results of ophthalmic examinations
        Dose level (mg TA/Cye)                                0                    3.2                    5.2
                     Number  of Animals               M: 15 1F15            M:25       F:15        M:25        F: 15
        Conjunctival congestion (slight, transient)                 1
                                                                    t-                   2           1
        Conijunctival dischaxge (slight, transient)                                      2                        1
        Conical Staining (slight, transient)            2           1         1           1          4
        Hyperemia (severe, transient)
        Lens Defect*                                    1           1                    1
        * Anatomic defect unrelated to admitistratior
Table 2 Electroretinography results
                                                                                     Scolopic
  Dose                                                 ------------------
  level       Time         # of                                  OdB wave A                        OdB wave B
                                          Protocol
   (ng        point        eyes                                 Right & left eye                  Right & left eye
TA/eye)
                                                             Mean              SD              Mean              SD
                                         Time (mns)           11,7             0.7              425              8.7
            Baseline        60                  ----   --          ---         -----     ---------
                                      Amplitude (V)         -126.4            27.1             273.7            68.6
    0                                    Time (Ms)            11.7             0.9              42.4             8.2
              Day1          60
                                   I Amplitude (pV)          -1 21            25.8             255.2             57
            Week 13         20           Tine (is)            11.7             0.6              41.9             8.2
                                                          106

                                    Amplitude ( V)                -101.1            11               248.1             60.2
                                         Time (ms)                  11.6            0.8               42.1              8.5
            Baseline       60
                                     Amplitude (pV)               -133.2           24.5              285.8             59.5
                                         Time (mos)                 11.4            0.8               47.5              6.7
   3.2       Day 1         60       ----              ---    --          ---  --         ---           -----    ----
                                    Aiplitude (pV)                 -132            22.2              276.5             58.7
                                         Time (is)                  11.7            0.6               51.1
            Week 13        20
                                  SAnpitude        (pV)           -132,6           17.2              299.8             72.8
                                         Time (imis)                11.7            0.6               423               8.7
            Baseline       60                    ----        --          ---        -----      ---------
                                    Amplitude (NV)                -137.3           22.1              286.4             60.5
                                         Time (ms)                  11.4            0.7               43.1              8.4
   5.2       Day 1         60
                                  I Amplitude (pV)                -130.8           21.2              265.7             48.2
                                         Time (ns)                  12.6            3.3               45.7              8.6
            Week 13        20      ------------------------------------------
                                    Amplitude (pV)                -117.1           44.5              264.6             90.1
[00247]           There were no adverse effects related to test article, dose or method of
administration on clinical observations, body weight, or ophthalmic examinations. No effect on
IOP was noted in any animal (FIG. 20A).
1002481           Inflammatory cells and test article were observed in the suprachoroidal space of
TA-treated animals on Day I but not Week 13 as assessed by histopathology. Additionally., TA
was easily visualized within the suprachoroidal space on day I and no adverse effects related to
the method of administration or treatments, as assessed by histopathology (FIG. 20B. Table 3).
Table 3. Histopathology results
 Time             Dose level (mg TA/eye)                           0                    3.2                   5.2
 pomt   |                  animals                            :15      F:15      M:25        F:15        M:25       F: 15
          Conjunctival subepithelial
           milammatory cells
          Comeal epitielial thinning                         2            1       3            2            3         1
          Ciliary process edema                              5           4        4                         4         5
 D ay 1
          Dilated choroidal vessels
          Inflannatory cells in SCS                                               5            4            5         5
          IA in SCS                                                                            5            4         5
          Small area of retinal damage*                                   1                                           1
                                                                107

         * Conjunctival subepithelial
            nflammalory cells
           Corneal epithelial thinning
           Ciliary process edema                     3      3                1                   3
 W eek -------
   13      Dilated choroidal vessels
           LIflatimaory  cel's in SCS
                                      ---------------------------------
                                                         t----------------------------
                                                                         ------------------- -------
           TA in SCS
           Small area of retinal damage*                                     1
*attributed to needle insertion
[00249]            Plasma and ocular matrixes (aqueous humor (AH), lens, iris/ciliary body (ICB),
vitreous humor (VH), sclera/choroid (SC), and retina) were sampled on Days 1, 14, 28, and 60.
Plasma (LLOQ 0.5 ng/mL) and ocular matrixes (LLOQ 2              - 15 ng/mL) were analyzed using LC
MS/MS, and resulting data were assessed for noncompartmental PK parameters. Systemic
exposure to TA was minimal (FIG. 20C).
[00250]            There were no observed adverse effects related to treatment.             TA in plasma
peaked on Day 1 around 12 ng/mL in both the high and low TA dose groups. Following SCS
TA, TA was observed (in decreasing order) in SC>retina > ICB >VH >lens>AH.                           TA was
observed at high concentrations in the sclera/choroid and retina, to a lesser extent in the
iris/ciliary body, and was present only at low concentrations in the aqueous humor, lens, and
vitreous (FIG. 20D). Specifically, sclera/choroid tissue concentration of TA can be achieved at
greater than 100 gg/g tissue for longer than 28 days after a single dose. The majority of the dose
delivered is retained in the posterior ocular tissue with very little drug delivered to the anterior
tissues. The levels of TA in the sclera/choroid were 6 orders of magnitude different from the
levels found in the vitreous.           This is the opposite of what one would expect to find after
administration of the agent intravitreally.         The concentration of TA observed in the posterior
portion of the eye provide efficacy in animal models of posterior inflammation even though there
is very little drug concentration in the vitreous.
[002511            Furthermore, the amount of TA retained in the sclera/choroid and the retina
delivered to the SCS did not significantly differ depending on the dose. Comparison of the mass
of TA (gg) found in the sciera/choroid over time showed that, by day 30 the amount of TA
                                                       108

retained in the sclera/choroid of animals treated with the high dose of TA and those treated with
the low dose of TA did not significantly differ (FIG. 20E). The amount of TA retained in the
retina did not significantly differ by day 15 (FIG. 20F).
1002521           These data suggest that suprachoroidal drug delivery is well tolerated, results in
distribution of TA to the sclera/choroid and retina, structures that are important targets for anti
inflammatory agents in posterior segment disease, and limits TA exposure in the anterior
segment.
Example       10. Suprachoroidal microinjection              delivers TA to therapeutically-relevant
posterior ocular structures and limits exposure in the anterior segment
[00253]           In this study, the ocular and systemic pharmacokinetics (PK) of triamcinolone
acetonide (TA) in the New Zealand White rabbit following intravitreal (IVT) injection or
administration into the suprachoroidal space (SCS) using a hollow rnicroneedle were evaluated.
[002541           On Day 0, male rabbits (5 per group) received a single bilateral administration of
4 mg TA (100 pL Triesence * triamcinolone formulation, Alcon Labs) via SCS injection using a
33g 750 gin microneedle or an IVT injection using a standard 30g needle. The study design is
shown below in Table 4.
 Table 4. Study design.
                                Dose administration                          Schedule
Group
          animals     Dose level     Route       Dose volume   Day of dosing        Euthanasia
    1         5         4 mg TA       SCS           100 pL           0         day 1, 14, 28, 56 or 91
   2          5         4 mg TA       IVT           100 pL           0         day 1, 14, 28, 56 or 91
1002551           Clinical observations, body weights, and intraocular pressure (IOP) were assessed
up to 13 weeks post-dose. Plasma and ocular matrixes (aqueous humor (AH), lens, iris/ciliary
body (ICB), vitreous humor (VH), sclera/choroid (SC), and retina) were sampled on Days 1, 14,
28, 56, and 91. Plasma (LLOQ 0.5 ng/mL) and ocular matrixes (LLOQ 2 - 15 ng/mL) were
analyzed using LC-MS/MS, and resulting data were assessed for noncompartmental PK
parameters.
                                                        109

   [002561           There were no observed adverse effects related to treatment or method of
   administration.      TA in plasma peaked on Day I at 4 ng/mL in both groups, and TA was
   quantifiable in all ocular matrixes through Day 91. Following SCS injection, Cmiax and AUCot
   values were greatest in the sclera/choroid, followed by the retina, vitreous humor, iris, lens,
   aqueous humor, and plasma, in order of decreasing values. Following IVT injection, Cmax and
   AUCo,    values were greatest in the vitreous humor, followed by the iris, retina, lens,
   sclera/choroid, aqueous humor, and plasma, in order of decreasing values.
   [00257]            SCS TA Cmax and AUC (area under the concentration curve) was increased in the
   sclera/choroid (Cmax: 10-fold, AUC: I 1-fold) compared with IVT TA (Table 5). SCS and IVT
   TA retina Cmax and AUC were roughly equivalent (Table 5), but SCS TA peaked more quickly
   (Day 1) compared with IVT TA (Day 14).            Exposure to TA was higher in the sclera/choroid
   following SCS injection compared to IVT injection. The SCS:IVT Cx and AUCo- ratios for
   the sclera/choroid were 12.2 and 11.7, respectively (Table 5).
   1002581           IVT TA Cm.axand AUC was increased in lens (Cmax: 290-fold, AUC: 690-fold),
   aqueous Humor (Cmax: 250-fold, ALC: 63-fold), Iris/ciliary body (Cmax,: 24-fold, AUC: 44-fold)
   and VH (Cmax: 4-fold, AUC: 52-fold) compared with SCS TA (Table 5).
Table 5. Pharmacokinetics of IVT vs. SCS treatment,
                                                                                                  SCS:
                                                                         AUC              SCS
 Matrix     Treatment       Lmax    Tmls   C         T1dl     AUCIVT
                            g/IL)  (day) (ng/mL)    (day)  (ng-day/L)
                                                                           tnL)    (day)   CAU
                                                                                          C~a
Aqueous       SCS            16      28     16        28        NA         NA       NC
                                                                                          0,06    NA
 Humor        IVT           269      14     42        91       8,500       NA       NC
   Iris/      SCS         50,200      1      47       91     1,190,000  1,190,000
 Ciliary                                                                                  0.04    0.03
  body        IVT        1,260,000    1  463,000      91    40,900,000     NA       NC
              SCS          1,87o      1      9        91      27,400       NA       NC
   Lens                                                                                   000     0,00
              IVT      I 54000       14   40,300      91    12,600,000     NA       NC
 vitreous     SCS        287000       1     10        91    3,460,000      NA       NC
 Humor        IVT
                                                                                          0.18    0.04
                         1,640,000    1  218,000      91    77,600,000 85,500,000   25
              SCS        907,000      1   2,600       91    24,600,000     NA       NC
 Retina                                                                                    1.16   0.98
              IVT        781,000     14   41,500      91    25,100,000 26,300,000   21
                                                     110

Table 5. Pharmacokinetics of IVT vs. SCS treatment,
                                                                                 AUC                     SCS
                                  Ca            ti      T3        AUC,-,                       1                 h/T
  Matrix    Treatment       Cmax      Tmx       Ca      Tat                      (ng-da/                 IVT
                           ng/m"IL)  (day)   (ng/mL3)   day)  (nig-day/m~L)                   day)Cv            AUQ
                                                                                                         Cax
                                                                                                         <fl    AC
                                        1     34,000     91    101,000,000     101,,000000      11
  Scera       SCS        2,860,000
 choroi       IVT         23,000       14      -7,100    91     8,640,000      10 300,000    43          12.20   1170
"AUC, could not be calculated for aqueous humor following SCS injection since there were not at least three
1masuteable concenttratitot. x   eh
   [002591           The data suggested that both IVT and SCS TA were well tolerated in the albino
   rabbit and systemic exposure was minimal by either route (FIG. 29). In addition, SCS TA is
   absorbed at much greater proportions into the clear/choroid and retina, while IVT TA distributes
   throughout the eye, indicating that SCS administration using a microneedle is a targeted
   approach for delivering TA to therapeutically-relevant ocular structures of posterior segment
   disease and limiting anterior segment exposure.
   Example 11. Evaluation of suprachoroidal microinjection of triameinolone acetonide in a
   model of posterior uveitis in New Zealand white rabbits
   [002601           In this study, the effects of pretreatment with suprachoroidal or intravitreal
   triamcinolone acetonide (TA) in a subretinal endotoxin-induced model of posterior segment
   uveitis in New Zealand White rabbits was evaluated.
   [002611            On Day 1, female rabbits (4 eyes/group) received a single unilateral injection of
   vehicle or 4 mg TA (Triesence*, 40 mg/mL suspension, Alcon Labs) into the suprachoroidal
   space (SCS) using a 33g 750          m microneedle, or a 4 mg TA IVT injection using a standard 30g
   needle.     On Day 6, each animal received a single unilateral subretinal injection of
   lipopolysaccharide (LPS, 20-30 gL, 203 pg/g of 1% sodium hylauronate) to induce ocular
   inflammation in the treated eye.              Animals were monitored for 22 days following dose
   administration. Endpoints included body weights, ocular observations, slit larnp biomicroscopy
   with    McDonald-Shadduck           scoring     and photography,      indirect     ophthalmoscopy,        fundus
   photography, intraocular pressure (IOP), and histopathology. A summari of the study design is
   shown below, in Table 6.
                                                        ill

Table 6. Study design
   Group        # ot eyes                Ocular Injections (OD)                        Schedule
                          Form ulation    Route           Dose          Day of Subretinal    Euthanasia
                                                        Volume          Dosing    LPS
                                                                               itj ec on
     A              4        Vehicle       SCS           100 aL         Day I    Day 6         Day 22
     B              4          TA          SCS           100 pL         Day I    Day 6         Day 22
     C              4          TA           VT           100 pL         Day 1    Day 6         Day 22
   Group          Toxin      Toxin      Treatment      Treatment location
                            location3
      A            LPS     Sub-retinal   Vehicle         suprachoroidal
     B             LPS     Sub-retinal  TA 4 mg          suprachoroidal
     C             LPS     Sub-retinal  TA 4 mg            intravitreal
[00262]          There were no test article- or administration-related effects on mortality, body
weights, or ocular observations. Additionally, no significant increase in IOP was observed after
SCS TA administration (FIG. 21D).         Thirteen days following LPS injection, eyes that were
administered the SCS vehicle displayed greater panuveitis than SCS TA or IVT TA eyes (FIG.
21A).    SCS administration of TA caused a reduction in the overall inflammatory response as
compared to control (FIG. 21A). Vitritis, aqueous flare, and cellularity were substantially less
severe in both SCS and IVT TA groups of eyes compared to SCS vehicle eyes (FIG. 21B). Iris
vessel dilation and tortuosity was reduced in SCS TA animals and reduced to a lesser extent in
IVT TA animals when compared with the SCS vehicle group. SCS TA caused a significant
reduction in inflammatory endpoints when compared with the vehicle group throughout the
study. There was a marked reduction in inflammation as assessed histopathologically in eyes
administered either SCS or IVT TA when compared with the vehicle group (FIG. 21C).
[00263]          The results of the study showed that SCS administration of 4 mg TA using a
hollow microneedle was as effective as 4 mg IVT TA in reducing the inflammatory response in
this subretinal endotoxin-induced model of posterior uveitis in the albino rabbit.
                                                  112

Example 12.       Treatment of acute posterior uveitis in a porcine model by injection of
triamcinolone      acetonide into the suprachoroidal          space   using microneedles     versus
triamcinolone acetonide intravitreal injection
[00264]         In this study, the effects of microneedle injection of triancinolone acetonide (TA)
into the suprachoroidal space (SCS) were compared to the effects of intravitreal (IVT) TA
injection in a model of acute posterior uveitis.
[00265]         Ten weanling pigs had IVT injection with BSS or lipopolysaccharide (LPS)
followed 24 hours later with an injection of 0.2 ng or 2.0 mg of TA into the SCS or by IVT.
The SCS was accessed using hollow microneedles provided herein. A measurement of each eye
under the Hackett/McDonald scoring system was performed on -1, 0, and 3 days after treatment.
Pigs were then euthanized, aqueous and vitreous humor collected for cell counts and protein
levels, and the eyes were processed for histopathology.
[00266]         injection of TA to the SCS using microneedles was associated with a significant
reduction in inflainatory response in the pigs treated. (FIG. 22A). Furthermore, this reduction
in inflammatory response can be achieved at lower doses when TA is delivered to the SCS than
when TA is delivered intravitreally.       FIG. 22B shows that a reduction in inflammation was
observed with in 3 days with a dose of TA administered to the SCS that was ten percent of the
dose of TA required when administered intravitreally.
[00267]         Results from this study suggest that delivery of TA to the SCS provides effective
control of inflammation, and may do so at a significantly lower dose than TA delivered
intravitreally.
Example 13.       Treatment of acute posterior uveitis in a porcine model by injection of
triamcinolone acetonide into the suprachoroidal space using microneedles
[00268]         Use of animals in this study adhered to the ARVO Statement for the Use of
Animals in Ophthalmic and Visual Research and was approved and monitored by the North
Carolina State University Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee. Animals were
acclimated to the study environment for I week prior to uveitis induction.
                                                  113

[00269]         A total of 20 domestic weakling pigs (Sus scrofa domnesticus), nale or female,
(12-20 kg) were used in this study. Only the left eye was tested in this study; the right eye was
not injected, examined, or treated. All injections were performed with the pigs anesthetized
(intramuscular Telazol-Ketamine-Xvlazine and isoflorane in oxygen via mask) and the eye
prepared aseptically (sterile 5% betadine solution followed by irrigation with sterile eyewash).
Immediately following the injections, I drop of moxifloxacin ophthalmic solution (Vigamox@K,
Alcon Laboratories, Fort Worth, TX) was applied topically.
1002701         Twenty-four hours prior to SCS or IVT injection of TA or vehicle (Day -1), 100
ng of lipopolysaccharide (LPS; E. coli 055:B55; Sigma, Inc. St. Louis, MO) in 100 pL BSS
(Balanced Salt Solution, Alcon Laboratories, Inc., Forth Worth, TX), was injected using a 27
gauge needle into the posterior central vitreous.
1002711         Twenty-four hours after the LPS injection (Day 0), 0.2 mg or 2.0 mg of
commercially-available TA (Triesence@; Alcon Laboratories, Inc, Forth Worth, TX) or vehicle
was injected either intravitreally (27 gauge needle) or into the SCS (33 gauge, 850 pim
microneedle) in eyes prepared aseptically (Table 7). The dose of TA was selected to represent a
typical therapeutic dose (e.g., 2.0 mg) and a dose 10 times less to compare therapeutic effect.
1002721         All injections were made superiorly, approximately 5-6 nun posterior to the
limbus. To help stabilize the eye for SCS injection, a sterile laboratory spatula (Corning sterile
flat end spatula, Corning Life Sciences, Corning, NY) was placed in the inferior conjunctival
fornix. To become proficient at the SCS injection technique with microneedles, approximately
 10-15 SCS injections were made in cadaver porcine eyes prior to conducting this study. TA was
diluted using vehicle to provide a low dose (0.2 mg/i 00 L) or high dose (2.0 mg/l00 4L). The
vehicle (100 uL) was also used in the control groups, but without TA.        Treatment groups are
listed in Table 7.
Table 7. Treatment groups and study design
   Group                    Treatment                Number of              Examinations
                              100 pL                   animals
                         (Day-1 / Day 0)
                                                 114

Table 7. Treatment groups and study design
       1                   BSS 1VT Vehicle SCS                        2
                                                                                    Ocular inflammatory      scores:
       2                100 ng LPS IVT / Vehicle SCS                                     Days -1,  0, 1, 2, & 3
       3              100 ng LPS IVT / 0.2 mg TA SCS                  4                          tOP:
                                                                                     Days -6, -4, - 1, 0, 1,2, & 3*
       4              100 nL LPS IVT / 2.0 mg TA SCS                  4
                                                                                          ERG, OCT, Photo:
       5              100 ng LPS IVT / 0.2 mg TA IVT                  4                    Days -1, 0, & 3
       6              100 t LPIS IVT / 2.0 mg TA IVT                  4
BSS - balanced salt solut ion; IVT - intravitreal; SCS - suprachoroidal space; LPS - lipopolysaccharide; TA
   riamcrnolone acetanide; ERG - eiectroretinography; OCT - optical coherence tomography; Photo: ocular funds
*lis 1, 3, and 6 hours after treatment electionss
                                     Days of the Week! Study Time (Hours)
M          T       W         R        F        S        S         M       T       W         R          F
-192     -168     -144     -120     -96       -72     -48       -24       0       24       48          72
                    OP                IOP                         GA      GA       lOP       IOP       lOP
                                                                  LPS     TA       Exam     Exam       Exam
Start acclimation                                                                                      GA
Ocular Inflammatory Scores
[002731            A Hackett-McDonald microscopic ocular inflammatory scoring system, modified
for use in pigs (instead of New Zealand White rabbits) as described below, was used to evaluate
the ocular anterior segment and anterior vitreous.                    Scores of the conjunctiva (congestion,
swelling, discharge, 0-4); aqueous flare (0-3); pupillary light reflex (0-2); iris involvement (0-4);
cornea (involvement and area, 0-4); pannus (vascularization, 0-2); and anterior vitreal cellular
infiltrate (0-4) were summed to provide a single inflammatory score for each animal for each
examination. Using a portable slit lamp biomicroscope (Zeiss HSO--10, Carl Zeiss Meditec, Inc.
USA), ocular inflammatory scores were evaluated at Day -i (prior to LPS injection), at Day 0
(prior to vehicle or TA injection), then at 1, 2 and 3 days after injection.
Intraocular Pressure
                                                           115

[00274]        Intraocular pressure (lOP) was measured at -6, -4, -1, 0, 1, 2, and 3 days using a
TonoVet Tonometer (iCare, Finland). In addition, IOP was measured 1, 3, and 6 hours after SCS
or IVT injections on Day 0. The measurements were collected without use of topical anesthetic,
per manufacturer recommendation. Conditioning of the pigs during acclimation permitted
routine ocular examinations and LOP measurements to be done with minimal manual restraint.
The tip of the tonometer probe was directed to contact the central cornea and 6 measurements
were made consecutively. After the six measurements, the mean IOP was shown on the display
providing the lOP that was recorded.
Electroretinography (ERG)
1002751        With the pigs anesthetized on Days -1, 0 and 3, and pupils dilated with 1%
tropicamide HCL and corneas anesthetized with 0.5% proparacaine HCi, whole field ERGs were
recorded from the left eye prior to injections. All animals were dark adapted for 15 minutes prior
to ERG. A monopolar contact lens electrode (ERG-jet, La Chaux des Fonds, Switzerland) was
placed on the cornea to serve as an active electrode. A subdermal electrode at the lateral canthus
served as the indifferent electrode. A Barraquer eyelid speculum was placed to maintain open
eyelids and a subdermal needle electrode was inserted dorsally as the ground electrode. ERGs
were elicited by brief flashes at 0.33 Hz delivered with a mini-ganzfeld photostimulator (Roland
Instruments, Wiesbaden, Germany) at maximal intensity.         Twenty responses were amplified,
filtered, and averaged (Retiport Electrophysiologic Diagnostic Systems, Roland Instruments,
Wiesbaden, Germany). B wave amplitudes were recorded from each pig at the designated times.
Wide-field Ocular Fundus Digital Photography
1002761        On study days -1, 0 and 3, with the animals anesthetized and pupils dilated with
tropicamide 1%, the ocular fundus was photographed using standardized illumination and focus
by a wide-field digital imaging system (Retcam II, Clarity Medical Systems, Pleasanton, CA).
Optical Coherence Tomography
1002771        Following wide-field ocular fundus photography on Days -1, 0, and 3, the central
retina was imaged with spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) (Bioptigen
                                                 116

SDOCT EnVisu Ophthalmic Imaging System, Durharn, NC) using 6 imaging protocols
(including rectangular volume scans of 6, 8, and 12 mm, and doppler rectangular volume). The
SD-OCT allowed in vivo assessment of retinal pathology and retinal thickness was measured,
using internal calipers, of three representative areas one disc diameter superior to the optic disc
then averaged to provide a mean value retinal thickness per eye per time period.
Ocular Histopathology
[00278]           Pigs were euthanized on study day 3 after clinical scoring, OCT, ERG, and wide
field ocular fundus photography was completed.              After euthanasia with an overdose of
intravenous barbiturate, both eyes were removed, Aqueous humor (AH) was aspirated and a I
mL sample of vitreous humor (VIH) was collected from each eye immediately after euthanasia,
The globe was then fixed in Davidson's solution for 24 hours, followed by alcohol. Central,
saggital sections of each globe, including the optic nerve, were stained with hematoxylin and
eosin and examined by light microscopy. Two pathology-trained observers, masked to the study
groups, graded degree of inflammatory infiltrate of the ocular anterior and posterior segments.
The grading scale for the anterior and posterior ocular segment used was as follows: 0 = no
evidence of cellular infiltrate; 1:= a few cells infiltrated (mild) - focal; 2  = a few cells infiltrated
(mild)   -  diffuse; 3 =   moderate number of cells infiltrated; and 4     =   high amount of cellular
infiltrate.
Aqueous and Vitreous Humor Inflammatory Cell Counts and Protein Concentration
1002791           After aspiration from the eyes, AH and VH were immediately placed on ice,
transferred to the laboratory, then frozen at -800 C until processing. Samples where thawed at
room temperature, vortexed, and total cell counts were performed with a hemocytometer. Total
protein concentration was measured using the Bradford Assay (Pierce BCA Protein Assay Kit,
Thermo Scientific Pierce, R-ockford, IlL).
Data and Statistical Analysis
[00280]           For histologic grading, two independent observers masked to the treatment group
evaluated each eye at each time point and the average resulting scores for each animal were used
for analysis. Parametric normally distributed data (i.e., IOP, ERG, retinal thickness, cell counts,
                                                  117

protein concentration) were compared by time point for each group using I -way ANOVA
models with Tukey-Krarner post-hoc analysis. For non-parametric data (i.e., clinical scores,
histologic grades), Wilcoxon tests were conducted per animal by time point. Differences were
considered significant at P<0.05. Results and probabilities were calculated using computerized
statistical software (JMP 10, SAS Inc. Cary, NC).
Results
[00281]          Injections of TA or vehicle into the SCS were accomplished using microneedles
without difficulty or adverse effect.     Eyes were examined via slit lamp biomicroscopy and
indirect ophthalmoscopy following each injection. No evidence of back-leakage of treatment
materials through the microneedle scleral perforation or leakage of the white drug suspension
into the vitreous was observed following SCS injection. Intravitreal TA injections were visible
as central vitreal white depots on indirect ophthalmoscopy. Furthermore, there was no evidence
of injection site or vitreal hemorrhage following any injections (SCS or IVT).
Ocular Inflammatory Scores
[002821          Following intravitreal injection of LPS on Day -1, cumulative inflammatory
scores elevated to between 6 and 10 in all groups (FIG. 23). Scores in eves injected with LPS
were significantly higher than in eyes injected with BSS (P<0.02).          Following treatment
injections on Day 0, inflammatory scores generally decreased, although 24 hours after treatment,
eyes treated with vehicle (Group 2) had mean scores significantly higher than the other treatment
groups (P<0.02) and eyes treated with IVT 0.2 mg TA (Group 5) had mean scores that were
significantly higher (P<0.03) than Groups 1, 3, 4 and 6. At 48 and 72 hours after treatment, eyes
treated with 0.2 mg IVT TA (Group 4) had significantly higher mean scores than eyes treated
with SCS TA (0.2 and 2.0 mg; Groups 3 and 4) and vehicle (Group 1). Eyes treated with SCS
TA (0.2 and 2.0 mg; Groups 3 and 4) and 1VT TA (2.0 mg; Group 6) had mean inflammatory
scores not significantly different than eyes treated with vehicle at each examination day (i.
Days 1, 2, and 3) after treatment (FIG. 23).
Intraocular Pressure
                                                 118

[00283]         Intraocular pressure ranged from 19 to 24 mnHg during acclimation and
decreased slightly over time as pigs became accustomed to being handled.            On induction of
uveitis, the TOP decreased by time 0 to between 12 and 16 nmHg in groups receiving LPS.
Following treatment injections, IOP remained low in all groups through 6 hours post injection,
then returned to baseline. Group I eyes, which did not receive LPS, had significantly higher TOP
 I and 3 hours after treatment injections than Group 2 eyes (P=:0.01; 0.04). Otherwise, there were
no significant differences between the groups (FIG. 24) and there were no acute elevations in
LOP noted immediately (i.e., 1, 3, 6 hours) after injections.
Electroretinography
[00284]         Scotopic B wave amplitudes were not significantly different between any of the
groups evaluated at each time point (i.e., Days -1, 0, and 3), except for Group 4 at Day -1, which
was significantly higher than Groups 1, 3, 5, and 6 (P<0.007).        This pretreatment result was
likely a result of biologic variation and is not clinically significant. However, no evidence of
retinal dysfunction (i.e., decrease in b wave amplitude) was noted after injections.
Wide-field Ocular Fundus Digital Photography
[00285]         Wide-field ocular fundus images revealed substantial cloudiness of the ocular
posterior segment 24 hours after LPS injection, except in Group 1, which was injected with BSS
and remained normal in appearance. The cloudiness observed in the LPS injected eyes was a
result of exudative and cellular infiltrate into the vitreous humor. In vehicle treated eyes (Group
2), the cloudiness appeared to increase from Days I to 3 post-injection. Treatment with 0.2 and
2.0 mg TA into the SCS and 2.0 mg TA IVT resulted in ocular fundus images with less vitreal
cloudiness and similar to the pre-treatment fundus appearance. However, treatment with 0.2 mg
TA IVT resulted in images only slightly improved over vehicle treated eyes. Eyes with 2.0 mg
TA IVT injections had a solid large depot of TA visible in the central vitreous (FIGS 25A-B).
Optical Coherence Tomography
[00286]         There was no significant difference in retinal thickness in any of the groups prior
to or following the injections. Overt retinal pathology was not observed after the induction of
uveitis or treatments, however, cells were observed emanating from retinal vasculature.
                                                   119

Ocular Histopathology
[00287]           None of the eyes examined in any group had evidence of substantial tissue
structural or toxicologic changes on histopathology. However, all eyes, except Group I (BSS
intravitreal / vehicle SCS), had cellular infiltrate in the anterior uvea, vitreous, and retina. The
cellular infiltrate was predominantly neutrophils. Group 2 eyes (LPS intravitreal / vehicle SCS)
had moderate to severe neutrophilic infiltrate in the iris, iris root and iridocorneal angles.
Additionally, there was moderate to severe neutrophilic infiltrate in the vitreous body, inner
retinal layers, and retinal perivascular cuffing of inflammatory cells (FIG. 26). In Group 3 eyes
(LPS intravitreal / low dose TA SCS), there was mild neutrophilic infiltrate in the iris, and
moderate infiltrate of neutrophils in the inner retinal layers and vitreous. The anterior segment of
Group 4 eyes (LPS intravitreal / high dose TA SCS) was normal, with only an occasionally
observed inflammation cell. The vitreous had very mild neutrophilic infiltration and very mild
inner retinal cellular infiltrate. TA was visible in the SCS space on each eye in Group 4 (FIG.
26) indicating that the injection technique indeed delivered TA to the SCS.            There was no
inflammation or histologic evidence of toxicity in the SCS as a result of the TA or injection. In
Group 5 eyes (LPS intravitreal / low dose TA IVT), there was mild neutrophilic infiltrate in the
anterior uvea and moderate to severe cellular infiltrate in the vitreous and moderate infiltrate in
the inner retina including moderate perivascular infiltrate. In Group 6 eyes (LPS intravitreal /
high dose TA SCS), there was mild neutrophilic infiltrate in the anterior uvea, and moderate
vitreal infiltrates, including mild perivascular infiltrate (FIG. 26).
[002881           Review of ocular histopathologic inflammatory scores (FIG. 27) of the anterior
and posterior segment revealed that Group I eyes (BSS intravitreal / vehicle SCS) had mean
histologic inflammatory scores that were significantly lower than the other groups (P<0.04).
Eyes in Group 5 (LPS intravitreal / low dose TA IVT) had mean histologic inflammatory scores
in the anterior segment that were significantly higher than eyes receiving high dose TA either in
the SCS (Group 4) or intravitreally (Group 6) (P<0.04). Eyes of Group 4 (LPS intravitreal / high
dose TA SCS) had mean histologic inflammatory scores in the ocular posterior segment that
were significantly lower than vehicle treated eyes (Group 2) and eyes treated with iVT TA
(Groups 5 and 6)         (P<0.04).   Eyes treated with high dose IVT TA had mean histologic
                                                  120

inflanunatory scores that were significantly lower than vehicle treated eyes (Group 2) (P::0.01 8)
(FIG, 27).
Aqueous and Vitreous Humor Inflammatory Cell Counts and Protein Concentration
[00289]          Mean aqueous humor (AH) cell counts ranged from 2,000 cells/ ml in Group I
(BSS intravitreal/ vehicle SCS) eves to 27,800 + SD 530 cells/ml in Group 2 (LPS intravitreal /
vehicle SCS) eyes, which were significantly higher than each other group (P<0.0023). Mean AH
cell counts of Groups 5 (LPS intravitreal / low dose TA [VT) and 6 (LPS intravitreal / high dose
TA IVT) were significantly higher than Group I (BSS intravitreal / vehicle SCS) (P::::0.022;
P:::0.021). Mean AH cell counts of Groups 3 (LPS intravitreal / low dose TA SCS) and 4 (LPS
intravitreal / high dose TA SCS) were not significantly different than A [H cell counts of Group I
(BSS intravitreal / vehicle SCS), Group 5 (LPS intravitreal / low dose TA IVT), or 6 (LPS
intravitreal /high dose TA IVT) (FIG 28).
[00290]          Mean vitreous humor (VIH) cell counts ranged from 6,300 cells/mil in Group I
(BSS intravitreal / vehicle SCS) eyes to 55,000     SD 1,620 cells/mil in Group 2 (LPS intravitreal
/ vehicle SCS) eves, which was significantly higher than each other group (P<0.018). Mean VH
cell count of Group 3 (LPS intravitreal / low dose TA SCS) was significantly higher than Group
 1 (BSS intravitreal / vehicle SCS) (P=0.03 1) and Group 4 (LPS intravitreal / high dose TA SCS)
(P:::0.048). Mean VH cell count of Group 5 (LPS intravitreal / low dose TA IVT) also was
significantly higher than VH cell counts in Group I (BSS intravitreal / vehicle SCS) (P=0.023)
and Group 4 (LPS intravitreal /high dose TA SCS) (P=:0.032). Mean VH cell count of Group 3
(LPS intravitreal / low dose TA SCS) was not significantly different than VH cell counts in
Groups 5 (LPS intravitreal / low dose TA lVT) and 6 (LPS intravitreal / high dose TA IVT).
Furthermore, mean VH cell counts of Group 4 (LPS intravitreal / high dose TA SCS) were not
significantly different than the VH cell counts of Group 1, the untreated control (FIG. 28).
1002911          Mean aqueous humor (AH) protein concentration ranged from 0.0 mg/mI in
Group I (BSS intravitreal / vehicle SCS) eyes to 3.0      SD 3.5 mg/ml in Group 6 eyes. There
were no significant differences in mean aqueous humor protein concentration among the groups.
Mean vitreous humor (VH) protein concentration ranged from 0.0 mg/ml in Group I (BSS
intravitreal / vehicle SCS) eyes to 4.0  SD 0.8 mg/nil in Group 6 (LPS intravitreal / high dose
                                                121

TA IVT) eyes. Group I (BSS intravitreal / vehicle SCS) and Group 4 (LPS intravitreal / high
dose TA SCS) had significantly lower mean vitreous hunor protein concentrations than Groups
3 (LPS intravitreal / low dose TA SCS), 5 (LPS intravitreal / low dose TA IVT), and 6 (LPS
intravitreal / high dose TA IVI) (1<0.033).
[00292]          These data show that delivery of TA to the SCS using microneedles was effective
and tolerated with an acceptable safety profile for up to three days after injection in porcine eyes.
Furthermore, SCS injection of 0.2 rmg and 2.0 ng of TA was as effective in reducing
inflammation in this model as 2.0 mg TA IVT injection. Mean inflammatory scores, vitreal
cellular infiltrate OCT scores, and histologic grades of eyes receiving 0.2 mg and 2.0 mg of TA
in the SCS were not significantly different from 2.0 TA injected IVT. There was evidence that
0.2 mg TA injected in the SCS was as effective in reducing acute ocular inflammation as was 2.0
mg TA IV'T, while 0.2 mug TA IVT was less effective. A I 0-fold decrease in effective dose when
the drug is delivered to the SCS may have occurred because of more targeted delivery of the TA
to the choroid and retina.
1002931          There was no evidence of injection site complications, acute elevated intraocular
pressure, or retinal toxicity after SCS injections. Acutely elevated IOP was not observed in this
study after SCS injections.
1002941          Delivery of TA to the SCS provides effective therapy to reduce acute posterior
uveitis in a model that is similar in anatomy, size, and retinal vascular pattern to the human eye.
There were no adverse effects, increased IOP, or evidence of procedural or acute drug toxicity
following injection of TA into the SCS in porcine eyes.
Example 14.       Suprachoroidal microinjection of bevacizumab is well tolerated in human
patients
1002951          The safety and tolerabilty of a single mnicroneedle injection of bevacizumab into
the suprachoroidal space (SCS) using a micronoeedle was evaluated. Four adult patients with
choroidal neovascularization (CNV), secondary to wet age-related macular degeneration (AMD),
were enrolled in a phase 1, single-center, open-label study. Each subject provided informed
consent and was screened for eligibility.       Following application of topical anesthesia, each
                                                 122

patient was administered a single unilateral injection of 100 [IL bevacizumab (Avastino) into the
SCS using an 850 um 33 gauge microneedle.           The microneedle was inserted into the sclera
approximately 8-12 mm posterior to the limbus in the superior temporal quadrant. Treated
patients remained in the clinic for 4 hours for observation and then returned multiple times for
follow-up during a 2 month period. Major safety examinations included intraocular pressure
(LOP), angiograms, biomicroscopy, indirect ophthalmoscopy, fundus photography, optical
coherence tomography (OCT), visual acuity (VA) (Table 8), and assessment of pain.
[00296]         Four patients were successfully dosed into the SCS which was confirmed via
ophthaImoscope immediately following injection. A moderate level of pain was recorded for the
administration. There were no unexpected or serious adverse events related to bevacizumab or
the method of administration on ophthalmic examinations.        No negative effect on IOP, OCT
(FIG. 30) or VA was noted in any subject. No patients required rescue therapy or reinjection
during the two months following treatment. The results of the study showed that the SCS can be
successfully and safely dosed via the microneedle using only topical anethesia. The results of
the study also demonstrate that 100 pL of bevacizumab can be delivered into the SCS without
unexpected or serious adverse events.
           Table 8. Visual Acuity of Patients.
           Patient         Screening       Pre-does      28 day post   56 day post dose
                                                         dose
                 1              20/40          20/80        20/40            20/40
                 2              20/40          20/40        20/20            20/20
                 3             20/320         20/320       20/250           20/250
                 4             20/400         20/400       20/400           20/400
Example 15. Comparison of the total amount of triameinolone acetonide delivered via
suprachoroidal or intravitreal administration
[00297]         In this study, the total amount of triamcinolone acetonide (TA) delivered into a
pig eye when injected into the suprachoroidal space using a hollow microneedle or into the
vitreous using a standard 30 gauge needle was compared.
                                                123

[00298]        Whole pig cadaver eyes (Sioux-Preme Packing) enucleated within 24 hours after
death were used for all injections.     Intravitreal and suprachoroidal injections of TA were
performed using Triesenceo: (TA; Alcon Labs). Intravitreal injections were performed using a 30
g needle (Becton-Dickinson) and suprachoroidal injections were performed using a hollow
microneedle. ImL syringes (Becton- Dickinson) were loaded with the required amount of TA at
each of the three volumes assessed: 50, 100, and 150 pL (2, 4, and 6 mg, respectively). The
residual amount of TA present in the syringe/needle assembly after injection was determined by
RP-HPLC. The total amount of TA delivered to the eve for each dose volume was determined as
the difference in the total amount loaded into a syringe before injection into the pig eye versus
the residual amount of TA recovered from the syringe/needle assembly after injection.
[002991        Average total dose administered following 50, 100 and 150 pL TA injected into
the suprachoroidal space ranged from 86-92% of the target dose level, while average total dose
administered following 50 and 100 iL TA injected into the vitreous ranged from 88-89%.
Virtually no difference was observed between the two routes of administration and needles for
each volume.     The results of the study showed that the target dose level of TA can be
consistently delivered into the SCS using a microneedle or into the vitreous using a 30 g needle.
Total amount of TA delivered was similar between the two administration routes.
Example 16. Suprachoroidal microinjection of 4mg triamcinolone acetonide in the New
Zealand white rabbit
[003001        In this study, the ocular tolerability and toxicokinetics of suprachoroidal
administration of 4mg triamcinolone acetonide (TA) using a microneedle was determined, in the
New Zealand White rabbit as an animal model.
[003011        On Day 0., New Zealand White (NZW) rabbits (4/sex/group/terminal time point,
48 total) were administered a single bilateral suprachoroidal injection of 100 L of 4 mg TA (40
mg/mL) or vehicle, using a 33g 750 gm microneedle. Clinical observations, body weights, food
consumption,     slit  lamp    biomicroscopy     with  McDonald-Shadduck        scoring,  indirect
ophthalmoscopy, intraocular pressure assessment (IOP), central corneal thickness (CCT),
electroretinography (ERG), serum chemistry and hematology, and systemic exposure were
                                                124

assessed up to 13 weeks post-dose. Animals were sacrificed on Day I or Week 13 and were
evaluated for macroscopic observations at necropsy and ocular histopathology. Four animals/sex
were given an additional suprachoroidal administration on Day 90, and will be followed for an
additional 13 weeks.
[00302]        TA injection into the suprachoroidal space using the microneedle was performed
successfully in 96 eyes. There were no administration- or TA-related adverse effects on clinical
observations, body weight, body weight gain, food consumption, or serum chemistry and
hematology.
[00303]        Findings observed during slit lamp biomicroscopy and findus examination were
generally mild and transient in nature, and demonstrated excellent ocular tolerability for up to 13
weeks following suprachoroidal administration (Table 9).
Table 9 Ophthalmic Examinations
                Treatment                        Vehicle                    40 mg/mL TA
 Number of Animals                            M: 12         F: 12        M: 12          F: 12
 Conjunctival Congestion (Slight,                  -            1             -             2
 Transient)
 Conjunctival Discharge (Slight,                   -            -             -             2
 Transient)
 Corneal Staining (Slight, Transient)              2            1             1             1
 Corneal Scratch (Trace, Transient)                1            1             1
 Fibrin in Vitreous (Transient)                                 1             1
 Retina, Abnormal Area (Small,                                  1
 Transient)
1003041        A decrease in intraocular pressure (IOP) related to the injection procedure was
observed in both groups at 24 hours following suprachoroidal administration (FIG. 31). This has
                                               125

also been observed in studies employing intravitreal injection. A mild increase in IOP of
approximately 2-3 rnmHg was observed in the 4 mg TA group when compared with the vehicle
group on Days 7-90, but was not considered adverse due to the small magnitude of change (FIG.
31). A decrease in LOP was observed in the vehicle group on Day 28, and was investigated, but
no contributing factors to this unexpected dataset were uncovered.
[00305]         On Day 1, a slight decrease in central corneal thickness (CCT), as measured by
pachymetery, was observed in both groups, which resolved by Day 90, There was no significant
difference in CCT between treatments (FG. 32).
[00306]         There was no administration- or 4 mug TA-related effect on a-wave or b-wave
implicit time or amplitude, as assessed by scototopic electroretinography (ERG) (Table 10).
Table 10. Electroretinography
                                                                                    Scotopic
  Treatment                         T         Protocol              a-wave                        b-wave
                                Point                        _   _   _  _     ____         ____          _   _  _
                                                                   Mean          SD             Mean       SD
                                             Time (ms)          12.7              0.9         39.3           7
    Vehicle                    Baseline
                                          Amplitude (pV)        116.1             22         256.6          69
                                             Time (ms)          12.9              0.9         52.5          1.3
                                Day   I
                                          Amplitude (pV)       -121.5          20.3          244.5           50.6
                                             Time (ms)          12.6              0.7         51.6           1
                                Day 90   -----      ------- -----                      ............
                                                                        --- ---------------              .........
                                          Amplitude (pV)       -115.9          19.9          290.4           53.7
                                             Time (ms)          12.5           0.06           43A          8.6
   Triamcinolone               Baseline
                                          Amplitude (pV)       -131.6          28.2          257.3           33.6
                                             Time (ms)          12.5              0.6         51.8          1.7
                                Day   I
                                          Amplitude (pV)      -123.15          21.3          239.8           38.6
                                             Time (ms)          12.8              0.7         52.4          1.2
                                D ay 9 0                    ----
                                                         ------ ---    ---
                                                                     ---
                                                                   ---    --
                                          Amplitude (pV)       -145.8          31.5          338.1           56.1
1003071          FIG. 33 shows the mean TA concentration in plasma, SD, as measured in 8
rabbits. Systemic exposure to TA following suprachoroidal administration was minimal with a
mean C., of 12 ng/mL on Day 1.
                                                    12 6

[00308]          Histopathologically, TA was easily visualized within the suprachoroidal space on
Day 1, and vehicle was not discernible. There were no adverse effects related to the method of
administration or 4 mg TA as assessed by histopathology (Table 11),
Table 11. Histopathological assessments
                  Treatment                              Vehicle               40 mg/mL TA
 Number of Animals                               M: 4           F: 4       M: 4          F: 4
 Conjunctival Extravasated Lymphocytes            -              3          2            3
 Conjunctival Epithelial Thinning                 -              1          1            3
 Ciliary Process Edema                            2              1          1            2
 Inflammatory Cells in Stroma Limbus              -              I          -            I
 TA in SCS                                        -              -          4            4
 Small Area of Retinal Damage (Mild)              -              -          -            1
[003091          These data provide further evidence that administration into the suprachoroidal
space using a microneedle may be a safe, non-surgical option for ocular drug delivery of drug
formulation, e.g., triamcinolone.    A single bilateral suprachoroidal injection of 4 mg TA (40
mg/mL) using a 33g 750 pm microneedle was well tolerated in the albino rabbit and resulted in
limited systemic exposure to TA.
[003101          Publications,  patents and patent applications cited herein are specifically
incorporated by reference in their entireties. While the described invention has been described
with reference to the specific embodiments thereof it should be understood by those skilled in the
art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from
the true spirit and scope of the invention. In addition, many modifications may be made to adopt
a particular situation, material, composition of matter, process, process step or steps, to the
                                                 I2'7

objective spirit and scope of the described invention. All such modifications are intended to be
within the scope of the claims appended hereto.
                                               128

                                               CLAIMS
1.      A method of treating a posterior ocular disorder in a human subject in need thereof, the
method comprising,
        non-surgically    administering an effective amount of a drug formulation to the
suprachoroidal space (SCS.) of the eye of the human subject in need of treatment of the posterior
ocular disorder,
        wherein upon administration, the drug formulation flows away from the insertion site and
is substantially localized to the posterior segment of the eye.
2.      The method of claim 1, wherein the administering step comprises inserting a hollow
microneedle into the sclera at an insertion site, the microneedle having a tip end with an opening
and infusing the drug formulation into the SCS through the inserted microneedle.
3.      The method of claim 2, wherein the insertion site is at about the equator of the eye, or
between the equator and the limbus of the eye.
4.      The method of claim 2 or 3, wherein the microneedle has a length of from about 500 ptm
and about 1500 pm.
5.      The method of any one of claims 2-4, wherein the microneedle has a diameter of from
about 200 pm to about 600 jim.
6.      The method of any one of claims 2-5, wherein the microneedle has a bevel angle of about
5 degrees to about 30 degrees.
7.      The method of any one of claims 2-6, wherein the bevel height is from about 100 pm to
about 500 pm.
8.      The method of any one of claims 2-7, wherein the microneedle is inserted into the sclera
without penetrating through the sclera.
                                                  12 9

9.      The method of any one of claims 2-8, wherein the microneedle is inserted into the
sclera without penetrating through the choroid.
10.     The method of any one of claims 2-9, wherein the microneedle comprises a beveled
tip.
11.     The method of claim 10, wherein the beveled tip has an angle from about 10 degrees
to about 20 degrees.
12.     The method of claim 10 or 11, wherein the beveled tip has an aspect ratio of from
about 1:1.5 to about 1:10.
13.     The method of any one of claims 10-12, wherein the beveled tip has a height of from
about 500 gm to about 1 mm.
14.     The method of any one of claims 2-13, wherein the microneedle has a length of from
about 500 gm to about 1500 gm.
15.     The method of claim 14, wherein the microneedle has a length of from about 500 pm
to about 1000 gm.
16.     The method of any one of claims 2-15, wherein the microneedle comprises a
cylindrical shaft having an outer diameter of from about 200 microns to about 600 microns.
17.     The method of any one of claims 1-16, wherein the effective amount of the drug
formulation is present in a volume of from about 10 gL to about 200 gL.
18.     The method of any one of claims 1-17, wherein the effective amount of the drug
formulation is present in a volume of from about 30 gL to about 100 gL.
19.     The method of any one of claims 1-18, wherein the drug formulation comprises a
suspension of microparticles.
                                              130

20.     The method of anyone of claims 1-19, wherein the drug formulation comprises a
suspension of nanoparticles.
21.     The method of claim 19, wherein the microparticles have a D50 of 2 gm or less.
22.     The method of claim 20, wherein the nanoparticles have a D5 0 of 1000 nm or less.
23.     The method of claim 20, wherein the nanoparticles have a D5 0 of 500 nm or less.
24.     The method of claim 20, wherein the nanoparticles have a D5 0 of 250 nm or less.
25.     The method of claim 19 or 20, wherein the microparticles or nanoparticles have a D 99
of 10 gm or less.
26.     The method of claim 19 or 20, wherein the microparticles or nanoparticles have a D 99
of 5 gm or less.
27.     The method of any one of claims 2-26, wherein the microneedle is inserted into the
surface of the sclera at an angle of from about 70 degrees to about 110 degrees.
28.     The method of any one of claims 2-27, wherein the microneedle is inserted into the
surface of the sclera at an angle of about 90 degrees.
29.     The method of any one of claims 1-28, wherein the drug formulation comprises an
anti-inflammatory drug.
30.     The method of claim 29, wherein the anti-inflammatory drug is selected from
mycophenolate, infliximab, nepafenac, azathioprine, cyclosphosphamide, dexamethasone,
difluprednate, fluocinolone, fluorometholone, leteprednol, prednisolone acetate, prednisolone
sodium phosphate, rimexolone, triamcinolone, bromfenac, diclofenac, fluibiprofen, ketorolac,
adalimumab,     etanercept,   certolizumab,  gotimumab,   daclizumab,    rituximab, abatacept,
basiliximab, belimumab, anakinra, efalizuma, alefacept, and natalizumab.
                                               131

31.    The method of claim 29 or 30, wherein the anti-inflammatory drug is mycophenolate.
32.    The method of claim 29 or 30, wherein the anti-inflammatory drug is infliximab.
33.    The method of claim 29 or 30, wherein the anti-inflammatory drug is nepafenac.
34.    The method of claim 29 or 30, wherein the anti-inflammatory drug is azathioprine.
35.    The  method   of claim    29 or    30,   wherein    the anti-inflammatory    drug  is
cyclosphosphamide.
36.    The method of claim 29 or 30, wherein the drug is dexamethsone.
37.    The method of claim 29 or 30, wherein the anti-inflammatory drug is difluprednate.
38.    The method of claim 29 or 30, wherein the anti-inflammatory drug is fluocinolone.
39.    The method of claim 29 or 30, wherein the anti-inflammatory drug is leteprednol.
40.    The method of claim 29 or 30, wherein the drug is triamcinolone.
41.    The method of claim 40, wherein the triamcinolone is triamcinolone acetonide.
42.    The method of claim 29 or 30, wherein the anti-inflammatory drug is bromfenac.
43.    The method of claim 29 or 30, wherein the anti-inflammatory drug is diclofenac.
44.    The method of claim 29 or 30, wherein the anti-inflammatory drug is fluibiprofen.
45.    The method of claim 29 or 30, wherein the anti-inflammatory drug is ketorolac.
46.    The method of claim 29 or 30, wherein the anti-inflammatory drug is adalimumab.
                                            132

47.      The method of claim 29 or 30, wherein the anti-inflammatory drug is etanercept.
48.      The method of claim 29 or 30, wherein the anti-inflammatory drug is certolizumab.
49.      The method of claim 29 or 30, wherein the anti-inflammatory drug is gotimumab.
50.      The method of claim 29 or 30, wherein the anti-inflammatory drug is daclizumab.
51.      The method of claim 29 or 30, wherein the anti-inflammatory drug is rituximab.
52.      The method of claim 29 or 30, wherein the anti-inflammatory drug is abatacept.
53.      The method of claim 29 or 30, wherein the anti-inflammatory drug is basiliximab.
54.      The method of claim 29 or 30, wherein the anti-inflammatory drug is belimumab.
55.      The method of claim 29 or 30, wherein the anti-inflammatory drug is anakinra.
56.      The method of claim 29 or 30, wherein the anti-inflammatory drug is efalizuma.
57.      The method of claim 29 or 30, wherein the anti-inflammatory drug is alefacept.
58.      The method of claim 29 or 30, wherein the anti-inflammatory drug is natalizumab.
59.      The method of any one of claims 1-30, wherein the drug formulation comprises a
steroid.
60.      The method of any one of claims 1-29, wherein the drug formulation comprises a
non-steroid anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID).
61.      The method of any one of claims 1-28, wherein the drug formulation comprises an
angiogenesis inhibitor.
                                             133

62.     The method of any one of claims 1-28, wherein the drug formulation comprises a
vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) antagonist.
63.     The method of claim 62, wherein the VEGF antagonist is a VEGF-receptor kinase
antagonist, an anti-VEGF antibody or fragment thereof, an anti-VEGF receptor antibody, an
anti-VEGF aptamer, a small molecule VEGF antagonist, a thiazolidinedione, a quinoline or a
designed ankyrin repeat protein (DARPin).
64.     The method of any one of claims 1-28, wherein the drug formulation comprises a
TNF-a antagonist or a TNF-a receptor antagonist.
65.     The method of any one of claims 1-28, wherein the drug formulation comprises a
platelet derived growth factor (PDGF) antagonist.
66.     The method of claim 65, wherein the PDGF antagonist is a PDGF receptor (PDGFR)
antagonist.
67.     The method of claim 66, wherein the PDGFR is PDGFR-a.
68.     The method of claim 66, wherein the PDGFR is PDGFR-P.
69.     The method of claim 62 or 63, wherein the VEGF antagonist is aflibercept, ziv
aflibercept,   bevacizumab,     ranibizumab,    lapatinib,  sunitinib,   sorafenib,   plitidepsin,
regorafenib, verteporfin, bucillamine, axitinib, pazopanib, fluocinolone acetonide, nintedanib,
AL8326, 2C3 antibody, ATOO antibody, XtendVEGF antibody, HuMax-VEGF antibody, R3
antibody, ATOO1/r84 antibody, HyBEV, ANG3070, APX003 antibody, APX004 antibody,
ponatinib, BDM-E, VGX100 antibody, VGX200, VGX300, COSMIX, DLX903/1008
antibody, ENMD2076, INDUS815C, R84 antibody, KDO19, NM3, MGCD265, MG516,
MP0260, NT503, anti-DLL4/VEGF bispecific antibody, PAN90806, Palomid 529, BDO801
antibody, XV615, lucitanib, motesanib diphosphate, AAV2-sFLTO1, soluble Fltl receptor,
cediranib,   AV-951,   Volasertib,    CEP11981,    KH903,    lenvatinib,   lenvatinib   mesylate,
terameprocol,      PF00337210,        PRS050,       SPO1,     carboxyamidotriazole        orotate,
hydroxychloroquine,    linifanib, ALG1001, AGN150998,          MP0112, AMG386, ponatinib,
                                               134

AVA10,     BMS690514, KH902, golvatinib (E7050), dovitinib lactate (TK1258, CHIR258),
ORA1O,      ORA102, Axitinib (Inlyta, AG013736), PTC299, pegaptanib sodium, troponin,
EG3306, vatalanib, BmablOO, GSK2136773, Anti-VEGFR Alterase, Avila, CEP7055,
CLT009, ESBA903, GW654652, HMPLO1O, GEM220, HYB676, JNJ17029259, TAK593,
Nova21012, Nova21013, CP564959, smart Anti-VEGF antibody, AG028262, AG13958,
CVX241,     SU14813,     PRS055, PG501, PG545, PTI101, TG100948, ICS283, XL647,
enzastaurin hydrochloride, BC194, COT601M06.1, COT604M6.2, MabionVEGF, Apatinib
or AL3818.
70.     The method of claim 64, wherein the VEGF antagonist is sorafenib.
71.     The method of claim 62, wherein the VEGF antagonist is axitinib.
72.     The method of claim 62, wherein the VEGF antagonist is aflibercept.
73.     The method of claim 62, wherein the VEGF antagonist is bevacizumab.
74.     The method of claim 62, wherein the VEGF antagonist is ranibizumab.
75.     The method of any one of claims 65-68, wherein the PDGF antagonist is an anti
PDGF aptamer, an anti-PDGF antibody or fragment thereof, an anti-PDGFR antibody or
fragment thereof, or a small molecule antagonist.
76.     The method of claim 65, wherein the PDGF antagonist is the anti-PDGF-P aptamer
E10030, sunitinib, axitinib, sorefenib, imatinib, imatinib mesylate, nintedanib, pazopanib
HCl, ponatinib , MK-2461, Dovitinib, pazopanib, crenolanib, PP-121, telatinib, imatinib,
KRN 633, CP 673451, TSU-68, Ki8751, amuvatinib, tivozanib, masitinib, motesanib
diphosphate, dovitinib dilactic acid, linifanib (ABT-869).
77.     The method of any one of claims 1-76, wherein the intraocular pressure of the eye of
the subject is substantially constant during administration of the drug formulation.
                                                135

78.      The method of any one of claims 1-77, wherein the intraocular pressure of the eye of
the subject varies by no more than about 10% during the administration.
79.      The method of any one of claims 1-78, wherein administration of the drug to the SCS
of the eye provides a decreased number of side effects, or a reduced severity of one or more
side effects, as compared to the identical dosage of the drug administered intravitreally,
intracamerally, topically, parenterally or orally.
80.      The method of any one of claims 1-79, wherein the dosage of the drug sufficient to
elicit a therapeutic response when administered to the SCS is less than the dosage of the drug
sufficient to elicit a therapeutic response when administered intravitreally, intracamerally,
topically, parenterally or orally.
81.      The method of claim 80, wherein the dosage of the drug sufficient to elicit a
therapeutic response when administered to the SCS is 75% or less of the dosage of the drug
sufficient to elicit a therapeutic response when administered intravitreally, intracamerally,
topically, parenterally or orally.
82.      The method of claim 80, wherein the dosage of the drug sufficient to elicit a
therapeutic response when administered to the SCS is 50% or less of the dosage of the drug
sufficient to elicit a therapeutic response when administered intravitreally, intracamerally,
topically, parenterally or orally.
83.      The method of claim 80, wherein the dosage of the drug sufficient to elicit a
therapeutic response when administered to the SCS is 25% or less of the dosage of the drug
sufficient to elicit a therapeutic response when administered intravitreally, intracamerally,
topically, parenterally or orally.
84.      The method of claim 80, wherein the dosage of the drug sufficient to elicit a
therapeutic response when administered to the SCS is 10% or less of the dosage of the drug
sufficient to elicit a therapeutic response when administered intravitreally, intracamerally,
topically, parenterally or orally.
                                                136

85.        The method of any one of claims 1-84, wherein the retention of the drug in the
posterior segment of the eye is greater than the retention of the drug in the posterior segment
of the eye when administered intravitreally, intracamerally, topically, parenterally or orally.
86.        The method of any one of claims 1-84, wherein the     t1 / 2 of the drug is greater than the
t 1/ 2 of the drug when administered intravitreally, intracamerally, topically, parenterally or
orally.
87.        The method of any one of claims 1-84, wherein the systemic exposure of the drug is
less than the systemic exposure of the drug when the drug is administered intravitreally,
intracamerally, topically, parenterally or orally.
88.        The method of any one of claims 1-87, wherein the intraocular Tmax of the drug is less
than the intraocular Tmax of the drug, when the same drug dose is administered intravitreally,
intracamerally, topically, parenterally or orally at the same dose.
89.        The method of claim 88, wherein the Tmax of the drug is at least 10% less than the
Tmax of the drug, when the same drug dose is administered intravitreally, intracamerally,
topically, parenterally or orally at the same dose.
90.        The method of any one of claims 1-89, wherein the intraocular Cmax of the drug is
greater than the intraocular Cmax of the drug, when the drug dose is administered
intravitreally, intracamerally, topically, parenterally or orally.
91.        The method of any one of claims 1-90, wherein the intraocular            t1 / 2 of the drug is
greater than the intraocular     t1 / 2 of the drug, when the same drug dose is administered
intravitreally, intracamerally, topically, parenterally or orally.
92.        The method of any one of claims 1-90, wherein the intraocular AUCot of the drug is
greater than the intraocular AUCot of the drug, when the same drug dose is administered
intravitreally, intracamerally, topically, parenterally or orally.
                                                  137

93.    The method of any one of claims 1-92, wherein the ocular disease is uveitis,
glaucoma, scleritis, ocular sarcoidosis, optic neuritis, macular edema, diabetic macular
edema, age related macular degeneration (AMD), diabetic retinopathy, macular degeneration,
choroidal neovascularization, corneal ulcer, ocular autoimmune disorder, or retinitis.
94.    The method of claim 93, wherein the ocular disease is uveitis.
95.    The method of claim 93, wherein the ocular disease is cytomegalovirus retinitis.
96.    The method of claim 93, wherein the ocular disease is AMD.
97.    The method of claim 96, wherein the AMD is dry AMD.
98.    The method of claim 96, wherein the ocular disease is dry AMD.
99.    The method of any one of claims              1-98, further comprising non-surgically
administering to the eye of the subject a second drug.
100.   The method of claim 99, wherein the second drug is a VEGF antagonist.
101.   The method of claim 99, wherein the second drug is a PDGF antagonist.
102.   The method of claim 99, wherein the second drug is an anti-inflammatory agent.
103.   The method of any one of claims 99-102, wherein the second drug is administered to
the suprachoroidal space (SCS) of the eye of the subject.
104.   The method of claim 103, wherein administration to the SCS of the eye of the subject
comprises:
       inserting a hollow microneedle into the sclera at an insertion site, the microneedle
having a tip end with an opening, and
       infusing the drug formulation into the SCS through the inserted microneedle.
                                              138

105.     The method of any one of claims 99-102, wherein the second drug is administered
intravitreally.
106.     The method of any one of claims 99-105, wherein the first and second drug are
administered to the subject in one sitting.
107.     The method of any one of claims 1-106, wherein the effective amount of the drug
administered to the SCS provides a higher therapeutic efficacy of the drug, compared to the
identical drug dose administered intravitreally, intracamerally, topically, parenterally or
orally.
108.     The method of any one of claims 1-107, wherein the drug dose sufficient to elicit a
therapeutic response is lower than the drug dose sufficient to elicit the same or substantially
the same therapeutic response, when the drug is administered intravitreally, intracamerally,
topically, parenterally or orally.
109.     A method for treating a choroidal malady in a human patient, the method comprising:
         non-surgically administering a drug formulation comprising an effective amount of an
anti-inflammatory drug, a vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) modulator, a platelet
derived growth factor (PDGF) modulator, an angiogenesis inhibitor, an immunosuppressive
agent, a vascular permeability inhibitor, or a combination thereof, to the suprachoroidal space
(SCS) of the eye of the patient.
110.     A method for treating a choroidal neovascularization in a human patient not properly
responsive to prior therapy for the choroidal neovascularization, the method comprising:
         non-surgically administering a drug formulation comprising an effective amount of a
anti-inflammatory drug, a vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) modulator, a platelet
derived growth factor (PDGF) modulator, an angiogenesis inhibitor, an immunosuppressive
agent, a vascular permeability inhibitor or a combination thereof, to the suprachoroidal space
(SCS) of the eye of the patient.
111.     A method for treating a human patient for a choroidal malady, not properly responsive
to prior therapy for the choroidal malady, the method comprising:
                                               139

        non-surgically administering a drug formulation comprising an effective amount of a
anti-inflammatory drug, a vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) modulator, a platelet
derived growth factor (PDGF) modulator, an angiogenesis inhibitor, an immunosuppressive
agent, a vascular permeability inhibitor, or a combination thereof, to the suprachoroidal space
(SCS) of the eye of the patient.
112.    A method for treating an ocular neovascularization in a human not properly
responsive to prior therapy for the ocular neovascularization, the method comprising:
        non-surgically administering a drug formulation comprising an effective amount of an
anti-inflammatory drug, a vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) modulator, a platelet
derived growth factor (PDGF) modulator, an angiogenesis inhibitor, an immunosuppressive
agent, a vascular permeability inhibitor, or a combination thereof, to the suprachoroidal space
(SCS) of the eye of the patient.
113.    A method for decreasing subretinal exudation and bleeding in a subject in need
thereof, the method comprising:
        non-surgically administering an effective amount of a drug formulation to the
suprachoroidal space (SCS) of the eye of the subject, wherein the drug formulation comprises
an effective amount of an anti-inflammatory drug, a vascular endothelial growth factor
(VEGF) modulator, a platelet derived growth factor (PDGF) modulator, an angiogenesis
inhibitor, an immunosuppressive agent, a vascular permeability inhibitor or a combination
thereof, to the suprachoroidal space (SCS) of the eye of the subject,
        wherein administration of the drug formulation to the SCS reduces the subretinal
exudation and bleeding experienced by the patient as compared to the identical dosage of the
drug administered intravitreally to the patient.
114.    A method for reducing edema in a subject in need thereof, the method comprising:
        non-surgically administering an effective amount of a drug formulation comprising an
effective amount of an anti-inflammatory drug, a vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)
modulator, a platelet derived growth factor (PDGF) modulator, an angiogenesis inhibitor, an
immunosuppressive agent, a vascular permeability inhibitor, or a combination thereof,
wherein administration to the SCS reduces the edema experienced by the patient as compared
to the identical dosage of the drug administered intravitreally to the patient.
                                               140

115.    A method for reducing ocular inflammation in a subject in need thereof, the method
comprising:     non-surgically administering an effective amount of a drug formulation
comprising an effective amount of an anti-inflammatory drug, a vascular endothelial growth
factor (VEGF) modulator, a platelet derived growth factor (PDGF) modulator, an
angiogenesis inhibitor, an immunosuppressive agent, a vascular permeability inhibitor, or a
combination thereof, to the suprachoroidal space (SCS) of the eye of the subject, wherein
administration of the drug formulation to the SCS reduces the ocular inflammation compared
to the identical dosage of the drug administered intravitreally to the patient.
116.    The method of anyone of claims 109-115,
        wherein upon administration, the drug formulation flows away from the insertion site.
117.    The method of anyone of claims 109-115, wherein upon administration, the drug
formulation flows away from the insertion and is substantially localized to the posterior
segment of the eye.
118.    The method of claim 109,
        wherein the choroidal malady is polyploidal choroidal vaculopathy.
119.    The method of claim 109,
        wherein the choroidal malady ocular neovascularization, polypoidal choroidal
vasculopathy, choroidal sclerosis, central sirrus choroidopathy, a multi-focal choroidopathy
or a choroidal dystrophy.
120.    The method of claim 119,
        wherein the choroidal malady is a choroidal dystrophy and the choroidal dystrophy is
central gyrate choroidal dystrophy, serpiginous choroidal dystrophy or total central choroidal
atrophy.
121.    The method of any one of claims 110-112,
        wherein the prior therapy comprises intravitreal administration of the drug
formulation.
                                              141

122.     The method of any one of claims 109-121,
         wherein prior to administration of the drug formulation, a polypoidal lesion is present
in the eye of the patient, and
         administration of the effective amount of the drug to the SCS of the patient reduces
the size of the polypoidal lesion as compared to the identical dosage of the drug administered
intravitreally.
123.     The method of any one of claims 109-121,
         wherein prior to administration of the drug formulation, polypoidal lesions of varying
sizes are present in the eye of the patient, and
         administration of the effective amount of the drug to the SCS reduces the variability
in size of the polypoidal lesions as compared to the identical dosage of the drug administered
intravitreally.
124.     The method of any one of claims 109-121,
         wherein administration of the effective amount of the drug to the SCS reduces the
vascular permeability of the eye, compared to the identical dosage of the drug administered
intravitreally.
125.     The method of claim 122,
         wherein the polypoidal lesion is present in the peripapillary area of the eye.
126.     The method of claim 123,
         wherein the one or more of the polypoidal lesions is present in the peripapillary area
of the eye.
127.     The method of claim 122,
         wherein the polypoidal lesion is present in the central macula of the eye.
128.     The method of claim 123,
         wherein the one or more of the polypoidal lesions is present in the central macula of
the eye.
                                                 142

129.    The method of any one of claims 109-128,
        wherein prior to administration of the drug formulation, dilated and branching inner
choroidal vessels of varying sizes are present in the eye of the patient, and
        administration of the effective amount of the drug to the SCS reduces the variability
in size of the inner choroidal vessels, compared to the identical dosage of the drug
administered intravitreally
130.    The method of any one of claims 109-128,
        wherein prior to administration of the drug formulation, atherosclerosis is present in
the choroidal vessels of the eye of the patient, and
        administration of the effective amount of the drug to the SCS reduces the level of
atherosclerosis of the choroidal vessels, compared to the identical dosage of the drug
administered intravitreally.
131.    The method of any one of claims 109-128,
        wherein prior to administration of the drug formulation, a choroidal vessel of the eye
of the patient is hyalinized, and
        administration of the effective amount of the drug to the SCS reduces the level of
hyalinization of the choroidal vessels, compared to the identical dosage of the drug
administered intravitreally.
132.    The method of any one of claims 109-128,
        wherein prior to administration of the drug formulation, the patient experiences a
level of subretinal bleeding, and
        administration of the effective amount of the drug to the SCS reduces the level of
subretinal bleeding, compared to the identical dosage of the drug administered intravitreally.
133.    The method of any one of claims 109-128,
        wherein the visual acuity of the patient is improved upon administration of the
effective amount of the drug to the SCS, as compared to the identical dosage of the drug
administered intravitreally.
                                                143

134.    The method of any one of claims 109-128,
        wherein prior to administration of the drug formulation, the eye of the patient
experiences recurrent neovascularization or serosanguineous, and
        administration of the effective amount of the drug to the SCS reduces the recurrent
neovascularization or serosanguineous detachments in the eye, as compared to the identical
dosage of the drug administered intravitreally.
135.    The method of any one of claims 109-128,
        wherein prior to administration of the drug formulation, a subretinal lipid deposition
is present in the eye of the patient, and
        administration of the effective amount of the drug to the SCS reduces the subretinal
lipid deposition compared to the identical dosage of the drug administered intravitreally.
136.    The method of any one of claims 109 and 118-120,
        wherein the choroidal malady affects both eyes of the subject, and
        administration of the drug formulation to the SCS is performed in both eyes.
137.    The method of any one of claims 109-136, wherein the patient has concomitant
drusen.
138.    The method of any one of claims 109-137, wherein the patient is Caucasian.
139.    The method of any one of claims 109-137, wherein the subject is of a pigmented race.
140.    The method of any one of claims 109-137, wherein the subject is African American.
141.    The method of any one of claims 109-137, wherein the subject is Asian.
142.    The method of any one of claims 109-141,
        wherein the administering step comprises inserting a hollow microneedle into the
sclera at an insertion site, the microneedle having a tip end with an opening and
        infusing the drug formulation into the SCS through the inserted microneedle.
                                               144

143.    The method of claim 142,
        wherein the insertion site is at about the equator of the eye, or between the equator
and the limbus of the eye.
144.    The method of claim 142 or 143,
        wherein the microneedle has a length of from about 500 pim and about 1500 pim.
145.    The method of claim 142 or 143,
        wherein the microneedle has a diameter of from about 200 pim to about 600 tm.
146.    The method of any one of claims 142-145,
        wherein the microneedle comprises a beveled tip.
147.    The method of claim 146,
        wherein the microneedle has a bevel angle of about 5 degrees to about 30 degrees.
148.    The method of claim 146,
        wherein the microneedle has a bevel height from about 100 pim to about 500 pim.
149.    The method of claim 146,
        wherein the beveled tip has an angle from about 10 degrees to about 20 degrees.
150.    The method of any one of claims 146-149,
        wherein the beveled tip has an aspect ratio of from about 1:1.5 to about 1:10.
151.    The method of claim 146,
        wherein the beveled tip has a height of from about 500 pim to about 1 mm.
152.    The method of any one of claims 146-15 1,
        wherein the microneedle is inserted into the sclera without penetrating through the
sclera.
153.    The method of any one of claims 146-151
                                              145

         wherein the microneedle is inserted into the sclera without penetrating through the
choroid.
154.     The method of any one of claims 146-153,
         wherein the microneedle comprises a cylindrical shaft having an outer diameter of
from about 200 microns to about 600 microns.
155.     The method of any one of claims -109-154,
         wherein the drug formulation is has a volume of from about 10 piL to about 200 [iL.
156.     The method of any one of claims 109-154,
         wherein the drug formulation is has a volume of from about 30 piL to about 100 [iL
157.     The method of any one of claims 109-156,
         wherein the microneedle is inserted into the surface of the sclera at an angle of from
about 70 degrees to about 110 degrees.
158.     The method of any one of claims 109-154,
         wherein the microneedle is inserted into the surface of the sclera at an angle of about
90 degrees.
159.     The method of any one of claims 109-158,
         wherein administration of the drug formulation to the SCS results in a decreased
number of side effects experienced by the patient, or a reduced severity of a side effect
experienced by the patient, compared to the identical dosage of the drug administered
intravitreally.
160.     The method of claim 159,
         wherein administration of the drug formulation to the SCS results in a decreased
number of side effects experienced by the patient, compared to the number of side effects
experienced by the patient when the identical dosage of the drug is administered
intravitreally.
                                               146

161.     The method of claim 159,
         wherein administration of the drug formulation to the SCS results in a reduced
severity of a side effect experienced by the patient, compared to the severity of the side effect
experienced by the patient when the identical dosage of the drug is administered
intravitreally.
162.     The method of any one of claims 109-161,
         wherein the dosage of the drug sufficient to elicit a therapeutic response in the patient,
when administered to the SCS, is less than the dosage of the drug sufficient to elicit a
therapeutic response in the patient, when administered intravitreally.
163.     The method of claim 162,
         wherein the dosage of the drug sufficient to elicit a therapeutic response when
administered to the SCS is 75% or less of the dosage of the drug sufficient to elicit a
therapeutic response when administered intravitreally.
164.     The method of claim 162,
         wherein the dosage of the drug sufficient to elicit a therapeutic response when
administered to the SCS is 50% or less of the dosage of the drug sufficient to elicit a
therapeutic response when administered intravitreally.
165.     The method of claim 162,
         wherein the dosage of the drug sufficient to elicit a therapeutic response when
administered to the SCS of the patient is 25% or less of the dosage of the drug sufficient to
elicit a therapeutic response when administered intravitreally to the patient.
166.     The method of claim 162,
         wherein the dosage of the drug sufficient to elicit a therapeutic response when
administered to the SCS of the patient is 10% or less of the dosage of the drug sufficient to
elicit a therapeutic response when administered intravitreally to the patient.
167.     The method of claim 117,
                                               147

         wherein the retention of the drug in the posterior segment of the eye is greater than the
retention of the drug in the posterior segment of the eye when administered intravitreally.
168.     The method of any one of claims 109-167,
         wherein the intraocular     t 1 /2 of the drug administered to the SCS is greater than the
intraocular  t1 / 2 of the drug when administered intravitreally.
169.     The method of any one of claims 109-168,
         wherein the systemic exposure of the drug administered to the SCS is less than the
systemic exposure of the drug when the drug is administered intravitreally.
170.     The method of any one of claims 109-169,
         further comprising subjecting the patient to at least one additional therapy selected
from    the group         consisting of photodynamic       therapy,   laser photocoagulation,   and
transpupillary thermotherapy.
171.     The method of any one of claims 109-170-,
         wherein the patient has an additional macular abnormality, and wherein the patient is
treated for the one or more additional macular abnormalities by administering an effective
amount of a second drug formulation to the SCS of the eye.
172.     The method of claim 171,
         wherein the additional macular abnormality is sickle cell retinopathy, central serous
chorioretinopathy, typical neovascular (type 1 or 2) age-related macular degeneration,
melanocytoma of the optic nerve, circumscribed choroidal hemangioma, the tilted disk
syndrome, pathological myopia, or choroidal osteoma.
173.     The method of any one of claims -109-172, wherein the drug formulation comprises
an effective amount of a VEGF modulator.
174.     The method of claim 173,
         wherein the VEGF modulator is a VEGF antagonist selected from the group
consisting of a VEGF-receptor kinase antagonist, an anti-VEGF antibody or fragment
                                                     148

thereof, an anti-VEGF receptor antibody, an anti- VEGF aptamer, a small molecule VEGF
antagonist, a thiazolidinedione, a quinoline and a designed ankyrin repeat protein (DARPin).
175.    The method of claim 173,
        wherein the VEGF modulator is a VEGF antagonist selected from the group
consisting of a VEGF-receptor kinase antagonist, an anti-VEGF antibody or fragment
thereof, an anti-VEGF receptor antibody, an anti- VEGF aptamer, a small molecule VEGF
antagonist, a thiazolidinedione, a quinoline and a designed ankyrin repeat protein (DARPin).
176.    The method of claim 173,
        wherein the VEGF modulator is a VEGF antagonist selected from the group
consisting    of   aflibercept,     zivaflibercept,    bevacizumab,     ranibizumab,     vandetanib,
cabozantinib,    ponatinib,     ziv-afibercept,    lapatinib,  sunitinib,   sorafenib,   plitidepsin,
regorafenib, verteporfin, bucillamine, axitinib, pazopanib, fluocinolone acetonide, nintedanib,
AL8326, 2C3 antibody, ATO           antibody, XtendVEGF antibody, HuMax-VEGF antibody, R3
antibody, ATOO1/r84 antibody, HyBEV, ANG3070, APX003 antibody, APX004 antibody,
ponatinib, BDM-E, VGX100 antibody, VGX200, VGX300, COSMIX, DLX903/1008
antibody, ENMD2076, INDUS815C, R84 antibody, KDO19, NM3, MGCD265, MG516,
MP0260, NT503, anti-DLL4/VEGF bispecific antibody, PAN90806, Palomid 529, BDO801
antibody, XV615, lucitanib, motesanib diphosphate, AAV2-sFLTO1, soluble Fltl receptor,
cediranib,   AV-951,Volasertib,       CEP11981,       KH903,    lenvatinib,   lenvatinib   mesylate,
terameprocol,       PF00337210,PRS050,               SPO 1,     carboxyamidotriazole         orotate,
hydroxychloroquine,      linifanib,   ALG1001,AGN150998,          MP0112,     AMG386,     AVA101,
BMS690514, KH902, golvatinib (E7050), dovitinib lactate (TK1258, CHIR258), ORA1O,
ORA102, Axitinib (Inlyta, AG013736), PTC299, pegaptanib sodium, troponin, EG3306,
vatalanib, BmablOO, GSK2136773, Anti-VEGFR Alterase, Avila, CEP7055, CLT009,
ESBA903,      GW654652,        HMPLG10,        GEM220,       HYB676,      JNJ17029259,     TAK593,
Nova21012, Nova21013, CP564959,smart Anti-VEGF antibody, AG028262, AG13958,
CVX241,     SU14813,      PRS055,      PG501,PG545,       PTI101,  TG100948,      ICS283,    XL647,
enzastaurin hydrochloride, BC194, COT601M06.1, COT604M06.2, MabionVEGF, Apatinib
and AL3818.
177.    The method of any one of claims -109-172,
                                                 149

        wherein the drug formulation comprises an effective amount of an angiogenesis
inhibitor.
178.    The method of claim 177, wherein the angiogenesis inhibitor is angiopoietin-1,
angiopoietin-2, angiostatin, endostatin, vasostatin, thrombospondin, calreticulin, platelet
factor-4, TIMP, CDAI, interferon a, interferon P,vascular endothelial growth factor inhibitor
(VEGI) meth-1, meth-2, prolactin, VEGI, SPARC, osteopontin, maspin, canstatin, proliferin
related protein (PRP), restin, TSP-i, TSP-2, interferon gamma 13, ACUHTR028, aV35,
aminobenzoate     potassium,   amyloid P, ANG1122,        ANG1170,     ANG3062,     ANG3281,
ANG3298, ANG4011, anti-CTGF RNAi, Aplidin, astragalus membranaceus extract with
salvia and schisandra chinensis, atherosclerotic plaque blocker, Azol, AZX100, BB3,
connective tissue growth factor antibody, CT140, danazol, Esbriet, EXCOO,             EXCO02,
EXCO03, EXCO04, EXCO05, F647, FG3019, Fibrocorin, Follistatin, FTO11, a galectin-3
inhibitor, GKT137831, GMCTO1, GMCT02, GRMDO1, GRMD02, GRN510, Heberon Alfa
R, interferon a-20, ITMN520, JKB119, JKB121,             JKB122, KRX168, LPA1 receptor
antagonist, MGN4220,       MIA2, microRNA      29a oligonucleotide,     MMI0100, noscapine,
PB14050,    PB14419,    PDGFR     inhibitor, PF-06473871,    PGN0052,      Pirespa,   Pirfenex,
pirfenidone, plitidepsin, PRM 151, Px 102, PYN 17, PYN22 with PYN 17, Relivergen, rhPTX2
fusion protein, RXI109, secretin, STX100, TGF-P Inhibitor, transforming growth factor, P
receptor 2 oligonucleotide,VA999260 or XV615.
179.    The method of any one of claims 109-172,
        wherein the drug formulation comprises an effective amount of an anti-inflammatory
drug.
180.    The method of claim 179,
        wherein the anti-inflammatory drug is a steroidal compound.
181.    The method of claim 180,
        wherein the steroidal compound is hydrocortisone, hydrocortisone-17-butyrate,
hydrocortisone-17-aceponate,    hydrocortisone-17-buteprate,  cortisone, tixocortol pivalate,
prednisolone, methylprednisolone,     prednisone, triamcinolone,    triamcinolone    acetonide,
mometasone, amcinonide, budesonide, desonide, fluocinonide, halcinonide, bethamethasone,
                                             150

bethamethasone dipropionate, dexamethasone, fluocortolone, hydrocortisone-17-valerate,
halometasone,     alclometasone     dipropionate,     prednicarbate,  clobetasone- 1 7-butyrate,
clobetasol-17-propionate,   fluocortolone    caproate,  fluocortolone pivalate, fluprednidene
acetate or prednicarbate.
182.    The method of claim 181,
        wherein the steroidal compound is triamcinolone, triamcinolone           acetonide or
dexamethasone.
183.    The method of claim 179,
        wherein the anti-inflammatory drug is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory            drug
(NSAID).
184.    The method of claim 183,
        wherein the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) is a salicylate.
185.    The method of claim 183,
        wherein the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) is a propionic acid
derivative.
186.    The method of claim 183,
        wherein the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID)           is an acetic acid
derivative.
187.    The method of claim 183,
        wherein the non-steroidal     anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID)       is an enolic acid
derivative.
188.    The method of claim 183,
        wherein the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) is a fenamic acid
derivative.
189.    The method of claim 183,
                                               151

        wherein the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) is a cyclooxygenase-2
(COX-2) inhibitor.
190.    The method of claim 183 or 184,
        wherein the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) is acetylsalicylic acid,
diflunisal or salsalate.
191.    The method of claim 183 or 185,
        wherein     the  non-steroidal   anti-inflammatory   drug (NSAID)   is  ibuprofen,
dexibuprofen, naproxen, fenoprofen, keotoprofen, dexketoprofen, flurbiprofen, oxaprozin or
loxaprofen.
192.    The method of claim 183 or 186,
        wherein the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) is indomethacin, tolmetin,
sulindac, etodolac, ketorolac, diclofenac or nabumetone.
193.    The method of claim 183 or 187,
        wherein the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) is piroxicam, meloxicam,
tenoxicam, droxicam, lornoxicam or isoxicam.
194.    The method of claim 183 or 188,
        wherein the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) is mefanamic acid,
meclofenamic acid, flufenamic acid or tolfenamic acid.
195.    The method of claim 183 or 189,
        wherein the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) is celecoxib, refecoxib,
valdecoxib, parecoxib, lumiracoxib, etoricoxib or firocoxib.
196.    The method of any one of claims 109-172,
        wherein the drug formulation comprises an effective amount of a platelet derived
growth factor (PDGF) modulator.
197.    The method of claim 196,
                                               152

        wherein the platelet derived growth factor (PDGF) modulator is a PDGF antagonist.
198.    The method of claim 197,
        wherein the platelet derived growth factor (PDGF) antagonist is a PDGF-receptor
antagonist, an anti-PDGF antibody or fragment thereof, an anti- PDGF receptor antibody or
fragment thereof, an anti-PDGF aptamer or a small molecule PDGF antagonist.
199.    The method of claim 197,
        wherein the platelet derived growth factor (PDGF) antagonist is an antagonist of the
PDGF receptor-a (PDGFR-a) or PDGF receptor-3 (PDGFR-P).
200.    The method of claim 197,
        wherein the PDGF antagonist is the anti-PDGF-P aptamer E10030, sunitinib, axitinib,
sorefenib, imatinib, imatinib mesylate, nintedanib, pazopanib HCl, ponatinib, MK-2461,
dovitinib, pazopanib, crenolanib, PP-121, telatinib, imatinib, KRN 633, CP 673451, TSU-68,
Ki8751, amuvatinib, tivozanib, masitinib, motesanib diphosphate, dovitinib dilactic acid or
linifanib (ABT-869).
201.    The method of any one of claims 109-172,
        wherein     the   drug   formulation     comprises    an   effective   amount    of  an
immunosuppressive agent.
202.    The method of claim 201,
        wherein the immunosuppressive         agent is a glucocorticoid, cytokine inhibitor,
cytostatic, alkylating agent, anti-metabolite, folic acid analogue, cytotoxic antibiotic,
interferon, opioid, T-cell receptor directed antibody or an IL-2 receptor directed antibody.
203.    The method of claim 202,
        wherein the anti-metabolite is a purine analog, pyrimidine analogue, folic acid
analogue or a protein synthesis inhibitor.
204.    The method of claim 201,
        wherein the immunosuppressive agent is an interleukin-2 inhibitor.
                                               153

205.    The method of claim 201,
        wherein     the  immunosuppressive       agent   is   cyclophosphamide,     nitrosourea,
methotrexate,    azathioprine, mercaptopurine,     fluorouracil,  dactinomycin,   anthracycline,
mitomycin     C,   bleomycin,   mithramycin,    muromonab-CD3,       cyclosporine,   tacrolimus,
sirolimus or mycophenolate.
206.    The method of claim 204,
        wherein the interleukin-2 inhibitor is basiliximab or daclizumab
207.    The method of claim 203 or 205,
        wherein the immunosuppressive agent is mycophenolate.
208.    The method of any one of claims 109-172,
wherein the drug formulation comprises an effective amount of a vascular permeability
inhibitor.
209.    The method of claim 208,
        wherein the vascular permeability inhibitor is a vascular endothelial growth factor
(VEGF) antagonist or an angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor.
210.    The method of claim 209,
        wherein the vascular permeability inhibitor is an angiotensin converting enzyme
(ACE) inhibitor and the ACE inhibitor is captopril.
211.    A method for treating or preventing polypoidal choroidal vasculopathy (PCV) in a
patient, the method comprising:
        administering to the eye of the patient an effective amount of an interfering RNA
molecule targeting a gene selected from the group consisting of HTRA1, CFH, elastin, and
ARMS2, such that the expression of the targeted gene is downregulated upon administration
of the interfering RNA, and
        wherein the administering step comprises:
                                               154

        inserting a hollow microneedle into the sclera at an insertion site, the microneedle
having a tip end with an opening, and
        infusing the interfering RNA molecule into the SCS through the inserted microneedle.
212.    The method of claim 211,
        wherein the interfering RNA molecule is an siRNA, miRNA, or shRNA.
213.    The method of claim 211 or 212,
        wherein the targeted gene is CFH, and wherein the interfering RNA molecule targets
a polymorphism selected from the group consisting of rs3753394, rs800292, rs3753394,
rs6680396, rs1410996, rs2284664, rs1329428, and rs1065489.
214.    The method of any one of claims 109-213,
        further comprising administering a photosensitizer to the patient.
215.    The method of claim 214, wherein the photosensitizer is verteporfin.
216.    A method of diagnosing a patient for a choroidal malady, comprising:
        administering a choroidal malady diagnostic agent to the SCS of one or both eyes of
the patient,
        visualizing the diagnostic agent, and
        making a determination based on the visualization whether the patient has the
choroidal malady.
217.    The method of claim 216,
        wherein the diagnostic agent is delivered to the SCS of one or both eyes of the patient
via a hollow microneedle comprising a tip and an opening.
218.    A method of administering a triamcinolone composition to an eye of a patient,
comprising:
        (a) inserting a hollow microneedle into the eye at an insertion site, the microneedle
having a tip end with an opening;
        (b) applying a selected pressure to the triamcinolone composition, which comprises
                                               155

triamcinolone microparticles, to induce infusion of the triamcinolone composition through
the
inserted microneedle;
        (c)   determining whether the triamcinolone composition has flowed into the
suprachoroidal space of the eye and away from the insertion site;
        (d) if the determination in step (c) is that the triamcinolone composition has flowed
into the suprachoroidal space away from the insertion site, then infusing a selected volume of
the
triamcinolone composition and thereupon removing the pressure, or if the determination in
step
(c) is that substantially none of the triamcinolone composition has flowed into the
suprachoroidal
space away from the insertion site, then repositioning the inserted microneedle and repeating
steps (b)-(d) until a selected volume of the triamcinolone composition has been infused; and
        (e) retracting the microneedle from the eye.
219.    The method of claim 218,
        wherein the triamcinolone is triamcinolone acetonide.
220.    The method of claim 219,
        wherein the composition comprises nanoparticles.
221.    The method of claim 219 or 220,
        wherein the composition comprises microparticles.
222.     The method of claim 221,
        wherein the microparticles have a D50 of 2 im or less.
223.    The method of claim 221 or 222,
        wherein the microparticles have a D99 of less than 10 pim.
224.    The method of any one of claims 219-223,
        wherein the triamcinolone is present in the composition at about 40 mg/mL.
                                                156

225.    The method of any one of claims 219-223, wherein the drug formulation further
comprises sodium chloride.
226.    The method of any one of claims 219-223, wherein the drug formulation further
comprises carboxymethylcellulose sodium.
227.    The method of any one of claims 219-223,
        wherein the drug formulation further comprises polysorbate 80.
228.    The method of any one of claims 219-223,
        wherein the drug formulation further comprises CaCl 2, MgCl 2 , sodium acetate,
sodium citrate, or a combination thereof.
229.    A pharmaceutical composition comprising triamcinolone particles having a D5 0 of less
than 3 pim.
230. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 229,
        wherein the triamcinolone is present in the composition at 40 mg/mL.
231.    The pharmaceutical composition of claim 229 or 230,
        wherein the D90 of the particles is less than or equal to 10 pim.
232.    The pharmaceutical composition of claim 231,
        wherein the D90 of the particles is less than 10 pim.
233.    The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 229-232, further comprising
polysorbate 80.
234.    The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 229-233, further comprising
carboxymethylcellulose sodium.
                                                157

235.    The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 229-234, further comprising
one or more of CaCl 2, MgCl 2 , KCl, sodium acetate, sodium citrate.
236.    The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 229-235, wherein the pH of the
composition is from about 6.0 to about 7.5.
237.    The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 229-236, wherein the D50 of
the particles is about 2 tim.
238.    The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 229-237, wherein the D50 of
the particles is less than about 2 tim.
239.    The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 229-238, wherein the D50 of
the particles is less than about 1 tim.
240. The pharmaceutical        composition of any one of claims 229-239, wherein the
triamcinolone is triamcinolone acetonide.
                                        Clearside Biomedical, Inc.
                         Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                        SPRUSON & FERGUSON
                                              158

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
