                                    ABSTRACT
       Ultrasonic probes containing a plurality of gas delivery channels are
disclosed, as well as ultrasonic probes containing recessed areas near the tip of
the probe. Ultrasonic devices containing these probes, and methods for molten
metal degassing using these ultrasonic devices, also are disclosed.
                                          - 53  -

                            1/9
         i
     II'I II'
     II I II
     11111
     II I II
     1111!                                                         /
     11111
     D D                                                       / /
     DM1                                                     /          1
  \  11111
          I II
     II11111   '                                          I 1
                                                                     /'7
                                                        /
     II I II
     DID
     DM1                                      //
                                                   /   I
                                                               $
     II III
     DIII
     DIII        S             K         /
                                           /                /
                                                              /
                                    /                 /
                                                          /
                                 1
                                  /               '1
                                                     /
                               1                  1
     DM1                     I                  /
                         //
     DIII                   1                 /
p    DID                                    /
     H    'II
                                       A
                                       I'
                                         41'
     II ~              I             I
                                   /
     DIII
     11111
     DID
                   / /
                            /    I
     11111
     11111                V
     DID
     DIII
     DI II
   \ DID

                                         TITLE
                 ULTRASONIC PROBES WITH GAS OUTLETS FOR
                         DEGASSING OF MOLTEN METALS
                     REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
         [001] This application relates to an application filed on November 17,
2014, as a PCT International Patent application and claims priority to U.S. Patent
Application Serial No. 61/905,408 filed on November 18, 2013, the disclosure of
which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
         [002] The present application is divided from Australian patent application
No. 2014348343, the content of which is incorporated herein in its entirety by
reference.
                                   BACKGROUND
         [003] Each document, reference, patent application or patent cited in this
text is expressly incorporated herein in their entirety by reference, which means
that it should be read and considered by the reader as part of this text. That the
document, reference, patent application or patent cited in this text is not repeated
in this text is merely for reasons of conciseness.
         [004] The following discussion of the background to the invention is
intended to facilitate an understanding of the present invention only. It should be
appreciated that the discussion is not an acknowledgement or admission that any
of the material referred to was published, known or part of the common general
knowledge of the person skilled in the art in any jurisdiction as at the priority date
of the invention.
                                             -1 -

        [005] The processing or casting of certain metal articles may require a
bath containing a molten metal, and this bath of molten metal may be maintained
at a temperature in a range of 700 0 C to 1200 0C, or more, depending upon the
particular metal. Many instruments or devices may be used in the molten metal
bath for the production or casting of the desired metal article. There is a need for
these instruments or devices to better withstand the elevated temperatures
encountered in the molten metal bath, beneficially having a longer lifetime and
limited to no reactivity with the particular molten metal.
        [006] Moreover, molten metals may have one or more gasses dissolved in
them and/or impurities present in them, and these gasses and/or impurities may
negatively impact the final production and casting of the desired metal article,
and/or the resulting physical properties of the metal article itself. Attempts to
reduce the amounts of dissolved gasses or impurities present in molten metal
baths have not been completely successful. Accordingly, there is a need for
improved devices and methods to remove gasses and/or impurities from molten
metals.
                                       SUMMARY
        [007] This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a
simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This
summary is not intended to identify required or essential features of the claimed
subject matter. Nor is this summary intended to be used to limit the scope of the
claimed subject matter.
        [008] According to a first principal aspect, there is provided an ultrasonic
device comprising:
                                              -2-

        an ultrasonic transducer;
        an ultrasonic probe attached to the transducer, the probe comprising a tip,
a gas delivery channel extending through the probe, and a recessed region near
the tip of the probe; and
                a gas delivery system, the gas delivery system comprising:
                       a gas inlet,
                       a gas flow path through the gas delivery channel, and
                       a gas outlet at or near the tip of the probe.
        [009] Optionally, the probe comprises stainless steel, titanium, niobium, a
ceramic, or a combination thereof.
        [010] Optionally, a diameter of the recessed region is from about 75 to
about 85% of the diameter of the probe.
        [011] Optionally, the ultrasonic device further comprises a gas outlet in a
recessed region.
        [012]    Optionally, the probe comprises a ceramic;
        the probe comprises from two to five recessed regions; and
        at least one gas outlet is at the tip of the probe.
        [013]    Optionally, the probe is a generally cylindrical elongated probe,
and a ratio of a total length of the recessed regions to a length of the elongated
probe is in a range from about 10:1 to about 100:1.
        [014] Optionally, the probe is a generally cylindrical elongated probe, and
a length to diameter ratio of the elongated probe is in a range from about 5:1 to
about 25:1; and
        a ratio of the cross-sectional area of the tip of the elongated probe to the
cross-sectional area of the gas delivery channel is in a range from about 30:1 to
about 1000:1.
        [015]    Optionally, the ultrasonic device further comprises a booster
between the transducer and the probe, and the gas inlet is in the booster.
                                               -3-

        [016] Optionally, the probe comprises a Sialon, a Silicon carbide, a Boron
carbide, a Boron nitride, a Silicon nitride, an Aluminum nitride, an Aluminum
oxide, a Zirconia, or a combination thereof.
        [017] Optionally, the recessed region is within about 2 cm of the tip of the
probe.
        [018] Optionally, the ultrasonic device comprises from two to eight
ultrasonic probes.
        [019] According to a second principal aspect, there is provided a method
for reducing an amount of a dissolved gas and/or an impurity in a molten metal
bath, the method comprising:
        (a)    operating an ultrasonic device according to any embodiment of an
ultrasonic device arranged in accordance with the ultrasonic device of the first
principal aspect, or as described herein in the molten metal bath; and
        (b)    introducing a purging gas into the gas delivery system, through the
gas delivery channel, and into the molten metal bath at a rate for each ultrasonic
probe in a range from about 0.1 to about 150 L/min.
        [020] Optionally, the purging gas is introduced into the molten metal bath
at a rate for each ultrasonic probe in a range from about 1 to about 50 L/min;
       the dissolved gas comprises oxygen, hydrogen, sulfur dioxide, or a
combination thereof;
       the impurity comprises an alkali metal;
       the molten metal bath comprises aluminum, copper, zinc, steel,
magnesium, or a combination thereof;
       the purging gas comprises nitrogen, helium, neon, argon, krypton, xenon,
SF6 , chlorine, or a combination thereof; or
        any combination thereof.
        [021] Optionally, the impurity comprises sodium, and an amount of
sodium in the molten metal bath is reduced to less than 1 ppm; and/or
        an amount of total inclusions in the molten metal bath is reduced by at
least about 50 wt. %.
        [022] Optionally, the method comprises operating from two to sixteen
ultrasonic devices in the molten metal bath.
                                              -4-

        [023] The present invention is directed to methods for reducing the
amount of a dissolved gas (and/or various impurities) in a molten metal bath (e.g.,
ultrasonic degassing). In one embodiment, the method may comprise operating
an ultrasonic device in the molten metal bath, and introducing a purging gas into
the molten metal bath in close proximity to the ultrasonic device. For example,
the dissolved gas may comprise hydrogen, the molten metal bath may comprise
aluminum or copper (including alloys thereof), and the purging gas may comprise
argon and/or nitrogen. The purging gas may be added to the molten metal bath
within about 50 cm (or 25 cm, or 15 cm, or 5 cm, or 2 cm), or through a tip, of the
ultrasonic device. The purging gas may be added or introduced into the molten
metal bath at a rate in a range from about 0.1 to about 150 L/min per ultrasonic
probe, or additionally or alternatively, at a rate in a range from about 10 to about
500 mL/hr of purging gas per kg/hr of output from the molten metal bath.
        [024] The present invention also discloses ultrasonic devices, and these
ultrasonic devices may be used in many different applications, including ultrasonic
degassing and grain refining. As an example, the ultrasonic device may comprise
an ultrasonic transducer; a probe attached to the ultrasonic transducer, the probe
comprising a tip; and a gas delivery system, the gas delivery system comprising a
gas inlet, a gas flow path through the probe, and a gas outlet at or near the tip of
the probe. In an embodiment, the probe may be an elongated probe comprising
a first end and a second end, the first end attached to the ultrasonic transducer
and the second end comprising a tip. Moreover, the probe may comprise
stainless steel, titanium, niobium, a ceramic, and the like, or a combination of any
of these materials. In another embodiment, the ultrasonic probe may be a unitary
Sialon probe with the integrated gas delivery system therethrough. In yet another
                                              -5-

embodiment, the ultrasonic device may comprise multiple probe assemblies
and/or multiple probes per ultrasonic transducer.
        [025] In one embodiment of this invention, the ultrasonic probe may
comprise two or more gas delivery channels extending through the probe and
exiting at or near the tip of the probe (e.g., within about 25 cm or about 20 cm of
the tip of the probe; alternatively, within about 15 cm, within about 10 cm, within
about 5 cm, within about 2 cm, or within about 1 cm, of the tip of the probe; or
alternatively, at the tip of the probe). In another embodiment of this invention, the
ultrasonic probe may comprise a gas delivery channel extending through the
probe and exiting at or near the tip of the probe, and further, may comprise a
recessed region near the tip of the probe.
        [026] Both the foregoing summary and the following detailed description
provide examples and are explanatory only. Accordingly, the foregoing summary
and the following detailed description should not be considered to be restrictive.
Further, features or variations may be provided in addition to those set forth
herein. For example, certain embodiments may be directed to various feature
combinations and sub-combinations described in the detailed description.
                     BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        [027] The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and
constitute a part of this disclosure, illustrate various embodiments of the present
invention. In the drawings:
        [028] FIG. 1A shows a partial cross-sectional view of an ultrasonic probe
with multiple gas channels in an embodiment of the present invention.
        [029] FIG. 1B is a perspective view of the ultrasonic probe of FIG. 1A.
                                               -6-

       [030] FIG. 1C shows a partial cross-sectional view of an ultrasonic device
using the ultrasonic probe of FIG. 1A.
       [031] FIG. 1D shows a close-up view of the interface between the
ultrasonic probe and the booster of the ultrasonic probe and device of FIGS. 1A
1C.
       [032] FIG. 2A shows a partial cross-sectional view of an ultrasonic probe
with recessed regions in an embodiment of the present invention.
       [033] FIG. 2B is a perspective view of the ultrasonic probe of FIG. 2A.
       [034] FIG. 3 shows a partial cross-sectional view of an ultrasonic device in
an embodiment of the present invention.
       [035] FIG. 4 shows a partial cross-sectional view of an ultrasonic device in
another embodiment of the present invention.
       [036] FIG. 5 shows a partial cross-sectional view of an ultrasonic device in
another embodiment of the present invention.
       [037] FIG. 6 shows a partial cross-sectional view of an ultrasonic device in
another embodiment of the present invention.
       [038] FIG. 7A shows a partial cross-sectional view of an ultrasonic probe
with a single gas channel in an embodiment of the present invention.
       [039] FIG. 7B is a perspective view of the ultrasonic probe of FIG. 7A.
       [040] FIG. 8 is a plot of hydrogen concentration as a function of time for
Examples 1-4.
                            DETAILED DESCRIPTION
       [041] The following detailed description refers to the accompanying
drawings. Wherever possible, the same or similar reference numbers are used in
                                           -7-

the drawings and the following description to refer to the same or similar
elements. While embodiments of the invention may be described, modifications,
adaptations, and other implementations are possible. For example, substitutions,
additions, or modifications may be made to the elements illustrated in the
drawings, and the methods described herein may be modified by substituting,
reordering, or adding stages to the disclosed methods. Accordingly, the following
detailed description does not limit the scope of the invention.
        [042] The terms "a," "an," and "the" are intended to include plural
alternatives, e.g., at least one. For instance, the disclosure of "an ultrasonic
device," "an elongated probe," "a purging gas," etc., is meant to encompass one,
or combinations of more than one, ultrasonic device (e.g., one or two or more
ultrasonic devices), elongated probe (e.g., one or two or more elongated probes),
purging gas (e.g., one or two or more purging gasses), etc., unless otherwise
specified.
        [043] All publications and patents mentioned herein are incorporated
herein by reference for the purpose of describing and disclosing, for example, the
constructs and methodologies that are described in the publications, which might
be used in connection with the presently described invention. The publications
discussed throughout the text are provided solely for their disclosure prior to the
filing date of the present application. Nothing herein is to be construed as an
admission that the inventors are not entitled to antedate such disclosure by virtue
of prior invention.
        [044] Applicant discloses several types of ranges in the present invention.
 When Applicant discloses or claims a range of any type, Applicant's intent is to
disclose or claim individually each possible number that such a range could
                                            -8-

reasonably encompass, including end points of the range as well as any sub
ranges and combinations of sub-ranges encompassed therein. For example, in
an embodiment of the invention, the purging gas may be added to the molten
metal bath at a rate in a range from about 1 to about 50 L/min per ultrasonic
probe. By a disclosure that the flow rate is in a range from about 1 to about 50
L/min, Applicant intends to recite that the flow rate may be any flow rate in the
range and, for example, may be about 1, about 2, about 3, about 4, about 5,
about 6, about 7, about 8, about 9, about 10, about 11, about 12, about 13, about
14, about 15, about 16, about 17, about 18, about 19, about 20, about 21, about
22, about 23, about 24, about 25, about 26, about 27, about 28, about 29, about
30, about 31, about 32, about 33, about 34, about 35, about 36, about 37, about
38, about 39, about 40, about 41, about 42, about 43, about 44, about 45, about
46, about 47, about 48, about 49, or about 50 L/min. Additionally, the flow rate
may be within any range from about 1 to about 50 L/min (for example, the rate is
in a range from about 2 to about 20 L/min), and this also includes any
combination of ranges between about 1 and about 50 L/min. Likewise, all other
ranges disclosed herein should be interpreted in a similar manner.
       [045] Embodiments of the present invention may provide systems,
methods, and/or devices for the ultrasonic degassing of molten metals. Such
molten metals may include, but are not limited to, aluminum, copper, steel, zinc,
magnesium, and the like, or combinations of these and other metals (e.g., alloys).
 Accordingly, the present invention is not limited to any particular metal or metal
alloy. The processing or casting of articles from a molten metal may require a
bath containing the molten metal, and this bath of the molten metal may be
maintained at elevated temperatures. For instance, molten copper may be
                                             -9-

maintained at temperatures of around 1100 0C, while molten aluminum may be
maintained at temperatures of around 750 0C.
        [046] As used herein, the terms "bath," "molten metal bath," and the like
are meant to encompass any container that might contain a molten metal,
inclusive of vessel, crucible, trough, launder, furnace, ladle, and so forth. The
bath and molten metal bath terms are used to encompass batch, continuous,
semi-continuous, etc., operations and, for instance, where the molten metal is
generally static (e.g., often associated with a crucible) and where the molten
metal is generally in motion (e.g., often associated with a launder).
        [047] Many instruments or devices may be used to monitor, to test, or to
modify the conditions of the molten metal in the bath, as well as for the final
production or casting of the desired metal article. There is a need for these
instruments or devices to better withstand the elevated temperatures encountered
in molten metal baths, beneficially having a longer lifetime and limited to no
reactivity with the molten metal, whether the metal is (or the metal comprises)
aluminum, or copper, or steel, or zinc, or magnesium, and so forth.
        [048] Furthermore, molten metals may have one or more gasses
dissolved in them, and these gasses may negatively impact the final production
and casting of the desired metal article, and/or the resulting physical properties of
the metal article itself. For instance, the gas dissolved in the molten metal may
comprise hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, sulfur dioxide, and the like, or combinations
thereof. In some circumstances, it may be advantageous to remove the gas, or to
reduce the amount of the gas in the molten metal. As an example, dissolved
hydrogen may be detrimental in the casting of aluminum (or copper, or other
metal or alloy) and, therefore, the properties of finished articles produced from
                                             - 10-

aluminum (or copper, or other metal or alloy) may be improved by reducing the
amount of entrained hydrogen in the molten bath of aluminum (or copper, or other
metal or alloy). Dissolved hydrogen over 0.2 ppm, over 0.3 ppm, or over 0.5 ppm,
on a mass basis, may have detrimental effects on the casting rates and the
quality of resulting aluminum (or copper, or other metal or alloy) rods and other
articles. Hydrogen may enter the molten aluminum (or copper, or other metal or
alloy) bath by its presence in the atmosphere above the bath containing the
molten aluminum (or copper, or other metal or alloy), or it may be present in
aluminum (or copper, or other metal or alloy) feedstock starting material used in
the molten aluminum (or copper, or other metal or alloy) bath.
        [049] Attempts to reduce the amounts of dissolved gasses in molten metal
baths have not been completely successful. Often, these processes involve
additional and expensive equipment, as well as potentially hazardous materials.
For instance, a process used in the metal casting industry to reduce the dissolved
gas content of a molten metal may consist of rotors made of a material such as
graphite, and these rotors may be placed within the molten metal bath. Chlorine
gas additionally may be added to the molten metal bath at positions adjacent to
the rotors within the molten metal bath. This process will be referred to as the
"conventional" process throughout this disclosure, and is often referred to in the
industry as rotary gas purging. While the conventional process may be
successful in reducing, for example, the amount of dissolved hydrogen in a
molten metal bath in some situations, this conventional process has noticeable
drawbacks, not the least of which are cost, complexity, and the use of potentially
hazardous and potentially environmentally harmful chlorine gas.
                                          - 11 -

        [050] Additionally, molten metals may have impurities present in them,
and these impurities may negatively impact the final production and casting of the
desired metal article, and/or the resulting physical properties of the metal article
itself. For instance, the impurity in the molten metal may comprise an alkali metal
or other metal that is neither required nor desired to be present in the molten
metal. As one of skill in the art would recognize, small percentages of certain
metals are present in various metal alloys, and such metals would not be
considered to be impurities. As non-limiting examples, impurities may comprise
lithium, sodium, potassium, lead, and the like, or combinations thereof. Various
impurities may enter a molten metal bath (aluminum, copper, or other metal or
alloy) by their presence in the incoming metal feedstock starting material used in
the molten metal bath. In certain embodiments of this invention, and
unexpectedly, the ultrasonic probes and devices, as well as associated methods,
may be capable of reducing an alkali metal impurity, such as sodium, to less than
1 ppm (by weight) after ultrasonic degassing, from a starting amount of, for
example, at least about 3 ppm, at least about 4 ppm, from about 3 to about 10
ppm, and the like.
        [051] In addition to undesirable impurities such as alkali metals, molten
metals also may have inclusions present that may negatively impact the final
production and casting of the desired metal article, and/or the resulting physical
properties of the metal article itself. The total inclusions or inclusion concentration
is typically measured in units of mm2 /kg (mm 2 of inclusions per kg of metal). In
certain embodiments of this invention, and unexpectedly, the ultrasonic probes
and devices, as well as associated methods, may be capable of reducing the
amount of total inclusions by at least about 50%, by comparing the inclusions
                                             - 12-

before and after ultrasonic degassing as described herein. In particular
embodiments, the amount of total inclusions may be reduced by at least about
60%, at least about 70%, at least about 80%, at least about 90%, at least about
95%, or at least about 98%, and in some cases, up to 99-100%.
        [052] Embodiments of this invention may provide methods for reducing an
amount of a dissolved gas in a molten metal bath or, in alternative language,
methods for degassing molten metals. One such method may comprise
operating an ultrasonic device in the molten metal bath, and introducing a purging
gas into the molten metal bath in close proximity to the ultrasonic device. The
dissolved gas may be or may comprise oxygen, hydrogen, sulfur dioxide, and the
like, or combinations thereof. For example, the dissolved gas may be or may
comprise hydrogen. The molten metal bath may comprise aluminum, copper,
zinc, steel, magnesium, and the like, or mixtures and/or combinations thereof
(e.g., including various alloys of aluminum, copper, zinc, steel, magnesium, etc.).
In some embodiments, the molten metal bath may comprise aluminum, while in
other embodiments, the molten metal bath may comprise copper. Accordingly,
the molten metal in the bath may be aluminum or, alternatively, the molten metal
may be copper.
        [053] Moreover, embodiments of this invention may provide methods for
reducing an amount of an impurity present in a molten metal bath or, in alternative
language, methods for removing impurities. One such method may comprise
operating an ultrasonic device in the molten metal bath, and introducing a purging
gas into the molten metal bath in close proximity to the ultrasonic device. The
impurity may be or may comprise lithium, sodium, potassium, lead, and the like,
or combinations thereof. For example, the impurity may be or may comprise
                                           - 13-

lithium or, alternatively, sodium. The molten metal bath may comprise aluminum,
copper, zinc, steel, magnesium, and the like, or mixtures and/or combinations
thereof (e.g., including various alloys of aluminum, copper, zinc, steel,
magnesium, etc.). In some embodiments, the molten metal bath may comprise
aluminum, while in other embodiments, the molten metal bath may comprise
copper. Accordingly, the molten metal in the bath may be aluminum or,
alternatively, the molten metal may be copper.
        [054] The purging gas employed in the methods of degassing and/or
methods of removing impurities disclosed herein may comprise one or more of
nitrogen, helium, neon, argon, krypton, and/or xenon, but is not limited thereto. It
is contemplated that any suitable gas may be used as a purging gas, provided
that the gas does not appreciably react with, or dissolve in, the specific metal(s) in
the molten metal bath. Additionally, mixtures or combinations of gases may be
employed. According to some embodiments disclosed herein, the purging gas
may be or may comprise an inert gas; alternatively, the purging gas may be or
may comprise a noble gas; alternatively, the purging gas may be or may comprise
helium, neon, argon, or combinations thereof; alternatively, the purging gas may
be or may comprise helium; alternatively, the purging gas may be or may
comprise neon; or alternatively, the purging gas may be or may comprise argon.
Additionally, Applicant contemplates that, in some embodiments, the conventional
degassing technique may be used in conjunction with ultrasonic degassing
processes disclosed herein. Accordingly, the purging gas may further comprise
chlorine gas in some embodiments, such as the use of chlorine gas as the
purging gas alone or in combination with at least one of nitrogen, helium, neon,
argon, krypton, and/or xenon. Moreover, SF 6 can be used singly as a purging gas
                                             - 14-

or in combination with any other purging gas disclosed herein, e.g., nitrogen,
argon, etc.
       [055] However, in other embodiments of this invention, methods for
degassing or for reducing an amount of a dissolved gas in a molten metal bath
may be conducted in the substantial absence of chlorine gas, or with no chlorine
gas present. As used herein, a substantial absence means that no more than 5%
chlorine gas by weight may be used, based on the amount of purging gas used.
 In some embodiments, the methods disclosed herein may comprise introducing a
purging gas, and this purging gas may be selected from the group consisting of
nitrogen, helium, neon, argon, krypton, xenon, and combinations thereof.
       [056] The amount of the purging gas introduced into the bath of molten
metal may vary depending on a number of factors. Often, the amount of the
purging gas introduced in a method of degassing molten metals (and/or in a
method of removing impurities from molten metals) in accordance with
embodiments of this invention may fall within a range from about 0.1 to about 150
standard liters/min (L/min) for each ultrasonic probe. As one of skill in the art
would readily recognize, more than one ultrasonic probe can be configured on an
ultrasonic device, and more than one ultrasonic device can be utilized in a bath of
molten metal (e.g., from 1 to 20, from 2 to 20, from 2 to 16, from 4 to 12 devices,
etc.). Thus, the purging gas flow rates disclosed herein are intended to describe
the flow rates through a single ultrasonic probe. Accordingly, the amount of the
purging gas introduced may be in a range from about 0.5 to about 100 L/min,
from about 1 to about 100 L/min, from about 1 to about 50 L/min, from about 1 to
about 35 L/min, from about 1 to about 25 L/min, from about 1 to about 10 L/min,
from about 1.5 to about 20 L/min, from about 2 to about 15 L/min, or from about 2
                                           - 15-

to about 10 L/min, per ultrasonic probe. These volumetric flow rates are in
standard liters per minute, i.e., at a standard temperature (21.1 0 C) and pressure
(101 kPa). In circumstances where more than one ultrasonic probe (or more than
one ultrasonic device) is used in a bath of molten metal (for instance, 2 probes, 3
probes, 4 probes, from 1 to 8 probes, from 2 to 8 probes, from 1 to 4 probes, and
so forth, per device), the purging gas flow rate for each probe, independently,
may be in a range from about 0.1 to about 50 L/min, from about 0.5 to about 30
L/min, from about 1 to about 30 L/min, from about 2 to about 50 L/min, from about
2 to about 25 L/min, from about 3 to about 50 L/min, or from about 4 to about 25
L/min.
        [057] In continuous or semi-continuous molten metal operations, the
amount of the purging gas introduced into the bath of molten metal may vary
based on the molten metal output or production rate. Accordingly, the amount of
the purging gas introduced in a method of degassing molten metals (and/or in a
method of removing impurities from molten metals) in accordance with such
embodiments may fall within a range from about 10 to about 500 mL/hr of purging
gas per kg/hr of molten metal (mL purging gas/kg molten metal). In some
embodiments, the ratio of the volumetric flow rate of the purging gas to the output
rate of the molten metal may be in a range from about 10 to about 400 mL/kg;
alternatively, from about 15 to about 300 mL/kg; alternatively, from about 20 to
about 250 mL/kg; alternatively, from about 30 to about 200 mL/kg; alternatively,
from about 40 to about 150 mL/kg; or alternatively, from about 50 to about 125
mL/kg. As above, the volumetric flow rate of the purging gas is at a standard
temperature (21.1 0C) and pressure (101 kPa).
                                            - 16-

        [058] Methods for degassing molten metals consistent with embodiments
of this invention may be effective in removing greater than about 10 weight
percent of the dissolved gas present in the molten metal bath, i.e., the amount of
dissolved gas in the molten metal bath may be reduced by greater than about 10
weight percent from the amount of dissolved gas present before the degassing
process was employed. In some embodiments, the amount of dissolved gas
present may be reduced by greater than about 15 weight percent, greater than
about 20 weight percent, greater than about 25 weight percent, greater than
about 35 weight percent, greater than about 50 weight percent, greater than
about 75 weight percent, or greater than about 80 weight percent, from the
amount of dissolved gas present before the degassing method was employed.
For instance, if the dissolved gas is hydrogen, levels of hydrogen in a molten bath
containing aluminum or copper greater than about 0.3 ppm or 0.4 ppm or 0.5 ppm
(on a mass basis) may be detrimental and, often, the hydrogen content in the
molten metal may be about 0.4 ppm, about 0.5 ppm, about 0.6 ppm, about 0.7
ppm, about 0.8 ppm, about 0.9 ppm, about 1 ppm, about 1.5 ppm, about 2 ppm,
or greater than 2 ppm. It is contemplated that employing the methods disclosed
in embodiments of this invention may reduce the amount of the dissolved gas in
the molten metal bath to less than about 0.4 ppm; alternatively, to less than about
0.3 ppm; alternatively, to less than about 0.2 ppm; alternatively, to within a range
from about 0.1 to about 0.4 ppm; alternatively, to within a range from about 0.1 to
about 0.3 ppm; or alternatively, to within a range from about 0.2 to about 0.3 ppm.
 In these and other embodiments, the dissolved gas may be or may comprise
hydrogen, and the molten metal bath may be or may comprise aluminum and/or
copper.
                                            - 17-

        [059] Embodiments of this invention directed to methods of degassing
(e.g., reducing the amount of a dissolved gas in bath comprising a molten metal)
or to methods of removing impurities may comprise operating an ultrasonic device
in the molten metal bath. The ultrasonic device may comprise an ultrasonic
transducer and an elongated probe, and the probe may comprise a first end and
a second end. The first end may be attached to the ultrasonic transducer and the
second end may comprise a tip, and the tip of the elongated probe may comprise
niobium. Specifics on illustrative and non-limiting examples of ultrasonic devices
that may be employed in the processes and methods disclosed herein will be
discussed further below. As it pertains to an ultrasonic degassing process or to a
process for removing impurities, the purging gas may be introduced into the
molten metal bath, for instance, at a location near the ultrasonic device. Often,
the purging gas may be introduced into the molten metal bath at a location near
the tip of the ultrasonic device. It is contemplated that the purging gas may be
introduced into the molten metal bath within about 1 meter of the tip of the
ultrasonic device, such as, for example, within about 100 cm, within about 50 cm,
within about 40 cm, within about 30 cm, within about 25 cm, or within about 20
cm, of the tip of the ultrasonic device. In some embodiments, the purging gas
may be introduced into the molten metal bath within about 15 cm of the tip of the
ultrasonic device; alternatively, within about 10 cm; alternatively, within about 8
cm; alternatively, within about 5 cm; alternatively, within about 3 cm; alternatively,
within about 2 cm; or alternatively, within about 1 cm. In a particular embodiment,
the purging gas may be introduced into the molten metal bath adjacent to or
through the tip of the ultrasonic device.
                                             - 18-

        [060] While not intending to be bound by this theory, Applicant believes
that a synergistic effect may exist between the use of an ultrasonic device and the
incorporation of a purging gas in close proximity, resulting in a dramatic reduction
in the amount of a dissolved gas in a bath containing molten metal. Applicant
believes that the ultrasonic energy produced by the ultrasonic device may create
cavitation bubbles in the melt, into which the dissolved gas may diffuse.
However, Applicant believes that, in the absence of the purging gas, many of the
cavitation bubbles may collapse prior to reaching the surface of the bath of molten
metal. Applicant believes that the purging gas may lessen the amount of
cavitation bubbles that collapse before reaching the surface, and/or may increase
the size of the bubbles containing the dissolved gas, and/or may increase the
number of bubbles in the molten metal bath, and/or may increase the rate of
transport of bubbles containing dissolved gas to the surface of the molten metal
bath. Regardless of the actual mechanism, Applicant believes that the use of an
ultrasonic device in combination with a source of a purging gas in close proximity
may provide a synergistic improvement in the removal of the dissolved gas from
the molten metal bath, and a synergistic reduction in the amount of dissolved gas
in the molten metal. Again, while not wishing to be bound by theory, Applicant
believes that the ultrasonic device may create cavitation bubbles within close
proximity to the tip of the ultrasonic device. For instance, for an ultrasonic device
having a tip with a diameter of about 2 to 5 cm, the cavitation bubbles may be
within about 15 cm, about 10 cm, about 5 cm, about 2 cm, or about 1 cm of the tip
of the ultrasonic device before collapsing. If the purging gas is added at a
distance that is too far from the tip of the ultrasonic device, the purging gas may
not be able to diffuse into the cavitation bubbles. Hence, while not being bound by
                                             - 19-

theory, Applicant believes that it may be beneficial for the purging gas to be
introduced into the molten metal bath near the tip of the ultrasonic device, for
instance, within about 25 cm or about 20 cm of the tip of the ultrasonic device,
and more beneficially, within about 15 cm, within about 10 cm, within about 5 cm,
within about 2 cm, or within about 1 cm, of the tip of the ultrasonic device.
        [061] Ultrasonic devices in accordance with embodiments of this invention
may be in contact with molten metals such as aluminum or copper, for example,
as disclosed in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2009/0224443, which is incorporated
herein by reference in its entirety. In an ultrasonic device for reducing dissolved
gas content (e.g., hydrogen) in a molten metal, niobium or an alloy thereof may
be used as a protective barrier for the device when it is exposed to the molten
metal, or as a component of the device with direct exposure to the molten metal.
        [062] Embodiments of the present invention may provide systems and
methods for increasing the life of components directly in contact with molten
metals. For example, embodiments of the invention may use niobium to reduce
degradation of materials in contact with molten metals, resulting in significant
quality improvements in end products. In other words, embodiments of the
invention may increase the life of or preserve materials or components in contact
with molten metals by using niobium as a protective barrier. Niobium may have
properties, for example its high melting point, which may help provide the
aforementioned embodiments of the invention. In addition, niobium also may
form a protective oxide barrier when exposed to temperatures of about 200 0C
and above.
        [063] Moreover, embodiments of the invention may provide systems and
methods for increasing the life of components directly in contact or interfacing
                                            - 20 -

with molten metals. Because niobium has low reactivity with certain molten
metals, using niobium may prevent a substrate material from degrading.
Consequently, embodiments of the invention may use niobium to reduce
degradation of substrate materials resulting in significant quality improvements in
end products. Accordingly, niobium in association with molten metals may
combine niobium's high melting point and its low reactivity with molten metals,
such as aluminum and/or copper.
        [064] In some embodiments, niobium or an alloy thereof may be used in
an ultrasonic device comprising an ultrasonic transducer and an elongated probe.
 The elongated probe may comprise a first end and a second end, wherein the
first end may be attached to the ultrasonic transducer and the second end may
comprise a tip. In accordance with this embodiment, the tip of the elongated
probe may comprise niobium (e.g., niobium or an alloy thereof). The ultrasonic
device may be used in an ultrasonic degassing process, as discussed above.
The ultrasonic transducer may generate ultrasonic waves, and the probe attached
to the transducer may transmit the ultrasonic waves into a bath comprising a
molten metal, such as aluminum, copper, zinc, steel, magnesium, and the like, or
mixtures and/or combinations thereof (e.g., including various alloys of aluminum,
copper, zinc, steel, magnesium, etc.).
        [065] Referring first to FIG. 3, which illustrates using niobium and other
materials in an ultrasonic device 300, which may be used to reduce dissolved gas
content in a molten metal. The ultrasonic device 300 may include an ultrasonic
transducer 360, a booster 350 for increased output, and an ultrasonic probe
assembly 302 attached to the transducer 360. The ultrasonic probe assembly
302 may comprise an elongated ultrasonic probe 304 and an ultrasonic medium
                                            - 21 -

312. The ultrasonic device 300 and ultrasonic probe 304 may be generally
cylindrical in shape, but this is not a requirement. The ultrasonic probe 304 may
comprise a first end and a second end, wherein the first end comprises an
ultrasonic probe shaft 306 which is attached to the ultrasonic transducer 360.
The ultrasonic probe 304 and the ultrasonic probe shaft 306 may be constructed
of various materials. Exemplary materials may include, but are not limited to,
stainless steel, titanium, niobium, a ceramic (e.g., a Sialon, a Silicon carbide, a
Boron carbide, a Boron nitride, a Silicon nitride, an Aluminum nitride, an
Aluminum oxide, a Zirconia, etc.) and the like, or combinations thereof. The
second end of the ultrasonic probe 304 may comprise an ultrasonic probe tip 310.
 The ultrasonic probe tip 310 may comprise niobium. Alternatively, the tip 310
may consistent essentially of, or consist of, niobium. Niobium may be alloyed with
one or more other metals, or niobium may be a layer that is plated or coated onto
a base layer of another material. For instance, the tip 310 may comprise an inner
layer and an outer layer, wherein the inner layer may comprise a ceramic or a
metal material (e.g., titanium) and the outer layer may comprise niobium. In this
embodiment, the thickness of the outer layer comprising niobium may be less
than about 25 microns, or less than about 10 microns, or alternatively, within a
range from about 2 to about 8 microns. For example, the thickness of the outer
layer comprising niobium may be in range from about 3 to about 6 microns.
        [066] The ultrasonic probe shaft 306 and the ultrasonic probe tip 310 may
be joined by a connector 308. The connector 308 may represent a means for
attaching the shaft 306 and the tip 310. For example the shaft 306 and the tip
310 may be bolted or soldered together. In one embodiment, the connector 308
may represent that the shaft 306 contains recessed threading and the tip 310 may
                                             - 22 -

be screwed into the shaft 306. It is contemplated that the ultrasonic probe shaft
306 and the ultrasonic probe tip 310 may comprise different materials. For
instance, the ultrasonic probe shaft 306 may be or may comprise titanium and/or
niobium, while the ultrasonic probe tip 310 may be or may comprise niobium.
Alternatively, the ultrasonic probe shaft 306 may be or may comprise titanium
and/or a ceramic (e.g., a Sialon, a Silicon carbide, a Boron carbide, a Boron
nitride, a Silicon nitride, an Aluminum nitride, an Aluminum oxide, a Zirconia, etc.),
while the ultrasonic probe tip 310 may be or may comprise a ceramic (e.g., a
Sialon, a Silicon carbide, a Boron carbide, a Boron nitride, a Silicon nitride, an
Aluminum nitride, an Aluminum oxide, a Zirconia, etc.).
        [067] In other embodiments, the ultrasonic probe 304 may be a single
piece, e.g., the ultrasonic probe shaft 306 and the ultrasonic probe tip 310 are a
unitary part having the same construction. In such instances, the ultrasonic probe
may comprise, for instance, niobium or an alloy thereof, a ceramic (e.g., a Sialon,
a Silicon carbide, a Boron carbide, a Boron nitride, a Silicon nitride, an Aluminum
nitride, an Aluminum oxide, a Zirconia, etc.), or other suitable material.
        [068] Referring again to FIG. 3, the ultrasonic device 300 may comprise
an inner tube 328, a center tube 324, an outer tube 320, and a protection tube
340. These tubes or channels may surround at least a portion of the ultrasonic
probe 304 and generally may be constructed of any suitable metal or ceramic
material. It may be expected that the ultrasonic probe tip 310 will be placed into
the bath of molten metal; however, it is contemplated that a portion of the
protection tube 340 also may be immersed in molten metal. Accordingly, the
protection tube 340 may be or may comprise titanium, niobium, a ceramic (e.g., a
Sialon, a Silicon carbide, a Boron carbide, a Boron nitride, a Silicon nitride, an
                                             - 23 -

Aluminum nitride, an Aluminum oxide, a Zirconia, etc.), or a combination of more
than one of these materials. Contained within the tubes 328, 324, 320, and 340
may be fluids 322, 326, and 342, as illustrated in FIG. 3. The fluid may be a liquid
or a gas (e.g., argon), the purpose of which may be to provide cooling to the
ultrasonic device 300 and, in particular, to the ultrasonic probe tip 310 and the
protection tube 340.
       [069] The ultrasonic device 300 may comprise an end cap 344. The end
cap may bridge the gap between the protection tube 340 and the probe tip 310
and may reduce or prevent molten metal from entering the ultrasonic device 300.
 Similar to the protection tube 340, the end cap 344 may be or may comprise, for
example, titanium, niobium, a ceramic (e.g., a Sialon, a Silicon carbide, a Boron
carbide, a Boron nitride, a Silicon nitride, an Aluminum nitride, an Aluminum
oxide, a Zirconia, etc.), or a combination of more than one of these materials.
       [070] The ultrasonic probe tip 310, the protection tube 340, or the end cap
344, or all three, may comprise niobium. Niobium alone may be used, niobium
may be alloyed with one or more other metals, or niobium may be a layer that is
plated or coated onto a base layer of another material. For instance, the
ultrasonic probe tip 310, the protection tube 340, or the end cap 344, or all three,
may comprise an inner layer and an outer layer, wherein the inner layer may
comprise a ceramic or a metal material and the outer layer may comprise
niobium. It may be expected that the presence of niobium on parts of the
ultrasonic device may improve the life of the device, may provide low or no
chemical reactivity when in contact with molten metals, may provide strength at
the melting temperature of the molten metal, and may have the capability to
propagate ultrasonic waves. In accordance with some embodiments of this
                                             - 24 -

invention, when the tip 310 of the ultrasonic device does not comprise niobium,
the tip may show erosion or degradation after only about 15-30 minutes in a
molten metal bath (e.g., of aluminum or copper). In contrast, when the tip of the
ultrasonic device comprises niobium, the tip may show no or minimal erosion or
degradation after at least 1 hour or more, for instance, no erosion or degradation
after at least 2 hours, after at least 3 hours, after at least 4 hours, after at least 5
hours, after at least 6 hours, after at least 12 hours, after at least 24 hours, after
at least 48 hours, or after at least 72 hours.
        [071] In another embodiment, the ultrasonic probe tip 310, the protection
tube 340, or the end cap 344, or all three, may comprise a ceramic, such as a
Sialon, a Silicon carbide, a Boron carbide, a Boron nitride, a Silicon nitride, an
Aluminum nitride, an Aluminum oxide, and/or a Zirconia, and the like. Further, the
ultrasonic probe shaft 306 may comprise a ceramic, or alternatively, titanium.
        [072] FIG. 4 illustrates another ultrasonic device 400 that may comprise
niobium, a ceramic such as a Sialon, a Silicon carbide, a Boron carbide, a Boron
nitride, a Silicon nitride, an Aluminum nitride, an Aluminum oxide, and/or a
Zirconia, or other suitable material. The ultrasonic device 400 may include an
ultrasonic transducer 460, a booster 450 for increased output, and an ultrasonic
probe assembly 402 attached to the transducer 460. The booster 450 may permit
increased output at boost levels greater than about 1:1, for instance, from about
1.2:1 to about 10:1, or from about 1.4:1 to about 5:1. A booster clamp assembly
451 having a height H may be employed, where the height H may vary as needed
to accommodate different length ultrasonic probes. The ultrasonic probe
assembly 402 may comprise an elongated ultrasonic probe as depicted in FIG. 3
and an ultrasonic probe tip 410. The ultrasonic probe and tip may be constructed
                                             - 25 -

of various materials, as previously discussed, including, but not limited to,
stainless steel, titanium, niobium, ceramics, and the like, or combinations thereof,
inclusive of mixtures thereof, alloys thereof, and coatings thereof.
        [073] The ultrasonic device 400 may comprise a means for introducing a
purging gas (e.g., into a molten metal bath) at a location near the ultrasonic
device 400. It is contemplated that an external purging gas injection system (not
shown) may be positioned in the molten metal bath, and the injection site may be
near the ultrasonic device of FIG. 3 and/or FIG. 4. Alternatively, the ultrasonic
device may comprise a purging gas outlet, such that the purging gas may be
expelled near or at the tip of the ultrasonic device. For instance, the purging gas
may be expelled through the end cap of the ultrasonic device and/or through the
probe of the ultrasonic device. Referring again to FIG. 4, the ultrasonic device
may comprise a purging gas inlet port 424 and injection chamber 425, connected
to a purging gas delivery channel 413. The purging gas may be delivered to, and
expelled through, a purging gas delivery space 414 located near or at the tip 410
of the ultrasonic device 400. It is contemplated that the purging gas delivery
space 414, or purging gas outlet, may be within about 10 cm of the tip 410 of the
ultrasonic device 400, such as, for example, within about 5 cm, within about 3 cm,
within about 2 cm, within about 1.5 cm, within about 1 cm, or within about 0.5 cm,
of the tip of the ultrasonic device.
        [074] Additionally, the ultrasonic device 400 may comprise an ultrasonic
cooler system 429, which may be designed to keep the ultrasonic tip and/or the
ultrasonic probe and/or the ultrasonic probe assembly at a temperature closer to
room temperature (e.g., the temperature may be in a range from about 15 0C to
about 75 OC, or from about 20 0C to about 35 OC), as opposed to the elevated
                                            - 26 -

temperatures of molten metal experienced by the outer surface of the tip 410 of
the ultrasonic device. It is contemplated that an ultrasonic cooler system may not
be required if the ultrasonic probe and assembly comprise niobium, a ceramic
such as a Sialon, a Silicon carbide, a Boron carbide, a Boron nitride, a Silicon
nitride, an Aluminum nitride, an Aluminum oxide, and/or a Zirconia, or other
suitable material. The ultrasonic cooler system 429 of FIG. 4 may be similar to
that system depicted in FIG. 3 including, for instance, an inner tube 328, a center
tube 324, an outer tube 320, a protection tube 340, and fluids 322, 326, and 342,
designed to provide cooling and/or temperature control to the ultrasonic device.
The fluid may be a liquid or a gas, and it is contemplated that the fluid may be the
same material as the purging gas.
        [075] FIG. 5 illustrates yet another ultrasonic device 500 that may
comprise niobium, a ceramic such as a Sialon, a Silicon carbide, a Boron carbide,
a Boron nitride, a Silicon nitride, an Aluminum nitride, an Aluminum oxide, and/or
a Zirconia, or other suitable material. The ultrasonic device 500 may include an
ultrasonic transducer 560, a booster 550 for increased output, and an ultrasonic
probe assembly 510 attached to the transducer 560. The booster 550 may permit
increased output at boost levels greater than about 1:1, for instance, from about
 1.2:1 to about 10:1, or from about 1.4:1 to about 5:1. The ultrasonic probe 510
may be a single piece, or the ultrasonic probe 510 may comprise an ultrasonic
probe shaft and an optional (and replaceable) ultrasonic probe tip 511, similar to
that depicted in FIG. 3. The ultrasonic probe and tip may be constructed of
various materials, as previously discussed, including, but not limited to, stainless
steel, titanium, niobium, ceramics, and the like, or combinations thereof, inclusive
of mixtures thereof, alloys thereof, and coatings thereof.
                                            - 27 -

        [076] The ultrasonic device 500 may comprise a means for introducing a
purging gas (e.g., into a molten metal bath) at a location near the ultrasonic
device 500 and/or near the ultrasonic probe tip 511. As above, it is contemplated
that an external purging gas injection system (not shown) may be positioned in
the molten metal bath, and the injection site may be near the ultrasonic device of
FIG. 5. Alternatively, the ultrasonic device may comprise a purging gas outlet,
such that the purging gas may be expelled near or at the tip of the ultrasonic
device. For instance, the purging gas may be expelled through the probe/tip of
the ultrasonic device. Referring again to FIG. 5, the ultrasonic device may
comprise a purging gas inlet port 522 in a chamber with the booster 550, an
upper housing 520, lower support housing 521, and a lower support housing
cover 523. The upper housing 520 may be gas tight and/or leak proof. The
purging gas inlet port 522 may be connected to a purging gas delivery channel
524, which may be contained within the ultrasonic probe 510. The purging gas
may be delivered to, and expelled through, a purging gas injection point 525 (or
purging gas outlet port) located at the tip 511 of the ultrasonic device 500.
Accordingly, in this embodiment, the ultrasonic device 500 may comprise an
ultrasonic probe 510 comprising a purging gas injection system with a purging gas
injection point at the tip of the ultrasonic probe.
        [077] Optionally, the ultrasonic device 500 may comprise an ultrasonic
cooler system, such as described above relative to FIG. 3 and/or FIG. 4, but this
is not a requirement.
        [078] Another ultrasonic device is illustrated in FIG. 6. The ultrasonic
device 600 may include an ultrasonic transducer 660, a booster 650 for increased
output, and an ultrasonic probe 610 attached to the transducer 660 and booster
                                              - 28 -

650. The booster 650 may be in communication with the transducer 660, and
may permit increased output at boost levels greater than about 1:1, for instance,
from about 1.2:1 to about 10:1, or from about 1.4:1 to about 5:1. In some
embodiments, the booster may be or may comprise a metal, such as titanium.
The ultrasonic probe 610 may be a single piece, or the ultrasonic probe 610 may
comprise an ultrasonic probe shaft and an optional (and replaceable) ultrasonic
probe tip, similar to that depicted in FIG. 3. The ultrasonic probe 610 is not
limited in shape and design to an elongated probe (e.g., generally cylindrical) with
one end attached to the transducer 660 and/or booster 650, and the other end
comprising a tip of the probe. In one embodiment, the probe may be generally
cylindrical, however, a middle portion of the probe may be secured to the
transducer/booster with a clamp or other attachment mechanism, such that probe
has two tips, neither of which is attached directly to the transducer/booster. Yet,
in another embodiment, the probe may be another geometric shape, such as
spherical, or cylindrical with a spherical portion at the tip, etc.
        [079] The ultrasonic probe 610 may be constructed of various materials,
as previously discussed, including, but not limited to, stainless steel, titanium,
niobium, ceramics, and the like, or combinations thereof, inclusive of mixtures
thereof, alloys thereof, and coatings thereof. In certain embodiments, the
ultrasonic probe 610 may be or may comprise a ceramic material. For instance,
the ultrasonic probe may be or may comprise a Sialon, a Silicon carbide, a Boron
carbide, a Boron nitride, a Silicon nitride, an Aluminum nitride, an Aluminum
oxide, a Zirconia, or a combination thereof; alternatively, a Sialon; alternatively, a
Silicon carbide; alternatively, a Boron carbide; alternatively, a Boron nitride;
alternatively, a Silicon nitride; alternatively, an Aluminum nitride; alternatively, an
                                               - 29 -

Aluminum oxide; or alternatively, a Zirconia. In some embodiments, the
ultrasonic probe 610 may be a single piece, e.g., the probe is a unitary part,
having the same construction or composition from the end attached to the
transducer/booster to the probe tip.
        [080] Typical Sialons that may be used in embodiments disclosed herein
are ceramic alloys containing the elements silicon (Si), aluminum (AI), oxygen (0)
and nitrogen (N). Moreover, as would be recognized by one of skill in the art,
there are a-Sialon and p-Sialon grades. The ultrasonic probe 610 may comprise
a Sialon, and further, at least 20% (by weight) of which may be a-Sialon (or p
Sialon). While not wishing to be bound by theory, Applicant believes that the use
of at least 20% (by weight), or 30% (by weight), or a weight percent in a range
from about 20% to about 50%, of a p-Sialon may provide a stronger and more
durable ultrasonic probe (e.g., less prone to breakage).
        [081] The ultrasonic device 600 may comprise a means for introducing a
gas (e.g., a purging gas into a molten metal bath) at a location near the ultrasonic
device 600 and/or near the ultrasonic probe tip. As above, it is contemplated that
an external purging gas injection system (not shown) may be positioned in the
molten metal bath, and the injection site may be near the ultrasonic device of FIG.
6. Alternatively, the ultrasonic device may comprise a gas delivery system, such
that a gas may be expelled near or at the tip of the ultrasonic device. For
instance, the gas may be expelled through the probe/tip of the ultrasonic device.
Referring again to FIG. 6, the ultrasonic device 600 may comprise a gas inlet port
622 in a chamber in the booster 650. The gas inlet port 622 may be connected to
a gas delivery channel 624, which may extend from the booster 650 to the tip of
the ultrasonic probe 610. The gas inlet port 622 and part of the booster 650 may
                                           - 30 -

be contained within a gas tight and/or leak proof housing. The gas may be
delivered to, and expelled through, a gas injection point 625 (or gas outlet)
located at the tip of the ultrasonic probe 610. Accordingly, in this embodiment,
the ultrasonic device 600 may comprise an ultrasonic probe 610 comprising a gas
delivery system with a gas injection point at the tip of the ultrasonic probe.
        [082] The gas delivery channel 624 is shown in FIG. 6 as having a larger
flow path in the booster 650 and a portion of the ultrasonic probe 610 closest to
the booster, and a smaller flow path at the gas injection point 625, although this is
not a requirement. For instance, the size of the gas delivery channel 624 may be
substantially the same size (e.g., within +/- 10-20%) from the gas inlet port 622 to
the gas injection point 625 at the tip of the ultrasonic probe 610.
        [083] While not wishing to be bound by theory, Applicant believes that a
smaller flow path (e.g., cross-sectional area) at the gas injection point, relative to
the cross-sectional area of the ultrasonic probe, may result in superior degassing
due to the higher velocity of the gas as it exits the probe. In some embodiments,
the ratio of the cross-sectional area of the ultrasonic probe to the cross-sectional
area of the gas delivery channel (i.e., at the gas injection point or gas outlet) may
be in a range from about 30:1 to about 1000:1, from about 60:1 to about 1000:1,
or from about 60:1 to about 750:1. In other embodiments, the ratio of the cross
sectional area of the ultrasonic probe to the cross-sectional area of the gas
delivery channel (i.e., at the gas injection point or gas outlet) may be in a range
from about 60:1 to about 700:1, from about 100:1 to about 700:1, or from about
200:1 to about 1000:1. In these and other embodiments, the length to diameter
ratio (L/D) of the ultrasonic probe (e.g., a unitary elongated probe) may be in a
                                             - 31 -

range from about 5:1 to about 25:1, from about 5:1 to about 12:1, from about 7:1
to about 22:1, from about 10:1 to about 20:1, or from about 11:1 to about 18:1.
        [084] In embodiments directed to ultrasonic probes containing a ceramic
material, such as a Sialon, it may be beneficial to employ an attachment nut 603
as a means for securing the ultrasonic probe 610 to the booster 650 and
transducer 660. The attachment nut 603 may offer superior durability and
longevity as compared to shrink-fit ceramic attachments. The attachment nut 603
may be constructed of various materials, such as, for instance, titanium, stainless
steel, etc., and may contain fine pitch (internal) treads for robust securement,
alleviating the need to have a threaded ceramic probe which is more prone to
breakage. Moreover, the booster 650 may have external threads, onto which the
attachment nut 603 (and, therefore, the probe 610) may be robustly secured.
Generally, it also may be beneficial to keep the size and/or weight of the
attachment nut as low as is mechanically feasible, such that ultrasonic vibrational
properties of the probe are not adversely affected.
        [085] In certain embodiments, the probe 610 may have a large radius of
curvature 615 at the attachment side of the probe. While not wishing to be bound
by theory, Applicant believes that a smaller radius of curvature at the attachment
side of the probe (e.g., proximate to the attachment nut) may lead to increased
breakage of the probe, particularly at higher ultrasonic powers and/or amplitudes
that may required for increased cavitation and superior dissolved gas removal in a
degassing process. In particular embodiments contemplated herein, the radius of
curvature 615 may be at least about 1/2", at least about 5/8", at least about 3/4",
at least about 1", and so forth. Such radiuses of curvature may be desirable
regardless of the actual size of the probe (e.g., various probe diameters).
                                            - 32 -

        [086] Optionally, the ultrasonic device 600 may comprise an ultrasonic
cooler system, such as described above relative to FIG. 3 and/or FIG. 4, but this
is not a requirement. Referring again to FIG. 6, the ultrasonic device 600,
alternatively, may optionally comprise a thermal protection housing 640. This
housing generally may be constructed of any suitable metal and/or ceramic
material. It may be expected that the ultrasonic probe 610 will be placed into the
bath of molten metal; therefore, the thermal protection housing may be used to
shield a portion of the booster 650, the attachment nut 603, and a portion of the
ultrasonic probe 610 from excessive heat. If desired, a cooling medium may be
circulated within and/or around the thermal protection housing 640. The cooling
medium may be a liquid (e.g., water) or a gas (e.g., argon, nitrogen, air, etc.).
        [087] The ultrasonic devices disclosed herein, including those illustrated in
FIGS. 3-6, may be operated at a range of powers and frequencies. For ultrasonic
devices with probe diameters of about 1" or less, the operating power often may
be in a range from about 60 to about 275 watts. As an example, operating power
ranges of about 60 to about 120 watts for 3/4" probe diameters, and operating
power ranges of about 120 to about 250 watts for 1" probe diameters, may be
employed. While not being limited to any particular frequency, the ultrasonic
devices may be operated at, and the ultrasonic degassing methods may be
conducted at, a frequency that typically may be in a range from about 10 to about
50 kHz, from about 15 to about 40 kHz, or at about 20 kHz.
        [088] Referring now to FIGS. 7A-7B, which illustrate an ultrasonic probe
710 that may be used in any of the ultrasonic devices of FIGS. 3-6. As illustrated,
the ultrasonic probe 710 is shown as a single piece (unitary part), but may
comprise an ultrasonic probe shaft and an optional (and replaceable) ultrasonic
                                           - 33 -

probe tip, as described hereinabove for FIG. 3, in certain embodiments.
Additionally, the ultrasonic probe 710 is shown as an elongated probe (e.g.,
generally cylindrical), but is not limited to this geometric shape.
        [089] The ultrasonic probe 710 may be constructed of various materials,
as discussed herein, including, but not limited to, stainless steel, titanium,
niobium, ceramics, and the like, or combinations thereof, inclusive of mixtures
thereof, alloys thereof, and coatings thereof. In certain embodiments, the
ultrasonic probe 710 may be or may comprise a ceramic material. For instance,
the ultrasonic probe 710 may be or may comprise a Sialon, a Silicon carbide, a
Boron carbide, a Boron nitride, a Silicon nitride, an Aluminum nitride, an
Aluminum oxide, a Zirconia, or a combination thereof; alternatively, a Sialon (e.g.,
any Sialon disclosed herein); alternatively, a Silicon carbide; alternatively, a Boron
carbide; alternatively, a Boron nitride; alternatively, a Silicon nitride; alternatively,
an Aluminum nitride; alternatively, an Aluminum oxide; or alternatively, a Zirconia.
        [090] The ultrasonic probe 710 may comprise a gas channel 724 in the
center of the probe and extending the full length of the probe, with a gas outlet
725 at the tip of the probe. A purging gas may be delivered through the gas
channel 724 and expelled at the gas outlet 725 at the tip of the ultrasonic probe
710. In some embodiments, the ratio of the cross-sectional area of the ultrasonic
probe 710 to the cross-sectional area of the gas channel 724 (e.g., anywhere
within the length of the probe, or at the gas outlet 725) may be in a range from
about 30:1 to about 1000:1, from about 60:1 to about 1000:1, or from about 60:1
to about 750:1. In other embodiments, the ratio of the cross-sectional area of the
ultrasonic probe 710 to the cross-sectional area of the gas channel 724 may be in
a range from about 60:1 to about 700:1, from about 100:1 to about 700:1, from
                                              - 34 -

about 50:1 to about 500:1, or from about 200:1 to about 1000:1. In these and
other embodiments, the length to diameter ratio (L/D) of the ultrasonic probe 710
may be in a range from about 5:1 to about 25:1, from about 5:1 to about 15:1,
from about 5:1 to about 12:1, from about 7:1 to about 22:1, from about 7:1 to
about 14:1, from about 10:1 to about 20:1, or from about 11:1 to about 18:1.
        [091] The ultrasonic probe 710 may be secured to an ultrasonic device
using any suitable method, for example, using an attachment nut as described
herein. In certain embodiments, the probe 710 may have a large radius of
curvature 715 at the attachment side of the probe, which may reduce probe
breakage and increase the useful life of the probe. In particular embodiments
contemplated herein, the radius of curvature 715 may be at least about 1/8", at
least about 1/4", at least about 1/2", at least about 5/8", at least about 3/4", at
least about 1", and so forth (e.g., the radius of curvature 715 may be equal to
about 1/4"). Such radiuses of curvature may be desirable regardless of the actual
size of the probe (e.g., various probe diameters).
        [092] FIGS. 1A-1B illustrate an ultrasonic probe 110 that may be used in
any of the ultrasonic devices of FIGS. 3-6. As illustrated, the ultrasonic probe 110
is shown as a single piece (unitary part), but may comprise an ultrasonic probe
shaft and an optional (and replaceable) ultrasonic probe tip, as described
hereinabove for FIG. 3, in certain embodiments. Additionally, the ultrasonic probe
110 is shown as an elongated probe (e.g., generally cylindrical), but is not limited
to this geometric shape.
        [093] The ultrasonic probe 110 may be constructed of various materials,
as discussed herein, including, but not limited to, stainless steel, titanium,
niobium, ceramics, and the like, or combinations thereof, inclusive of mixtures
                                             - 35 -

thereof, alloys thereof, and coatings thereof. In certain embodiments, the
ultrasonic probe 110 may be or may comprise a ceramic material. For instance,
the ultrasonic probe 110 may be or may comprise a Sialon, a Silicon carbide, a
Boron carbide, a Boron nitride, a Silicon nitride, an Aluminum nitride, an
Aluminum oxide, a Zirconia, or a combination thereof; alternatively, a Sialon (e.g.,
any Sialon disclosed herein); alternatively, a Silicon carbide; alternatively, a Boron
carbide; alternatively, a Boron nitride; alternatively, a Silicon nitride; alternatively,
an Aluminum nitride; alternatively, an Aluminum oxide; or alternatively, a Zirconia.
         [094] The ultrasonic probe 110 may comprise a plurality of gas channels
124 extending the full length of the probe, with associated gas outlets 125 at the
tip of the probe. In FIGS. 1A-1B, a probe 110 with three gas channels 124 is
shown; however, the probe may have two gas channels, or four or more gas
channels, in other embodiments. Moreover, the gas channels may be positioned
anywhere within the interior of the probe. FIGS. 1A-1 B show the three gas
channels 124 positioned about halfway from the center to the exterior surface of
the probe, and arranged about 1200 apart. A purging gas may be delivered
through the gas channels 124 and expelled at the gas outlets 125 at the tip of the
ultrasonic probe 110. In some embodiments, the ratio of the cross-sectional area
of the ultrasonic probe 110 to the total cross-sectional area of the three gas
channels 124 (e.g., anywhere within the length of the probe, or at the gas outlets
125) may be in a range from about 30:1 to about 1000:1, from about 60:1 to
about 1000:1, or from about 60:1 to about 750:1. In other embodiments, the ratio
of the cross-sectional area of the ultrasonic probe 110 to the total cross-sectional
area of the three gas channels 124 may be in a range from about 20:1 to about
250:1, from about 20:1 to about 175:1, from about 30:1 to about 200:1, from
                                             - 36 -

about 30:1 to about 175:1, from about 60:1 to about 700:1, from about 100:1 to
about 700:1, from about 50:1 to about 500:1, or from about 200:1 to about
1000:1. In these and other embodiments, the length to diameter ratio (L/D) of the
ultrasonic probe 110 may be in a range from about 5:1 to about 25:1, from about
5:1 to about 15:1, from about 5:1 to about 12:1, from about 7:1 to about 22:1,
from about 7:1 to about 14:1, from about 10:1 to about 20:1, or from about 11:1 to
about 18:1.
       [095] The ultrasonic probe 110 may be secured to an ultrasonic device
using any suitable method, for example, using an attachment nut as described
herein. In certain embodiments, the probe 110 may have a large radius of
curvature 115 at the attachment side of the probe, which may reduce probe
breakage and increase the useful life of the probe. In particular embodiments
contemplated herein, the radius of curvature 115 may be at least about 1/8", at
least about 1/4", at least about 1/2", at least about 5/8", at least about 3/4", at
least about 1", and so forth (e.g., the radius of curvature 115 may be equal to
about 1/4"). Such radiuses of curvature may be desirable regardless of the actual
size of the probe (e.g., various probe diameters).
       [096] Illustrated in FIG. 1C is an ultrasonic device 100 with an ultrasonic
transducer 160, a booster 150 for increased output, and an ultrasonic probe 110
(described hereinabove) attached to the booster 150 and transducer 160. The
booster 150 may be in communication with the transducer 160, and may permit
increased output at boost levels greater than about 1:1, for instance, from about
1.2:1 to about 10:1, or from about 1.4:1 to about 5:1. In some embodiments, the
booster may be or may comprise a metal, such as titanium. The ultrasonic device
100 may comprise a gas inlet (two gas inlets 122 are shown in FIG. 1C) that
                                             - 37 -

feeds a gas flow line that terminates at the end of booster. The probe 110 may
be secured to the booster 150 with an attachment nut 103. A single gas delivery
channel 124 is shown is FIG. 1C, with a gas outlet 125 at the tip of the probe.
Two other gas delivery channels are present in the probe, but are not shown in
the cross-sectional view of FIG. 1C.
         [097] FIG. 1D is a close-up view of portions of the ultrasonic device and
probe of FIGS. 1A-1C, illustrating the interface between the booster 150 and the
probe 110, secured with the attachment nut 103. A single gas inlet (or gas flow
line) may be used for each gas delivery channel 124 in the probe 110, or
alternatively, a single gas inlet may be used, and the flow may be split in the
booster to form three flow paths which connect to the respective gas delivery
channels in the probe. Another option is demonstrated in FIG. 1D, where a gas
inlet 122 (or gas flow line) terminates in a recessed gas chamber 118 at the end
of booster 150, the purging gas disposed between (and bounded by) the booster
 150 and the probe 110, and the recessed gas chamber 118 may be gas tight or
leak proof. The recessed gas chamber 118 may be configured to direct the
purging gas flow from the booster 150 to the three gas delivery channels 124 in
the probe 110. The recessed gas chamber 118 can be of any suitable geometry,
but is illustrated as a parabolic shape (e.g., like a contact lens) in FIG. 1D.
         [098] FIGS. 2A-2B illustrate an ultrasonic probe 210 that may be used in
any of the ultrasonic devices of FIGS. 3-6. As illustrated, the ultrasonic probe 210
is shown as a single piece (unitary part), but may comprise an ultrasonic probe
shaft and an optional (and replaceable) ultrasonic probe tip, as described
hereinabove for FIG. 3, in certain embodiments. Additionally, the ultrasonic probe
                                            - 38  -

210 is shown as an elongated probe (e.g., generally cylindrical), but is not limited
to this geometric shape.
        [099] The ultrasonic probe 210 may be constructed of various materials,
as discussed herein, including, but not limited to, stainless steel, titanium,
niobium, ceramics, and the like, or combinations thereof, inclusive of mixtures
thereof, alloys thereof, and coatings thereof. In certain embodiments, the
ultrasonic probe 210 may be or may comprise a ceramic material. For instance,
the ultrasonic probe 210 may be or may comprise a Sialon, a Silicon carbide, a
Boron carbide, a Boron nitride, a Silicon nitride, an Aluminum nitride, an
Aluminum oxide, a Zirconia, or a combination thereof; alternatively, a Sialon (e.g.,
any Sialon disclosed herein); alternatively, a Silicon carbide; alternatively, a Boron
carbide; alternatively, a Boron nitride; alternatively, a Silicon nitride; alternatively,
an Aluminum nitride; alternatively, an Aluminum oxide; or alternatively, a Zirconia.
        [0100] The ultrasonic probe 210 may comprise a gas channel 224 in the
center of the probe and extending the full length of the probe, with one gas outlet
225 at the tip of the probe. The probe 210 also may contain a plurality of
recessed areas 235 near the tip of the probe. In FIGS. 2A-2B, a probe 210 with
three recessed areas 235 is shown, however, the probe may have only one or two
recessed areas, or four or more recessed areas, in other embodiments.
Moreover, the recessed areas are not limited to any particular depth and/or width.
 FIGS. 2A-2B show recessed areas 235 having a diameter of about 75-85% of the
diameter of the ultrasonic probe 210, and a total length of the three recessed
areas such that the ratio of length of the probe 210 to the total length of the three
recessed areas 235 may be in a range from about 10:1 to about 100:1, or from
about 15:1 to about 80:1.
                                             - 39 -

         [0101] The ultrasonic probe 210 also contains four gas outlets 225 in the
recessed area 235 closest to the tip of the probe. One of these gas outlets is
shown in FIG. 2A; the other three are located 900 around the circumference of the
probe. A purging gas may be delivered through the gas channel 224 and
expelled at the gas outlets 225 in the recessed area and at the tip of the
ultrasonic probe 210. In some embodiments, the ratio of the cross-sectional area
of the ultrasonic probe 210 to the total cross-sectional area of the gas channel
224 at the gas outlets 225 (i.e., at the five gas outlets) may be in a range from
about 30:1 to about 1000:1, from about 60:1 to about 1000:1, or from about 60:1
to about 750:1. In other embodiments, the ratio of the cross-sectional area of the
ultrasonic probe 210 to the total cross-sectional area of the gas channels at the
gas outlets may be in a range from about 20:1 to about 250:1, from about 20:1 to
about 175:1, from about 30:1 to about 200:1, from about 30:1 to about 175:1,
from about 60:1 to about 700:1, from about 100:1 to about 700:1, from about 50:1
to about 500:1, or from about 200:1 to about 1000:1. In these and other
embodiments, the length to diameter ratio (L/D) of the ultrasonic probe 210 may
be in a range from about 5:1 to about 25:1, from about 5:1 to about 15:1, from
about 5:1 to about 12:1, from about 7:1 to about 22:1, from about 7:1 to about
 14:1, from about 10:1 to about 20:1, or from about 11:1 to about 18:1.
         [0102] The ultrasonic probe 210 may be secured to an ultrasonic device
using any suitable method, for example, using an attachment nut as described
herein. In certain embodiments, the probe 210 may have a large radius of
curvature 215 at the attachment side of the probe, which may reduce probe
breakage and increase the useful life of the probe. In particular embodiments
contemplated herein, the radius of curvature 215 may be at least about 1/8", at
                                             - 40 -

least about 1/4", at least about 1/2", at least about 5/8", at least about 3/4", at
least about 1", and so forth (e.g., the radius of curvature 215 may be equal to
about 1/4"). Such radiuses of curvature may be desirable regardless of the actual
size of the probe (e.g., various probe diameters).
       [0103] While certain embodiments of the invention have been described,
other embodiments may exist. Further, any disclosed methods' stages may be
modified in any manner, including by reordering stages and/or inserting or
deleting stages, without departing from the invention. While the specification
includes examples, the invention's scope is indicated by the following claims.
Furthermore, while the specification has been described in language specific to
structural features and/or methodological acts, the claims are not limited to the
features or acts described above. Rather, the specific features and acts
described above are disclosed as illustrative embodiments of the invention.
       [0104] Throughout the specification, unless the context requires otherwise,
the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be
understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers but not
the exclusion of any other integer or group of integers.
       [0105] Furthermore, throughout the specification, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "include" or variations such as "includes" or
"including", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of
integers but not the exclusion of any other integer or group of integers.
       [0106] Modifications and variations such as would be apparent to a skilled
addressee are deemed to be within the scope of the present invention.
                                             - 41 -

                                     EXAMPLES
Examples 1-4
        [0107] In Examples 1-4, a series of tests were conducted to determine the
relative speed at which dissolved hydrogen in a molten bath of aluminum can be
degassed in accordance with the disclosed methods. First, a small amount of
aluminum was melted in a metal bath, and then maintained, at a temperature of
about 1350 0 F (732 0 C). An Alspek unit was used to determine a baseline
reading of hydrogen content, in units of mL/100g. The Alspek unit uses the
principle of partial pressures in an electrolytic half cell to determine the amount of
dissolved hydrogen in molten aluminum. The tip of an ultrasonic device was
placed into the aluminum bath, and the purging gas argon was added to the
molten metal bath at a rate of about 1 standard liter per minute (L/min). For
Examples 1-4, the ultrasonic device was operated with a 3:1 booster and at
20,000 Hz, although up to and including 40,000 Hz, or more, could be used. For
Example 1, a baseline ultrasonic vibration amplitude was used, and a baseline
power level for the ultrasonic power supply (watts); for Example 2, the ultrasonic
vibration amplitude was 2 times the baseline, and the power level of the ultrasonic
power supply was 1.9 times the baseline; and for Example 3, the ultrasonic
vibration amplitude was 3 times the baseline, and the power level of the ultrasonic
power supply was 3.6 times the baseline. For Example 4, the ultrasonic device
was not used, only addition of the argon purging gas. The level of hydrogen was
monitored over time using the Alspek unit, and recorded. Between each
experiment, hydrogen was added into the aluminum bath, and the baseline before
the addition of the argon gas was determined.
                                            - 42  -

        [0108] An ultrasonic device similar to that illustrated in FIG. 5 was used in
Examples 1-3. The ultrasonic device did not have a cooling assembly, and the
purging gas was injected thru the tip of the ultrasonic probe. The ultrasonic probe
was 1" (2.5 cm) in diameter, and both the probe and tip (as a single part) were
constructed of a niobium alloy containing hafnium and titanium.
        [0109] FIG. 8 illustrates a plot of hydrogen concentration in mL of hydrogen
per 100 g of the aluminum alloy as a function of time after the addition of the
argon purging gas (and the activation of the ultrasonic device, if used). FIG. 8
demonstrates the each of Examples 1-3 degassed hydrogen from aluminum
significantly faster (using a purging gas and an ultrasonic device) than that of
Example 4, which only used a purging gas, but no ultrasonic device. Examples 2
3 performed slightly better than Example 1, which used a lower ultrasonic
vibration amplitude and a lower baseline power level for the ultrasonic power
supply.
Examples 5-6
        [0110] Examples 5-6 were large scale trials to determine the effectiveness
of using a purging gas and an ultrasonic device to remove hydrogen and
lithium/sodium impurities in a continuous casting experiment using aluminum alloy
5154 (containing magnesium). The temperature of the metal bath was
maintained at a temperature of about 1350 0 F (732 0 C).
        [0111] Sodium and lithium concentrations in weight percent were
determined using a spectrometer, and hydrogen concentrations were determined
using an Alscan hydrogen analyzer for molten aluminum. Example 5 was a
control experiment, and the prevailing sodium and lithium concentrations in the
                                              - 43 -

molten aluminum alloy of Example 5 were 0.00083% (8.3 ppm) and 0.00036%
(3.6 ppm), respectively. The hydrogen concentration in Example 5 was 0.41
mL/100g.
         [0112] The ultrasonic device of Examples 1-4 was used in Example 6 and
operated at 20,000 Hz. In conjunction with the operation of the ultrasonic device,
in Example 6, argon gas was added to the molten metal bath at a volumetric flow
rate of about 80-85 mL/hr per kg/hr of molten metal output (i.e., 80-85 mL purging
gas/kg molten metal). After the use of the ultrasonic device and the argon
purging gas, the sodium concentration in the molten aluminum alloy was below
the minimum detection limit of 0.0001% (1 ppm by weight), and the lithium
concentration in the molten aluminum alloy was 0.0003% (3 ppm by weight). The
hydrogen concentration in Example 6 was 0.35 mL/100g, a reduction of about
 15%.
Example 7
         [0113] In Example 7, a test was conducted to determine the useful life or
longevity of an ultrasonic device with a unitary Sialon probe, similar to that
illustrated in FIG. 6, operated in a launder containing molten aluminum at
approximately 1300 0 F (700 0 C).
         [0114] The ultrasonic device and probe were operated continuously, except
for a 3-hour maintenance shutdown unrelated to the ultrasonic device. The
elongated probe was 3/4" in diameter, was made from Sialon, and was operated
at about 20 kHz (19.97 kHz). Power levels were between 60 and 90 watts. Using
a digital gauge, the length of the probe was measured before and after use. The
probe tip was submerged for about 50 hours in the launder containing the molten
                                            - 44 -

aluminum while the ultrasonic device was operated at about 20 KHz. No purging
gas was used during this experiment, as it was deemed to be unnecessary for the
purpose of this test. After the 50-hour run time, the erosion of the probe was
measured to be 0.0182". This converts to an erosion rate of 3.64 x       1 0 -4 in/hour.
Generally, an ultrasonic probe can withstand up to about 1/4" of erosion before it
is deemed to be unfit for use. This leads to a theoretical lifetime of over 686
hours, or over 28 days, of continuous operation for the ceramic probe of Example
7.
        [0115] This probe lifetime is far superior to that of other metallic and
ceramic ultrasonic probes not designed, configured, or constructed as described
herein.
Examples 8-11
        [0116] Examples 8-11 were performed in a manner similar to Examples 5
6. Table 1 summarizes the results of the degassing experiments using Sialon
probes having the design of FIGS. 7A-7B (Example 8), the design of FIGS. 2A-2B
(Example 9), and the design of FIGS. 1A-1D (Example 10 and Example 11).
Table 1 also lists the flow rate of N2 , the power of the ultrasonic device, and the
reduction in H2 content of the metal in the molten metal bath. The results in Table
1 indicate that each of the probe designs was successful in significantly reducing
the amount of H2 gas in the molten metal bath, with Examples 9-11 and their
respective probe designs providing a greater reduction in H2 content. While not
wishing to be bound by theory, the design of FIGS. 2A-2B (Example 9) may
provide improved cavitation efficiency due to the recessed regions. As to the
design of FIGS. 1A-1 D (Example 10 and Example 11), and not wishing to be
                                              - 45 -

bound by theory, the multiple gas channel design may provide an increase in
overall gas flow (15-20 L/min in 3 channels vs. 5 L/min in one channel), whereas
using an equivalent 15-20 L/min gas velocity exiting the probe in a single channel
may be too high for certain molten metal applications, effectively "blowing" metal
away from the probe.
Table 1. Summary of Examples 8-11.
                      Probe
         Example   Diameter     Probe    Gas Flow       Power      Reduction
          Number    (inches)    Design      (L/min)    (Watts)      In H2 (%)
                                FIGS.
             8         0.75     7A-7B           5         80         42.8 %
                                FIGS.
             9         0.75     2A-2B           7        125         76.0 %
                                FIGS.
            10        0.875     1A-1D          15        100         57.3%
                                FIGS.
            11        0.875     1A-1D         20         100         74.5%
Examples 12-24
        [0117] Examples 12-24 were performed in a manner similar to Examples 5
6. Table 2 summarizes the results of the degassing experiments using Sialon
probes having the design of FIGS. 7A-7B (Examples 12-19) and the design of
FIGS. 1A-1 D (Examples 20-24). Table 2 also lists the flow rate of N2 , the power
of the ultrasonic device, and the sodium (Na) content before and after degassing
the metal in the molten metal bath. The results in Table 2 indicate that each of
the probe designs was successful in significantly reducing the impurity level of
sodium. However, and unexpectedly, with Examples 20-24 and the respective
probe design of FIGS. 1A-1D, the sodium was removed to undetectable levels
(shown as zero in Table 2, and less than 1 ppm by weight). While not wishing to
                                          -  46   -

be bound by theory, the improved design of FIGS. 1A-1 D (Examples 20-24) may
provide an increase in cavitation bubbles to collect and remove the sodium
impurity, but without decreasing the ultrasonic vibration efficiency and the
cavitation efficiency.
                                           - 47 -

Table 2. Summary of Examples 12-24.
            Sodium  Sodium    Probe
   Example  Before    After Diameter      Probe Gas Flow  Power
    Number   (ppm)   (ppm)   (inches)    Design  (L/min) (Watts)
      12       7        6
      13       5        3
      14       2        2
      15        1       1       0.75      FIGS.     5      80
      16       4        2                7A-7B
      17       8        3
      18       7        2
      19       4        2
      20       3        0
      21       5        0
      22       3        0      0.875      1AID     20      100
      23       6        0
      24       3        0
                                      -48-

Examples 25-27
        [0118] Examples 25-27 were performed in a manner similar to Examples
20-24, using a 0.875-inch diameter Sialon probe having the design of FIGS. 1A
1D, and operated at 100 watts and an argon gas flow rate of 20 L/min. The
surprising ability of the ultrasonic device with the probe design of FIGS. 1A-1 D to
significantly reduce the inclusion concentration in molten metal products was
evaluated using three different metal alloys (5052, 6201, and 4047).
        [0119] The amount of inclusions (mm2 /kg) before and the amount of
inclusions after ultrasonic degassing were determined by drawing respective
samples of the molten metal through a small filter under vacuum. The amount of
metal drawn through the filter was weighed and discarded. The metal in the filter
was allowed to solidify. The filter was then cut from the remaining sample and
sent to an ABB laboratory for PoDFA metallurgical analysis to determine the
amount of inclusions.
        [0120] Table 3 summarizes the % reduction in the total inclusions (or
inclusion concentration) as a result of the ultrasonic degassing process.
Unexpectedly, the ultrasonic degassing experiments of Examples 25-27 were
able to remove at least 55% of the inclusions, and in Example 25, over 98% of the
inclusions were removed.
        Table 3. Summary of Examples 25-27.
         Example                 Reduction In Total
          Number       Alloy        Inclusions (%)
            25         5052             98.4 %
            26         6201             80.2%
            27         4047             55.6 %
                                              - 49 -

THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS
1.      An ultrasonic device comprising:
        an ultrasonic transducer;
        an ultrasonic probe attached to the transducer, the probe comprising a tip,
a gas delivery channel extending through the probe, and a recessed region near
the tip of the probe; and
               a gas delivery system, the gas delivery system comprising:
                      a gas inlet,
                      a gas flow path through the gas delivery channel, and
                      a gas outlet at or near the tip of the probe.
2.      The ultrasonic device of claim 1, wherein the probe comprises stainless
steel, titanium, niobium, a ceramic, or a combination thereof.
3.      The ultrasonic device of claim 1 or 2, wherein a diameter of the recessed
region is from about 75 to about 85% of the diameter of the probe.
4.      The ultrasonic device of any one of the preceding claims, further
comprising a gas outlet in a recessed region.
5.      The ultrasonic device of any one of the preceding claims, wherein
        the probe comprises a ceramic;
        the probe comprises from two to five recessed regions; and
        at least one gas outlet is at the tip of the probe.
6.      The ultrasonic device of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
probe is a generally cylindrical elongated probe, and a ratio of a total length of the
recessed regions to a length of the elongated probe is in a range from about 10:1
to about 100:1.
7.      The ultrasonic device of the preceding any one of the preceding claims,
wherein:
                                              - 50 -

       the probe is a generally cylindrical elongated probe, and a length to
diameter ratio of the elongated probe is in a range from about 5:1 to about 25:1;
and
       a ratio of the cross-sectional area of the tip of the elongated probe to the
cross-sectional area of the gas delivery channel is in a range from about 30:1 to
about 1000:1.
8.     The ultrasonic device of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
ultrasonic device further comprises a booster between the transducer and the
probe, and the gas inlet is in the booster.
9.     The ultrasonic device of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
probe comprises a Sialon, a Silicon carbide, a Boron carbide, a Boron nitride, a
Silicon nitride, an Aluminum nitride, an Aluminum oxide, a Zirconia, or a
combination thereof.
10.    The ultrasonic device of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
recessed region is within about 2 cm of the tip of the probe.
11.    The ultrasonic device of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
ultrasonic device comprises from two to eight ultrasonic probes.
12.    A method for reducing an amount of a dissolved gas and/or an impurity in
a molten metal bath, the method comprising:
       (a)      operating the ultrasonic device of any one of claims 1 to 11 in the
molten metal bath; and
       (b)      introducing a purging gas into the gas delivery system, through the
gas delivery channel, and into the molten metal bath at a rate for each ultrasonic
probe in a range from about 0.1 to about 150 L/min.
13.    The method of claim 12, wherein:
       the purging gas is introduced into the molten metal bath at a rate for each
ultrasonic probe in a range from about 1 to about 50 L/min;
                                            - 51 -

        the dissolved gas comprises oxygen, hydrogen, sulfur dioxide, or a
combination thereof;
        the impurity comprises an alkali metal;
        the molten metal bath comprises aluminum, copper, zinc, steel,
magnesium, or a combination thereof;
        the purging gas comprises nitrogen, helium, neon, argon, krypton, xenon,
SF 6 , chlorine, or a combination thereof; or
         any combination thereof.
14.     The method of claim 12 or 13, wherein:
         the impurity comprises sodium, and an amount of sodium in the molten
metal bath is reduced to less than 1 ppm; and/or
         an amount of total inclusions in the molten metal bath is reduced by at
least about 50 wt. %.
15.     The method of any one of claims 12-14, wherein the method comprises
operating from two to sixteen ultrasonic devices in the molten metal bath.
                                             - 52 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
