                                             - 23
  ABSTRACT
  An apparatus for cutting honeycomb from a honey frame comprising a frame with an
  opening for inserting a honey frame and at least one blade supported by the frame. The at
5 least one blade is adapted to pivot between a first position where a honey frame can be
  inserted into the opening and a second position where the blade will cut the honeycomb.

     1/12
                 10
          5f
               B
     9              6
3
                           7
                         2
  .-         9        -4

                                                   - 1
                                 HONEY SCRAPING APPARATUS
      FIELD OF THE INVENTION
  5
     The invention relates to an apparatus and method for removing honeycomb from honey
     frames.
      BACKGROUND
 10
     Traditional honey frames have a solid outer frame and an internal region where honeybees
     build their honeycomb cell structure to fill with honey.
     A traditional method of collecting honeycomb includes removing honey frames from a
 15  honey super in a beehive and transporting those frames away from the hives to a
     processing facility where the honey can be extracted from the honeycomb. However,
     transportation of honey frames is a labourious exercise because: effort is required to
     manoeuvre the heavy filled honey frames to a vehicle, frames must be transported to a
     remote processing facility, and the processed honey frames must be returned to the
20   beehives.
     It is an object of the present invention to provide an improved method of collecting honey
     and/or an improved apparatus for collecting honey which overcomes or at least
     ameliorates some of the abovementioned disadvantages or which at least provides the
25   public with a useful choice.
     In this specification, where reference has been made to external sources of information,
     including patent specifications and other documents, this is generally for the purpose of
     providing a context for discussing the features of the present invention. Unless stated
30  otherwise, reference to such sources of information is not to be construed, in any
    jurisdiction, as an admission that such sources of information are prior art or form part of
    the common general knowledge in the art.
    SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
35
    In one aspect the invention may broadly be said to consist in an apparatus adapted to cut
    honeycomb from a honey frame comprising an enclosure having an upper portion defining
    an opening and a lower portion adapted to reside atop a collection apparatus,
    a blade located proximate the opening having a cutting surface, the blade defining a first
40  region of the opening where a honey frame is to be inserted and a second region of the

                                                   -2
     opening where cut honeycomb is to fall, and wherein the blade is inclined in a direction
     toward the first region.
     According to a further aspect the invention may broadly be said to consist an apparatus
  5  adapted to cut honeycomb from a honey frame comprising an enclosure having an upper
     portion defining an opening and a lower portion adapted to reside atop a collection
     apparatus, a blade assembly located proximate the opening and comprising at least a first
     and a second opposing blade, each having a cutting surface, and wherein at least the first
     blade is pivotable, relative to a second blade, between at least a first position, where at
 10  least one blade is pivoted into a first configuration where the cutting surfaces are distal,
     and a second position, where at least one blade is pivoted into a second configuration
     where the cutting surface are proximate.
     According to a further aspect the invention may broadly be said to consist in an apparatus
 15  adapted to cut honeycomb from a honey frame comprising an enclosure having an upper
     portion defining an opening and a lower portion adapted to reside atop a collection
     apparatus, an arrangement of opposing blades, supported by the enclosure, comprising at
     least first and second opposing blades, each blade having a cutting surface, the first blade
     arranged to contact one face of a honey frame and the second blade arranged to contact
20   an opposing face of the honey frame, wherein the blades are moveable between a first
     position where a honey frame can be inserted, and a second position where the blades
    engage with the honey frame.
    According to a further aspect the invention may broadly be said to consist in an apparatus
25  adapted to cut honeycomb from a honey frame comprising an enclosure having an upper
    portion defining an opening and a lower portion adapted to reside atop a collection
    apparatus, an arrangement of opposing blades, supported by the enclosure, comprising at
    least first and second opposing blades, each blade having a cutting surface, the first blade
    arranged to contact one side of a honey frame and the second blade arranged to contact
30  an opposing side of the honey frame, the blades having an insertion and a cutting position,
    wherein in the insertion position, the blades are inclined and outwardly tilted to form a first
     I I like shape, and wherein in the cutting position, the blades are inclined and inwardly
    tilted to form a /\ like shape.
35  According to a further aspect the invention may broadly be said to consist in an apparatus
    for cutting honeycomb from a honey frame comprising a frame having an opening for
    inserting a honey frame, and at least one blade supported by the frame and wherein the at

                                                  -3
     least one blade is adapted to pivot between a first position where a honey frame can be
     inserted into the opening and a second position where the blade will cut the honeycomb.
     According to a further aspect the invention may broadly be said to consist in an apparatus
  5  adapted to cut honeycomb from a honey frame comprising a frame having an upper
     portion defining an opening and a lower portion adapted to reside atop a collection
     apparatus, an arrangement of opposing blades, supported by the enclosure, comprising at
     least first and second opposing blades, each blade having a cutting surface, the first blade
     arranged to contact one side of a honey frame and the second blade arranged to contact
10   an opposing side of the honey frame, the blades having an insertion and a cutting position,
     wherein in the insertion position, the blades are inclined and outwardly tilted to form a first
     I I like shape, and wherein in the cutting position, the blades are inclined and inwardly
    tilted to form a /\ like shape.
15  According to a further aspect the invention may broadly be said to consist in a method of
    using the apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the method comprises the
    steps of moving one or more blades into an outward position, inserting a honey frame,
    containing honeycomb, proximate the one or more blades, moving one or more blades into
    contact with the honeycomb to provide a cutting action, forcing the honey frame downward
20  so as to cause a cutting action that severs the honeycomb from the honey frame.
    According to a further aspect the invention may broadly be said to consist in a method of
    using the apparatus as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the method comprises the
    steps of removing a honey frame from a bee hive, cutting honeycomb the honey frame
25  according to the apparatus of any preceding claim, collecting honeycomb cut from the
    honey frame in a collection apparatus, and placing the honey frame back into the bee hive.
    Preferably the apparatus further comprises a support or supporting wall supported by the
    frame and opposing the blade, the supporting wall adapted to press against the
30  honeycomb or honey frame when the blade is in the second position.
    In some embodiments the at least one blade comprises a first blade and the support or
    supporting wall comprises at least a second blade arranged to oppose the first blade.
35  In some embodiments the second blade is adapted to pivot between the first position
    where a honey frame can be inserted between the first and second blades and the second
    position where the first and second blades will cut the honeycomb.

                                                 -4
     In some embodiments the first and/or second blades are supported by the frame by one or
     more support members.
     In some embodiments the one or more support members are rotationally supported by the
  5  frame.
     In some embodiments the frame comprises an enclosure and side walls, the enclosure
     adapted to be fastened to the side walls by one or more fasteners.
 10  In some embodiments at least one of the sidewalls or enclosure is adapted to engage with
     the collection apparatus.
     In some embodiments the first blade is adapted to contact a first face of the honey frame
     and the second blade is adapted to contact a second face, opposite the first face.
15
     In some embodiments the enclosure comprises at least two opposing walls.
     In some embodiments the first and second blades are respectively supported by a first and
     a second support member adapted to span between the at least two opposing walls.
20
     In some embodiments the first and second blades further comprise a mounting surface.
     In some embodiments the mounting surface is attached or is attachable to a supporting
     member by one or more fastening devices.
25
     In some embodiments the blades are arranged to allow insertion of the honey frame
     between the upper and inward edges.
    In some embodiments the first blade is pivotable and the second blade is fixed.
30
    In some embodiments the lower portion of the enclosure or frame is profiled to allow
    engagement with a collection apparatus.
    In some embodiments one or more blades are heated by any one or more of an electrical
35  element or a hot fluid.
    In some embodiments one or more blades has coupled, directly or indirectly, a handle
    adapted to provide leverage to the one or more blades.

                                                  - 5
     In some embodiments the apparatus further comprises a biasing device connecting the
     handle to the enclosure or frame, the biasing device configured to bias the handle to an
     inward or cutting position.
  5  In some embodiments the apparatus further comprises a lid adapted to substantially cover
     the opening.
     In some embodiments the device resides atop a collection apparatus.
 10  According to a further aspect the invention may broadly be said to consist in a method of
     using the apparatus, wherein the method comprises the steps of:
     *       removing a honey frame from a bee hive,
     *       cutting honeycomb from the honey frame,
     *       collecting honeycomb cut from the honey frame in a collection apparatus, and
 15  e       placing the honey frame back into the bee hive.
     In some embodiments the method further comprises transporting the honeycomb to a
     honey processing facility.
20  According to a further aspect the invention may broadly be said to consist in a system for
    collecting honey comprising:
             providing at least one the apparatus of any above statement to one or more users
    to collect honey by way of:
     *      leasing the apparatus to one or more users,
25   *      selling the apparatus to one or more users,
    e       allowing supervised use of the apparatus by one or more users,
    o       arranging use of the apparatus by a club wherein the one or more users belong to
    that club, and/or
    a       receiving remuneration from the one or more users for return of the apparatus,
30  and one or more of:
    a       receiving honey collected by the apparatus,
    a       remunerating the one or more users for collecting honey,
    a       remunerating the one or more users for freighting collected honey,
    *       remunerating the one or more users for freighting collected honey to a honey
35  processing facility, and/or
    0       remunerating the one or more users for freighting collected honey to a
    predetermined location.

                                                   - 6
     According to a further aspect the invention may broadly be said to consist in a system for
     collecting honey comprising:
     one or more apparatus for cutting honeycomb from a honey frame claimed in any above
     statement to one or more users to collect honey,
  5  a honey processing facility, and
     wherein the one or more apparatus is provided to one or more users in exchange for one
     or more of:
     *        receiving honey collected by the apparatus,
     *        remunerating the one or more users for collecting honey,
 10  *        remunerating the one or more users for freighting collected honey,
     *       remunerating the one or more users for freighting collected honey to the honey
     processing facility, and/or
     *       remunerating the one or more users for freighting collected honey to a
     predetermined location,
15
     In some embodiments the method comprises the steps of:
     providing the apparatus to one or more users,
     receiving honey collected by the one or more users, and
     remunerating one or more users in exchange for the honey collected.
20
    In some embodiments the method further comprises processing the honey collected at a
    honey processing facility.
    In some embodiments the method comprises the steps of:
25  cutting honeycomb from a the honey frame,
    transporting the honeycomb to a honey processing or storage facility.
    According to a further aspect the invention may broadly be said to consist in a system for
    managing honey collection comprising:
30  providing the apparatus of any above statement to one or more users,
    a database configured to store data pertaining to:
    *        one or more users undertaking the method according to any above statement,
    *        data relating to honey collected by the one or more users,
    wherein the database is updated at least when honey collected using the apparatus is
35  received from one or more users.
    According to a further aspect the invention may broadly be said to consist in a system for
    managing honey collection wherein data comprises one or more of:

                                                   -7-
     a       a quantity of bee hives,
     0       identification of the user of the apparatus,
     e       a quantity of honey collected,
     0       the location where the apparatus has been used,
  5  *       the time spent with the apparatus, and/or
     *       the time when the honey was collected.
    According to a further aspect the invention may broadly be said to consist in a method of
    collecting honey comprising: to each of a plurality of users operating beehives, providing
 10 one or more apparatus of any above statement, receiving, from two or more of the users,
     honey collected from their beehives using the apparatus, at one or more bulk honey
    facilities.
    In some embodiments the method further comprises storing, processing, packaging,
 15 distributing, and/or trading the honey received at one or more of the bulk honey facilities
    and/or otherwise dealing with the honey received at the one or more bulk honey facilities.
    The following embodiments may relate to any of the above aspects. Other aspects of the
    invention may become apparent from the following description which is given by way of
20  example only and with reference to the accompanying drawings.
    As used herein "(s)" following a noun means the plural and/or singular forms of the noun.
    The term "and/or" means "and" or "or", or both.
25
    The term "comprising" as used in this specification means "consisting at least in part of".
    When interpreting statements in this specification which include that term, the features,
    prefaced by that term in each statement or claim, all need to be present but other features
    can also be present. Related terms such as "comprise" and "comprised" are to be
30  interpreted in the same manner.
    This invention may also be said broadly to consist in the parts, elements and features
    referred to or indicated in the specification of the application, individually or collectively,
    and any or all combinations of any two or more of said parts, elements or features, and
35  where specific integers are mentioned herein which have known equivalents in the art to
    which this invention relates, such known equivalents are deemed to be incorporated herein
    as if individually set forth.

                                                  - 8
     To those skilled in the art to which the invention relates, many changes in construction and
     widely differing embodiments and applications of the invention will suggest themselves
     without departing from the scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims. The
     disclosures and the descriptions herein are purely illustrative and are not intended to be in
  5  any sense limiting.
     BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
     The invention will now be described by way of example only and with reference to the
 10  drawings in which:
     Figure 1 shows a perspective view of an apparatus according to one embodiment of the
     invention.
15   Figure 2(a) and 2(b) show a side view of the apparatus and a honey frame containing
     honey comb.
     Figure 3 shows a perspective view of an apparatus according to another embodiment of
    the invention incorporating further optional features.
20
    Figure 4 shows a cross sectional view of one example of a honey frame suitable for use
    with the invention.
    Figure 5 shows an apparatus according to a further embodiment of the invention.
25
    Figures 6(a) and 6(b) show side profiles of the apparatus according to the embodiment
    of figure 5.
    Figure 7 shows a cross sectional side view of the embodiment of figures 5 and 6.
30
    Figure 8 shows a top view of the apparatus with blades removed as may apply to any
    embodiment.
    Figure 9 shows a side view of the apparatus on top of a collection apparatus according to
35  any embodiment.
    Figure 10 shows a profile view of a further embodiment of the apparatus with a handle
    connected with a lid in an open position.

                                                  -9
      Figure 11 shows a profile view of the embodiment of Figure 10 with the lid in the closed
      position.
      Figure 12 shows a diagram of methods of use of the above described apparatus as part of
  5  a wider system for managing the collection of honey.
     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
 10  Conventional methods of collecting honeycomb involve removing honey frames from a bee
     hive and transporting them to processing facility at some distant location. In the
     processing facility, the honey is removed from the honey frames. A disadvantage of this
     conventional method lies with the requirement for transportation of the honey frames to a
     distant location. Honey frames containing honeycomb are often very heavy and require a
 15  significant amount of labour to be loaded into a vehicle for transportation. Further, the
     honey frames, once stripped of honey at the processing facility, must be transported back
     to the location of the bee hive and replaced, which requires more time and energy.
    The invention is an apparatus that is easily transportable to the location of a bee hive so
20   that honey frames can be stripped of honey without requiring them to be removed from
    the site of the hive. The invention is also a method of collecting honey. The invention may
     also relate to a method of using the apparatus as part of a system.
     Figure 1 shows an apparatus 10 having an outer frame or walls 7 comprising a number of
25  sidewalls that form an enclosure for a blade assembly. When in use, the frame 7 is
     preferably perched on top of a collection apparatus such as a food grade bucket (see, for
    example, Figure 9). Honey frames freshly removed from a hive have the honey and
    honeycomb cut from the honey frames. The honey frames can then be returned straight to
    the hive without having to be removed from the site of the hives. The collection apparatus
30  collects the honey and honeycomb material dislodged from the honey frame.
    Figure 4 shows a cross sectional view of one example of a honey frame 30 suitable for use
    with the apparatus. The honey frame preferably comprises an outer frame 31 formed from
    a plastic material. However, wooden members may form part or the entire outer frame. In
35  the centre of the frame is a dividing wall 32 which is the surface on which bees begin to
    construct their honeycomb. The outer frame preferably consists of upper, lower and side
    frame members that encapsulate the dividing wall 32. To promote engagement of the bees
    to construct the honeycomb, the wall 32 may have a surface contour or texture which also
    resembles a honeycomb structure. The honey frame 30 has a pair of interior regions 33

                                                   - 10
     either side of the wall 32 where the honeycomb is outwardly built by the bees. The
     apparatus allows the honeycomb and honey to be removed from the interior regions 33
     and severed from the internal wall 32.
  5  Referring again to Figure 1, the blade assembly is preferably located at the upper region of
     the frame 7. In preferred embodiments the blade assembly includes at least two opposing
     blades. Preferably a first blade is orientated so that a cutting edge will contact one face of
     a honey frame 30 and the cutting edge of another blade is orientated to contact the
     opposing face of the honey frame. However, alternative embodiments containing a single
 10  blade may also be employed and will be later discussed.
     In the preferred embodiment, a first blade 5 is rigidly fixed to a supporting member 3
     which is in turn rigidly supported within the frame 7. The first blade 5 has an incline such
     that a surface is provided that slopes upwardly in a direction from the supporting member
 15  3. A second blade 6 is mounted to a second supporting member 2. The second blade 6 is
     pivotable relative to the first blade such that there is an adjustable separation gap 9
     between the edges of the first and second blades. The second blade 6 is pivotable about
    the axis A-A of the support member 2.
20   In use, the second bade is pivoted between at least a first position, known as an insertion
     position, where the gap 9 is sufficient to allow a honey frame to be inserted and a second
     position, known as a cutting position, where the gap 9 is closed such that the blades 5, 6
    can cut into the honeycomb within the frame.
25  In another embodiment, the first blade 5 is attached to a supporting member 3 which is in
    turn pivotally supported within the frame 7. The first blade 5 is pivotable to provide a
    range of inclination angles an incline such that a surface is provided that slopes upwardly
    in a direction from the supporting member 3. A second blade 6 is mounted to a second
    supporting member 2. Preferably the first blade 5 and second blade 6 are pivotable such
30  that there is an adjustable separation gap 9 between the edges of the first and second
    blades. Preferably the first blade 5 is pivotable about the axis B-B of the support member
    3. Pivoting blades are preferably manoeuvred into position by hand.
    In use, the first and second blades are pivoted between at least a first or insertion position
35  where the gap 9 is sufficient to allow a honey frame 30 to be inserted and a second or
    cutting position where the gap 9 is closed such that the blades 5, 6 can cut into the
    honeycomb within the frame.

                                                 - 11
     Figure 2(a) shows a side view of the apparatus 10 and a honey frame 30 containing
     honeycomb 35 and honey that, for example, has been freshly removed from a bee hive.
     The honey frame 30 is positioned above the blades 5, 6 of the apparatus 10. The blades 5,
     6 are adequately separated, by virtue of the first and/or second blades being pivoted
  5  outward to increase the gap 9 sufficiently, to allow the honey frame 30 to be positioned
     between them. Preferably the blades perform a cut into the honeycomb to the dividing wall
     32 by pivoting one or both blades inwardly. The blades preferably penetrate beneath the
     layer of honeycomb to meet either side at or substantially close to the dividing wall 32
     such as shown in Figure 2(b). The honey frame 30 may then be forced downward and
 10  through the blades in the direction indicated by the arrows, for example, by hand. The
     honey frame is pressed down until an edge, for example the top edge, of the frame 31
     engages the blades.
    The blades cut between the face of the dividing wall 32 and the honeycomb as the honey
 15  frame is forced between the blades. The honeycomb 35 is stripped from the dividing wall
     of the honey frame and slides across the upper surface of the blades and falls through the
     gap 8 between the outer blade edge and the walls 7. The honeycomb 35 preferably falls to
    the bottom of the apparatus 7 and into a collection apparatus located below (which is
    described below).
20
    The upward and inward inclination of the blades facilitates active retention in the cutting
     position as the honey frame is being forced downward. The blades are biased inwardly by
    virtue of their inward slant and the downward force of the honeycomb pressing upon the
    top surface. The blades may then be separated by pivoting on or both outwardly so that
25  the honey frame 30 can be removed from the confines of the apparatus 10. When the
    honeycomb frame is lifted from the blades the blades are no longer being pressed on from
    above and are free to pivot outwardly or may be pivoted outwardly by hand.
    The frame 7 is preferably shaped so that the lower region 4 will engage the collection
30  apparatus 50 with a snug yet easily releasable fit. The engagement is preferably one where
    bees are prevented from pass there between yet the frame can easily be lifted without
    much or any effort required to separate the frame from the collection apparatus.
    Figures 6(a) and 6(b) show one possible option where side profiles of the apparatus 10
35  and in particular show a lower region of the sidewalls that optionally incorporate an inward
    taper 40 to help location atop the collection apparatus 50 and/or optionally incorporate
    recessed portions 41 that may engage with corners of the collection apparatus 50. The

                                                   - 12
     taper 40 and/or the upper wall 42 of the recess 41 prevent the apparatus 10 from sinking
     too far into a collection apparatus to ensure that it can be easily removed again.
     Optionally the lower region is shaped to provide recessed corner portions which provide a
  5  seating surface that stabilises the frame 7 atop of the collection apparatus. Figure 9 shows
     the apparatus 10 on top of the collection apparatus 50. The collection apparatus 50 is
     positioned below the blades to catch falling honeycomb that has been cut from the frame.
     The apparatus may then be removed from atop the collection apparatus and the opening of
 10  the collection apparatus 50 sealed. The sealed collection apparatus containing the
     honeycomb may then be transported from the site of the beehives and the honey
     extracted from the honeycomb by any appropriate method.
     In some embodiments, a heating device may be applied to or integrated within one or
15   more cutting blades. Appropriate heating devices include electric elements or the
     application of hot fluids. Electrical elements could be powered by, for example, the battery
     in a nearby vehicle. Heating the blades provides faster and smoother cutting action
    through the honeycomb by reducing the viscosity of the surrounding honeycomb and
    therefore the friction. Heated blades may advantageously lower the processing time and
20  the force required to cut honeycomb from a honey frame.
     Figure 3 shows a perspective view of another embodiment incorporating further optional
    features. The blade assembly may be incorporated into the sidewalls of the device or
    alternatively, as shown, supported by an enclosure or sub-assembly 12 that can reside on
25  the upper surface of the apparatus wall 7 or some other appropriate support. Provision of
    the blade and support assembly separate from the apparatus wall 7 allows these
    components to be easily separated for cleaning purposes and component interchange
    ability. For example, blade assemblies with differing dimensions could be installed to suit
    different sized honey frames. Blades may further be detachable from the support
30  mechanisms to facilitate cleaning of the components.
    In the embodiment of Figure 3, the first blade 5 is attached to the support 3 which is in
    turn fixed to the interior of the enclosure 12. The second blade 6 is attached to the second
    support 2 and is allowed to pivot. The pivoting mechanism may be, for example, a round
35  support 2 rotating about axis A-A in a round hole appropriately positioned in the side of the
    enclosure 12.

                                                  - 13
     A handle 11 is provided to improve control of the rotation of the pivotable blade 6 and
     adjust the separation gap 9 between the first and second blades. The handle 11 also
     provides improved leverage and may be used to force the pivotable blade 6 into a
     honeycomb and against the opposing blade 5 to initiate a cutting action.
  5
     A stop 18 is provided in the sidewall of the enclosure 12 and within the arc of movement of
     the handle about the rotation axis A-A such that the handle can contact the stop during
     rotation. The stop may be provided to limit the inward rotation of the handle, and
     therefore the blade 6, to prevent inadvertent cutting of the honey frame. Preferably the
 10  stop is positioned according to the desired depth of the cut to be made into the
     honeycomb. A user may grasp the handle and force the blades the cutting position where
     the honeycomb is cut by the blades, while relying on the handle contacting the stop 18 to
     limit movement of the blade beyond a safe limit.
15   A recess 13 is preferably provided in the apparatus walls 7 to allow for the handle 11 and
     supporting shaft 2 to reside. One or a plurality of fasteners 17 with complimentary
     apertures 16 may be provided to lock the enclosure 12 to the walls 7.
     A lid 14 is preferably attached to the top of the enclosure 12 or the device walls 7 by way
20   of a hinge 15. The lid 14 allows a user to close the top of the apparatus 10 to prevent bees
     or other debris from entering the interior when not being attended. For example, when a
     honey frame is stripped of honeycomb, the lid may be closed while the stripped honey
    frame is returned to the hive and a new honeycomb is retrieved.
25  In use, the enclosure 12 can be placed on top of the walls 7 of the apparatus and the
    assembly fastened together by making use of the fastening holes 16 and fasteners 17. The
    fastened assembly is position on a collection apparatus 50 and honey frames can be
    inserted between the blades 5, 6 where honeycomb can be cut from the frame according
    to the action described above.
30
    Figure 5 shows a further embodiment where at least one of the blades 5, 6 is biased
    inwardly by biasing device 19 such as a coil spring. The biasing device is connected
    between the handle 11 and preferably the frame 7 to provide a compressive force. The
    biasing device 19 allows the handle 11 to be used to open the cutting blades to insert a
35  honey frame. When the handle is released, one or more blades will be pulled inward to cut
    the honeycomb on the honey frame and held in the cutting position. The stop 18 may limit
    the extent of which the biasing device can move the blade.

                                                  - 14
     Figure 7 shows a cross sectional side view of another embodiment and in particular shows
     the support members 2, 3 having blacking plates 43 that support the blades 5, 6. The
     blacking plates are preferably shaped to allow a range of blades to be attached by way of a
     fastener 44. Figure 8 shows a top view of the device 10 where the blades are removed
  5  and the backing plates 43 are clearly shown with fastening apertures 44. However, any
     appropriate releasable attachment between the blades and the backing plates could be
     used.
     In another embodiment preferably incorporate a single blade for is arranged within the
 10  walls 7 of the apparatus 10. The blade is arranged such that is will engage one side of a
     honey frame while a supporting wall or similar component is preferably provided on the
     opposing side of the frame to the blade to allow the frame to be pressed against for
     leverage. In a further variation, the blade could be angled downward and the honey frame
     arranged to be pulled upward and against the blade. In each single blade embodiment, the
 15  blade forced between the honeycomb and the dividing wall 32 such that the honeycomb is
     cut from the frame. To facilitate the blade cutting into the honeycomb, the blade may be
     pivotable by way of being fixed to a rotational support member as described above. The
     blade may be rotated into a cutting position by pivoting it away from the support such that
     a honey frame can be inserted. The blade may then be pivoted into a cutting position to
20   close the gap and cut into the honey frame.
     Figure 10 shows a profile view of a further embodiment of the apparatus with the handle
     11 connected with the lid 14 in an open position and Figure 11 shows a profile view of the
    embodiment of Figure 10 with the lid 14 in the closed position. In this embodiment, an arm
25   51 with a point of articulation connects the handle 11 to the lid 14 such that movement of
    these items occurs in unison. The point of articulation is located proximate the handle end
    such that the lid at first moves slowly from the open position and then quicker into the
    closed position with steady movement of the handle 11.
30  The method of collecting honey from a bee hive using the apparatus 10 is as follows. The
    device 10 is transported to the location of a bee hive. Hives are often located in remote of
    rural locations and often require some effort to travel to. The apparatus 10 can be
    assembled on top of a collection apparatus such as a food grade bucket.
35  Honey frames are removed from the hive by usual apiculturist methods. The width and
    height of the particular blades used may be fitted according to the dimensions of the honey
    frames to be stripped.

                                                  - 15
     A honey frame can be lowered into the apparatus 10 according to any of the embodiments
     described and one of both blades 5, 6 closed to cut into the honey comb. The honey frame
     may then be pushed downward such that the blades cut between the honeycomb and the
     dividing wall 32 of the honey frame 30. The honey frame may be rotated within or
  5  externally to the blades such that the blades may reach any of the corners or edges
     missed by the blades during the first cutting movement. The honeycomb cut from the
     frame preferably falls into a collection apparatus located below.
     When the honeycomb is cut from the honey frame, the frame may be placed back into the
 10  hive for the bees to begin rebuilding new honeycomb and honey. The process may be
     repeated as many times as necessary. A collection apparatus full of honeycomb may be
     swapped out from under the apparatus 10 and replaced with an empty collection
     apparatus.
15  The full collection apparatus is preferably sealed with a lid. The collection apparatus full of
     honeycomb can be transported to a facility for separating the honey from the honeycomb.
    Use of the apparatus 10 means that honey frames with the honeycomb cut from them are
    not required to be transported to another location for further processing. This
20  advantageously does away with the requirement for another trip to the location of the
    beehives to replace the empty honey frames. Collection apparatus can easily be
    transported from the site of the beehive to a processing facility where the honey can be
    extracted. The collection apparatus can be cleaned in the processing facility and stored
    until they are required at another time.
25
    Figure 12 shows a diagram an exemplary system for managing use of the above
    described apparatus 10 and the collection of honey. In this example, the apparatus 10 is
    provided to a user or group of users 64 for which they will use to collect honey from
    beehives.
30
    A management subsystem 63 arranges provision 70 of the apparatus 10 to the user or
    group of users 64. In exchange for use of the apparatus 10, the user or group of users
    may lease the apparatus, provide remuneration, be sold the apparatus and/or be provided
    with an apparatus under supervision. In some embodiments the user or group of users 64
35  comprises a club or organisation with membership. The group of users could be spread
    across different regions, for example, where the users are bee keepers responsible for
    managing hives across various locations.

                                                   - 16
      In the system of Figure 12 the users or group of users 64 make use of the apparatus 10
     and collect honey 35 from beehives. The collected honey is then returned to a honey
      processing facility 61 directly 69 or transported 68 to a temporary storage area 62. The
     storage area may be managed by the management subsystem 63 or by a third party such
  5  as a transportation or logistics facilitator before eventually being transported to the honey
     processing facility 61. Once the honey is received at the honey processing facility it can be
     processed for use, storage, packaging or otherwise prepared for commercialisation.
     In return for receiving honey from the user or group of users, the management subsystem
 10  provides to the user or group of users, and/or the transportation or logistics facilitator,
     remuneration for collecting honey and/or remuneration for transportation of the collected
     honey. In some embodiments the remuneration is merely the use of the apparatus 10. In
     some embodiments the honey is sold and the financial gain from the sales is used to
     remunerate the users or groups of users.
 15
     In some embodiments, a database 71 is provided to maintain records of honey collected
     and/or being transported and/or apparatus 10 in use. For example, the database 71 may
     receive information 67 pertaining to honey received and/or being processed at the honey
     processing facility 61. The database may further receive information 65 pertaining to
20   honey being stored at the storage area 62. The database may further receive 66
     information from the user or group of user 64. In some embodiments the database is
    configured to store information pertaining to one or more of, for example: a quantity of
     bee hives accessible by a user or group of users, identification of the user of the apparatus
     10, a quantity of honey collected by any user or group of users, the location where the
25  apparatus 10 has been used, the time spent with the apparatus 10, and/or the time when
    the honey was collected.
    In other exemplary uses, one or more apparatus 10 is provided to each of a plurality of
    users operating beehives, receiving, from two or more of the users, honey collected from
30  their beehives using the apparatus the honey at one or more bulk honey facilities. Upon
    reception the honey is then stored, processed, packaged, distributed, and/or traded at one
    or more of the bulk honey facilities and/or otherwise dealt with.
    Where in the foregoing description reference has been made to elements or integers
35  having known equivalents, then such equivalents are included as if they were individually
    set forth. Although the invention has been described by way of example and with reference
    to particular embodiments, it is to be understood that modifications and/or improvements
    may be made without departing from the scope of the invention as set out by the claims.

                                                  - 17
     CLAIMS
     1.       An apparatus for cutting honeycomb from a honey frame comprising:
              a frame having an opening for inserting a honey frame, and
  5           at least one blade supported by the frame and wherein the at least one blade is
    adapted to pivot between a first position where a honey frame can be inserted into the
    opening and a second position where the blade will cut the honeycomb.
    2. An apparatus as claimed in any claim 1, wherein the apparatus further comprises a
 10      support or supporting wall supported by the frame and opposing the blade, the
         supporting wall adapted to press against the honeycomb or honey frame when the
          blade is in the second position.
    3. An apparatus as claimed in claim 2, wherein the at least one blade comprises a first
15       blade and the support or supporting wall comprises at least a second blade arranged to
         oppose the first blade.
    4. An apparatus as claimed in claim 3, wherein the second blade is adapted to pivot
         between the first position where a honey frame can be inserted between the first and
20       second blades and the second position where the first and second blades will cut the
         honeycomb.
    5.   An apparatus as claimed in claims 3 or 4, wherein the first and/or second blades are
         supported by the frame by one or more support members.
25
    6. An apparatus as claimed in claim 5, wherein the one or more support members are
         rotationally supported by the frame.
    7. An apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the frame comprises an
30       enclosure and side walls, the enclosure adapted to be fastened to the side walls by one
         or more fasteners.
    8. An apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein at least one of the
        sidewalls or enclosure is adapted to engage with the collection apparatus.
35
    9. An apparatus adapted to cut honeycomb from a honey frame comprising:
             a frame having an upper portion defining an opening and a lower portion adapted to
        reside atop a collection apparatus,
             an arrangement of opposing blades, supported by the enclosure, comprising at least
40      first and second opposing blades, each blade having a cutting surface, the first blade

                                                   - 18
         arranged to contact one side of a honey frame and the second blade arranged to
         contact an opposing side of the honey frame, the blades having an insertion and a
         cutting position,
             wherein in the insertion position, the blades are inclined and outwardly tilted to
  5      form a first I I like shape, and
             wherein in the cutting position, the blades are inclined and inwardly tilted to form a
        /\ like shape.
    10. An apparatus as claimed in claim 9, wherein the first blade is adapted to contact a first
10       face of the honey frame and the second blade is adapted to contact a second face,
         opposite the first face.
    11. An apparatus as claimed in claim 9 or 10, wherein the enclosure comprises at least two
        opposing walls.
15
    12. An apparatus as claimed in claim 11, wherein the first and second blades are
        respectively supported by a first and a second support member adapted to span
        between the at least two opposing walls.
20  13. An apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 3 to 12, wherein the first and second
        blades further comprise a mounting surface.
    14. An apparatus as claimed in claim 13, wherein the mounting surface is attached or is
        attachable to a supporting member by one or more fastening devices.
25
    15.An apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 3 to 14, wherein the blades are arranged
        to allow insertion of the honey frame between the upper and inward edges.
    16. An apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 3 to 15, wherein the first blade is
30      pivotable and the second blade is fixed.
    17. An apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 16, wherein the lower portion of the
        enclosure or frame is profiled to allow engagement with a collection apparatus.
35  18. An apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 17, wherein one or more blades are
        heated by any one or more of an electrical element or a hot fluid.

                                                   - 19
     19. An apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 18, wherein one or more blades has
         coupled, directly or indirectly, a handle adapted to provide leverage to the one or more
         blades.
  5  20.An apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 19, wherein the apparatus further
         comprises a biasing device connecting the handle to the enclosure or frame, the biasing
         device configured to bias the handle to an inward or cutting position.
     21.An apparatus as claimed in any one of claims I to 20, wherein the apparatus further
10       comprises a lid adapted to substantially cover the opening.
    22.An apparatus as claimed in claim 21, wherein the apparatus further comprises a
         coupling arm connecting the lid to the handle wherein the coupling arm has a point of
         articulation.
15
    23. A method of using the apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 21, wherein the
         method comprises the steps of:
                      moving one or more blades into an outward position,
                      inserting a honey frame, containing honeycomb, proximate the one or more
20            blades,
                      moving one or more blades into contact with the honeycomb to provide a
             cutting action,
                      forcing the honey frame downward so as to cause a cutting action that
    severs the honeycomb from the honey frame.
25
    24. A method of using the apparatus as claimed in claim 23, wherein the device resides
        atop a collection apparatus.
    25. A method of using the apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 21, wherein the
30      method comprises the steps of:
             "   removing a honey frame from a bee hive,
             *   cutting honeycomb from the honey frame,
             "   collecting honeycomb cut from the honey frame in a collection apparatus, and
             "   placing the honey frame back into the bee hive.
35
    26. A method of using the apparatus as claimed in claim 25 wherein the method further
        comprises transporting the honeycomb to a honey processing facility.
    27.A system for collecting honey comprising:

                                                - 20
            providing at least one the apparatus of any claimed in any one of claims 1 to 21 to
     one or more users to collect honey by way of:
         *  leasing the apparatus to one or more users,
         *  selling the apparatus to one or more users,
  5      *  allowing supervised use of the apparatus by one or more users,
         *  arranging use of the apparatus by a club wherein the one or more users belong to
            that club, and/or
         o  receiving remuneration from the one or more users for return of the apparatus,
    and one or more of:
 10      o  receiving honey collected by the apparatus,
         0  remunerating the one or more users for collecting honey,
         *  remunerating the one or more users for freighting collected honey,
         *  remunerating the one or more users for freighting collected honey to a honey
            processing facility, and/or
 15      a  remunerating the one or more users for freighting collected honey to a
            predetermined location,
    28. A system for collecting honey comprising:
           one or more apparatus for cutting honeycomb from a honey frame claimed in any
20  one of claims 1 to 21 to one or more users to collect honey,
           a honey processing facility, and
           wherein the one or more apparatus is provided to one or more users in exchange
    for one or more of:
        0  receiving honey collected by the apparatus,
25      a  remunerating the one or more users for collecting honey,
        0  remunerating the one or more users for freighting collected honey,
        *  remunerating the one or more users for freighting collected honey to the honey
           processing facility, and/or
        *  remunerating the one or more users for freighting collected honey to a
30         predetermined location.
    29. A method of using the apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 22, wherein the
        method comprises the steps of:
           providing the apparatus to one or more users,
35         receiving honey collected by the one or more users, and
           remunerating one or more users in exchange for the honey collected.

                                                     - 21
     30. A method of using the apparatus as claimed in claim 29 wherein the method further
          comprises processing the honey collected at a honey processing facility.
     31. A method of using the apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 22, wherein the
  5       method comprises the steps of:
              cutting honeycomb from a the honey frame,
              transporting the honeycomb to a honey processing or storage facility.
     32.A system for managing honey collection comprising:
10            providing the apparatus of any one of claims 1 to 22 to one or more users,
              a database configured to store data pertaining to:
              "   one or more users undertaking the method according to any one of claims 23 to
                  25,
             *    data relating to honey collected by the one or more users,
15           wherein the database is updated at least when honey collected using the apparatus
    is received from one or more users.
    33. A system for managing honey collection as claimed in claim 32 wherein the data
         comprises one or more of:
20           *    a quantity of bee hives,
             *    identification of the user of the apparatus,
             *    a quantity of honey collected,
             *   the location where the apparatus has been used,
             *   the time spent with the apparatus, and/or
25           *   the time when the honey was collected.
    34.A method of collecting honey comprising:
         to each of a plurality of users operating beehives, providing one or more apparatus of
         any one of claims 1 to 22,
30  receiving, from two or more of the users, honey collected from their beehives using the
    apparatus, at one or more bulk honey facilities.
    35.A method according to claim 34 further comprising:
         storing, processing, packaging, distributing, and/or trading the honey received at one
35      or more of the bulk honey facilities and/or otherwise dealing with the honey received at
        the one or more bulk honey facilities.
    36.A honeycomb cutting apparatus substantially as hereinbefore described in the
        accompanying detailed description.

                                        - 22
37. A honeycomb cutting apparatus substantially as shown in the accompanying drawings.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
