  ABSTRACT
  Systems and methods are described for exploiting inter-cell interference to
  achieve multiplexing gain in a multiple antenna system (MAS) with multi-user
  (MU) transmissions ("MU-MAS"). For example, a MU-MAS of one embodiment
5 comprises a wireless cellular network with multiple distributed antennas
  operating cooperatively to eliminate inter-cell interference and increase network
  capacity exploiting inter-cell multiplexing gain.
  Figure 9

                     10/10
            C'/
         (w~)
L
  w I)K               (I
                             I I     ~~U)
                               ti
     om)                   /m
                           r
       F -   (w  F
                  LUO
           CI~co Cl
                                  o4
                                0
                      0)0)

618IP534PCT
                                  EXPLOITING INTER-CELL
               MULTIPLEXING GAIN IN WIRELESS CELLULAR SYSTEMS
CLAIM TO PRIORITY
[0001]       This application claims the benefit of co-pending U.S. Provisional Application
No. 61/729,990, entitled, "Systems And Methods For Exploiting Inter-Cell Multiplexing
Gain In Wireless Cellular Systems Via Distributed Input Distributed Output Technology",
filed November 26, 2012, which is assigned to the assignee of the present application. This
application is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.
RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0002]       This application may be related to the following co-pending U.S. Patent
Applications:
[0003]       U.S. Application Serial No. 13/233,006, entitled "System and Methods for
planned evolution and obsolescence of multiuser spectrum"
[0004]       U.S. Application Serial No. 13/232,996, entitled "Systems and Methods to
Exploit Areas of Coherence in Wireless Systems"
[0005]       U.S. Application Serial No. 13/464,648, entitled "System and Methods to
Compensate for Doppler Effects in Distributed-Input Distributed Output Systems"
[0006]       U.S. Patent No. 8,542,763, issued Sep. 24, 2013,entitled "Systems And Methods
To Coordinate Transmissions In Distributed Wireless Systems Via User Clustering"
[0007]       U.S. Application Serial No. 12/802,988, entitled "Interference Management,
Handoff, Power Control And Link Adaptation In Distributed-Input Distributed-Output
(DIDO) Communication Systems"
[0008]       U.S. Patent No. 8,170,081, issued May 1, 2012, entitled "System And Method
For Adjusting DIDO Interference Cancellation Based On Signal Strength Measurements"
[0009]       U.S. Application Serial No. 12/802,974, entitled "System And Method For
Managing Inter-Cluster Handoff Of Clients Which Traverse Multiple DIDO Clusters"
[0010]       U.S. Application Serial No. 12/802,989, entitled "System And Method For
Managing Handoff Of A Client Between Different Distributed-Input-Distributed-Output
(DIDO) Networks Based On Detected Velocity Of The Client"
[0011]       U.S. Application Serial No. 12/802,958, entitled "System And Method For
Power Control And Antenna Grouping In A Distributed-Input-Distributed-Output (DIDO)
Network"
                                             1

618IP534PCT
[0012]       U.S. Application Serial No. 12/802,975, entitled "System And Method For Link
adaptation In DIDO Multicarrier Systems"
[0013]       U.S. Patent No. 8,571,086, issued Oct. 29, 2013,entitled "System And Method
For DIDO Precoding Interpolation In Multicarrier Systems"
[0014]       U.S. Application Serial No. 12/630,627, entitled "System and Method For
Distributed Antenna Wireless Communications"
[0015]       U.S. Patent No. 7,599,420, issued Oct. 6, 2009, entitled "System and Method for
Distributed Input Distributed Output Wireless Communication";
[0016]       U.S. Patent No. 7,633,994, issued Dec. 15, 2009, entitled "System and Method
for Distributed Input Distributed Output Wireless Communication";
[0017]       U.S. Patent No. 7,636,381, issued Dec. 22, 2009, entitled "System and Method
for Distributed Input Distributed Output Wireless Communication";
[0018]       U.S. Patent No. 8,160,121, issued Apr. 17, 2012, entitled, "System and Method
For Distributed Input-Distributed Output Wireless Communications";
[0019]       U.S. Patent No. 7,711,030, issued May 4, 2010,entitled "System and Method For
Spatial-Multiplexed Tropospheric Scatter Communications";
[0020]       U.S. Patent No. 7,418,053, issued August 26, 2008, entitled "System and Method
for Distributed Input Distributed Output Wireless Communication";
[0021]       U.S. Patent No. 7,885,354, issued Feb. 8, 201 1,entitled "System and Method For
Enhancing Near Vertical Incidence Skywave ("NVIS") Communication Using Space-Time
Coding."
BACKGROUND
[0022]       In the last three decades, the wireless cellular market has experienced increasing
number of subscribers worldwide as well as demand for better services shifting from voice to
web-browsing and real-time HD video streaming. This increasing demand for services that
requires higher data rate, lower latency and improved reliability has driven a radical evolution
of wireless technologies through different standards. Beginning from the first generation
analog AMPS and TACS (for voice service) in the early 1980s, to 2G and 2.5G digital GSM,
IS-95 and GPRS (for voice and data services) in the 1990s, to 3G with UMTS and
CDMA2000 (for web-browsing) in the early 2000s, and finally LTE (for high-speed internet
connectivity) currently under deployment in different countries worldwide.
                                              2

618IP534PCT
 [0023]       Long-term evolution (LTE) is the standard developed by the 3 rd generation
partnership project (3GPP) for fourth generation (4G) wireless cellular systems. LTE can
achieve up to 4x improvement in downlink spectral efficiency over previous 3G and HSPA+
 standards by exploiting the spatial components of wireless channels via multiple-input
multiple-output (MLMO) technology. LTE-Advanced is the evolution of LTE, currently under
 standardization, that will enable up to 8x increase in spectral efficiency over 3G standard
 systems.
 [0024]       Despite this technology evolution, it is very likely that in the next three years
wireless carriers will not be able to satisfy the growing demand for data rate due to raising
market penetration of smartphones and tables, offering more data-hungry applications like
real-time HD video streaming, video conferencing and gaming. It has been estimated that
capacity of wireless networks will grow 5x in Europe from 2011 to 2015 due to improved
technologies such as LTE as well as more spectrum made available by the government [25].
For example, the FCC is planning to free 500MHz of spectrum by 2020 (of which 300MHz
will be available by 2015) to promote wireless Internet connectivity throughout the US as
part of the National Broadband Plan [24]. Unfortunately, the forecast for capacity usage by
2015 is 23x over 2011 in Europe [25] and similar spectrum deficit is expected to happen in
the US by 2014 [26-27]. As a result of this data crunch, revenues for wireless carriers may
drop below their CAPEX and OPEX with potentially devastating impact on the wireless
market [28]. Reference to any prior art in this specification does not constitute an admission
that such prior art forms part of the common general knowledge.
 [0025]       As capacity gains offered by LTE deployment and increased                spectrum
availability are insufficient, the only foreseeable solution to prevent this upcoming spectrum
crisis is to promote new wireless technologies [29]. LTE-Advanced (the evolution of LTE
 standard) promises additional gains over LTE through more sophisticated MIMO techniques
and by increasing the density of "small cells" [30]. However, there are limits to the number of
cells that can fit a certain area without incurring interference issues or increasing the
complexity of the backhaul to allow coordination across cells. It is an object of the present
invention to provide a multiple antenna system that overcomes at least some of the
disadvantages of the prior art or which at least provides the public with a useful choice. It is
acknowledged that the terms "comprise", "comprises" and "comprising" may, under varying
jurisdictions, be attributed with either an exclusive or an inclusive meaning. For the purpose
of this specification, and unless otherwise noted, these terms are intended to have an inclusive
meaning - i.e. they will be taken to mean an inclusion of the listed components that the use
                                               3

618IP534PCT
directly references, but optionally also the inclusion of other non-specified components or
elements. It is an object of the present invention to provide a multiple antenna system that
overcomes at least some of the disadvantages of the prior art or which at least provides the
public with a useful choice.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0026]       The patent or application file contains at least one drawing executed in color.
Copies of this patent or patent publication with color drawing(s) will be provided by the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office upon request and payment of the necessary fee.
[0027]       A better understanding of the present invention can be obtained from the
following detailed description of exemplary embodiments in conjunction with the drawings,
in which:
[0028]       FIG. 1 illustrates cells divided into a multiplexing region and a diversity region;
[0029]       FIG. 2 illustrates inter-cell interference in a plurality of different regions;
[0030]       FIG. 3 illustrates an embodiment in which the power transmitted from three base
transceiver stations (BTSs) all transmitting simultaneously at the same frequency is
increased, thereby allowing a higher level of interference throughout the cell;
[0031]       FIG. 4 illustrates one embodiment in which many additional access points are
added to deliberately increase the level of incoherent interference throughout the cell;
[0032]       FIG. 5 illustrates a plurality of LTE network elements employed in one
embodiment of the invention;
[0033]       FIG. 6a - 6c illustrate details associated with LTE frames;
[0034]       FIGS. 7a-b illustrate a "resource element" which is the smallest modulation
structure in LTE and consists of one OFDM subcarrier in frequency and one OFDM symbol
duration in time;
[0035]       FIG. 8 illustrates a SNR distribution for practical deployment of one
embodiment of the invention in downtown San Francisco, CA;
[0036]       FIG. 9 illustrates a system architecture employed in one embodiment of the
invention.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0037]       One solution to overcome many of the above prior art limitations is an
embodiment of Distributed-Input Distributed-Output (DIDO) technology. DIDO technology
is described in the following patents and patent applications, all of which are assigned the
                                                4

618IP534PCT
assignee of the present patent and are incorporated by reference.          These patents and
applications are sometimes referred to collectively herein as the "Related Patents and
Applications."
[0038]       U.S. Application Serial No. 13/233,006, entitled "System and Methods for
planned evolution and obsolescence of multiuser spectrum"
[0039]       U.S. Application Serial No. 13/232,996, entitled "Systems and Methods to
Exploit Areas of Coherence in Wireless Systems"
[0040]       U.S. Application Serial No. 13/475,598, entitled "Systems and Methods to
Enhance Spatial Diversity in Distributed Input Distributed Output Wireless Systems."
[0041]       U.S. Application Serial No. 13/464,648, entitled "System and Methods to
Compensate for Doppler Effects in Distributed-Input Distributed Output Systems."
[0042]       U.S. Patent No. 8,542,763, issued Sep. 24, 2013,entitled "Systems And Methods
To Coordinate Transmissions In Distributed Wireless Systems Via User Clustering"
[0043]       U.S. Application Serial No. 12/802,988, entitled "Interference Management,
Handoff, Power Control And Link Adaptation In Distributed-Input Distributed-Output
(DIDO) Communication Systems"
[0044]       U.S. Patent No. 8,170,081, issued May 1, 2012, entitled "System And Method
For Adjusting DIDO Interference Cancellation Based On Signal Strength Measurements"
[0045]       U.S. Application Serial No. 12/802,974, entitled "System And Method For
Managing Inter-Cluster Handoff Of Clients Which Traverse Multiple DIDO Clusters"
[0046]       U.S. Application Serial No. 12/802,989, entitled "System And Method For
Managing Handoff Of A Client Between Different Distributed-Input-Distributed-Output
(DIDO) Networks Based On Detected Velocity Of The Client"
[0047]       U.S. Application Serial No. 12/802,958, entitled "System And Method For
Power Control And Antenna Grouping In A Distributed-Input-Distributed-Output (DIDO)
Network"
[0048]       U.S. Application Serial No. 12/802,975, entitled "System And Method For Link
adaptation In DIDO Multicarrier Systems"
[0049]       U.S.Patent No. 8,571,086, issued Oct. 29, 2013, entitled "System And Method
For DIDO Precoding Interpolation In Multicarrier Systems"
[0050]       U.S. Application Serial No. 12/630,627, entitled "System and Method For
Distributed Antenna Wireless Communications"
[0051]       U.S. Patent No. 7,599,420, issued Oct. 6, 2009, entitled "System and Method for
Distributed Input Distributed Output Wireless Communication";
                                             5

618IP534PCT
[0052]        U.S. Patent No. 7,633,994, issued Dec. 15, 2009, entitled "System and Method
for Distributed Input Distributed Output Wireless Communication";
[0053]        U.S. Patent No. 7,636,381, issued Dec. 22, 2009, entitled "System and Method
for Distributed Input Distributed Output Wireless Communication";
[0054]        U.S. Patent No. 8,160,121, issued Apr. 17, 2012, entitled, "System and Method
For Distributed Input-Distributed Output Wireless Communications";
[0055]        U.S. Patent No. 7,711,030, issued May 4, 2010, entitled "System and Method For
Spatial-Multiplexed Tropospheric Scatter Communications";
[0056]        U.S. Patent No. 7,418,053, issued August 26, 2008, entitled "System and Method
for Distributed Input Distributed Output Wireless Communication";
[0057]        U.S. Patent No. 7,885,354, issued Feb. 8, 201 1,entitled "System and Method For
Enhancing Near Vertical Incidence Skywave ("NVIS") Communication Using Space-Time
Coding."
[0058]        To reduce the size and complexity of the present patent application, the
disclosure of some of the Related Patents and Applications is not explicitly set forth below.
Please see the Related Patents and Applications for a full description of the disclosure.
[0059]        One promising technology that will provide orders of magnitude increase in
spectral efficiency over wireless links without the limitations of conventional cellular systems
is distributed-input    distributed-output  (DIDO)    technology    (see Related    Patents and
Applications referenced in [0002-0020] above. The present invention describes DIDO
technology employed in the context of cellular systems (such as LTE or LTE-Advanced),
both within and without the constraints of cellular standards, to provide significant
performance benefits over conventional wireless systems. We begin with an overview on
MIMO and review different spatial processing techniques employed by LTE and LTE
Advanced. Then we show how the present invention provides significant capacity gains for
next generation wireless communications systems compared to prior art approaches.
[0060]        MIMO employs multiple antennas at the transmitter and receiver sides of the
wireless link and uses spatial processing to improve link reliability via diversity techniques
(i.e., diversity gain) or provide higher data rate via multiplexing schemes (i.e., multiplexing
gain) [1-2]. Diversity gain is a measure of enhanced robustness to signal fading, resulting in
higher signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) for fixed data rate. Multiplexing gain is obtained by
exploiting additional spatial degrees of freedom of the wireless channel to increase data rate
for fixed probability of error. Fundamental tradeoffs between diversity and multiplexing in
MIMO systems were described in [3-4].
                                              6

618IP534PCT
[0061]       In practical MIMO systems, link adaptation techniques can be used to switch
dynamically between diversity and multiplexing schemes based on propagation conditions
[20-23].   For example,      link adaptation   schemes   described   in [22-23]    showed that
beamforming or Orthogonal Space-Time Block Codes (OSTBC) are preferred schemes in
low SNR regime or channels characterized by low spatial selectivity. By contrast, spatial
multiplexing can provide significant gain in data rate for channels with high SNR and high
spatial selectivity. For example, Figure 1 shows that cells can be divided in two regions: i) a
multiplexing region 101, characterized by high SNR (due to proximity to the cell tower or
base station) where the spatial degrees of freedom of the channel can be exploited via spatial
multiplexing to increase data rate; ii) a diversity region or cell-edge 102, where spatial
multiplexing techniques are not as effective and diversity methods can be used to improve
SNR and coverage (yielding only marginal increase in data rate). Note that the macrocell
circle in Figure 1 labels the shaded center of the circle as the "multiplexing region" 101 and
the unshaded outer region of the circle as the "diversity region" 102. This same region
designation is used throughout Figures 1-4, where the shaded region is the "multiplexing
region" and the unshaded region is the "diversity region", even if they are not labeled.
[0062]       The LTE (Release 8) and LTE-Advanced (Release 10) standards define a set of
ten transmissionmodes (TM) including either diversity or multiplexing schemes [35,85-86]:
     e   Mode 1: Single antenna port, port 0
     " Mode 2: Transmit diversity
     e   Mode 3: Large-delay cyclic delay diversity (CDD), extension of open-loop spatial
         multiplexing for single-user MIMO (SU-MIMO)
     e   Mode 4: Closed-loop spatial multiplexing for SU-MIMO
     *   Mode 5: Multi-user MIMO (MU-MIMO)
     " Mode 6: Closed-loop spatial multiplexing, using a single transmission layer
     *   Mode 7: Single antenna port, UE-specific RS (port 5)
     e   Mode 8: Single or dual-layer transmission with UE-specific RS (ports 7 and/or 8)
     e   Mode 9: Single or up to eight layers closed-loop SU-MIMO (added in Release 10)
     e   Mode 10: Multi-layer closed-loop SU-MIMO, up to eight layers (added in Release
         10)
[0063]       Hereafter we describe diversity and multiplexing schemes commonly used in
cellular systems as well as specific methods employed in LTE as outlined above, and
compare them against techniques that are unique for DIDO communications. We first
                                              7

618IP534PCT
identify two types of transmission methods: i) intra-cell methods (exploiting micro-diversity
in cellular systems), using multiple antennas to improve link reliability or data rate within one
cell; ii) inter-cell methods (exploiting macro-diversity), allowing cooperation between cells to
provide additional diversity or multiplexing gains. Then we describe how the present
invention provides significant advantages (including spectral capacity gain) over prior art.
1. Intra-cell Diversity Methods
[0064]         Intra-cell diversity methods operate within one cell and are designed to increase
SNR in scenarios with poor link quality (e.g., users at the cell-edge subject to high pathloss
from the central tower or base station). Typical diversity schemes employed in MIMO
communications are beamforming [5-11] and orthogonal space-time block codes (OSTBC)
[12-15].
[0065]         Diversity techniques supported by the LTE standard are transmit diversity,
closed-loop rank-i precoding and dedicated beamforming [31-35]. Transmit diversity scheme
supports two or four transmit antennas over the downlink (DL) and only two antennas for the
uplink (UL). In the DL channel, it is implemented via space-frequency block codes (SFBC)
combined with frequency-switched transmit diversity (FSTD) to exploit space as well as
frequency selectivity [31]. Rank-i precoding creates a dedicated beam to one user based on
quantized weights selected from a codebook (pre-designed using limited feedback techniques
[36-42]) to reduce the feedback overhead from the user equipment (UE) to the base
transceiver station (BTS, or eNodeB using LTE terminology). Alternatively, dedicated
beamforming weights can be computed based on UE-specific reference signal.
2. Intra-cell Multiplexing Methods
[0066]         MIMO multiplexing schemes [1,19] provide gain in data rate in high SNR
regime and in scenarios with enough spatial degrees of freedom in the channel (e.g., rich
multipath environments with high spatial selectivity [16-18]) to support multiple parallel data
streams over wireless links.
[0067]         The LTE standard supports different multiplexing techniques for single-user
MIMO (SU-MIMO) and multi-user MIMO (MU-MIMO) [31]. SU-MIMO schemes have two
modes of operation: i) closed-loop, exploiting feedback information from the UE to select the
DL precoding weights; ii) open-loop, used when feedback from the UE is unavailable or the
UE is moving too fast to support closed-loop schemes. Closed-loop schemes use a set of pre
computed weights selected from a codebook. These weights can support two or four transmit
                                               8

618IP534PCT
antennas as well as one to four parallel data streams (identified by number of layers of the
precoding matrix), depending on the UE request and decision of the scheduler at the BTS.
LTE-Advanced will include new transmission modes up to MIMO 8x8 to provide up to 8x
increase in spectral efficiency via spatial processing [62].
[0068]       MU-MIMO schemes are defined for both UL and DL channels [31,50]. In the
UL, every UE sends a reference signal to the BTS (consisting of cyclically shifted version of
the Zadoff-Chu sequence [33]). Those reference signals are orthogonal, such that the BTS
can estimate the channel from all UEs and demodulate data streams from multiple UEs
simultaneously via spatial processing. In the DL, precoding weights for different UEs are
selected from codebooks based on the feedback from the UEs and the scheduler (similarly to
closed-loop SU-MIMO schemes) and only rank-I precoding is allowed for every UE (e.g.,
each UE receives only one data stream).
[0069]       Intra-cell   multiplexing   techniques   employing  spatial  processing   provide
satisfactory performance only in propagation scenarios characterized by high SNR (or SINR)
and high spatial selectivity (multipath-rich environments). For conventional macrocells, these
conditions may be harder to achieve as BTSs are typically far from the UEs and the
distribution of the SINR is typically centered at low values [43]. In these scenarios, MU
MIMO schemes or diversity techniques may be better choices than SU-MIMO with spatial
multiplexing.
[0070]       Other techniques and network solutions contemplated by LTE-Advanced to
achieve additional multiplexing gain (without requiring spatial processing through MIMO)
are: carrier aggregation (CA) and small cells. CA [30,44-47] combines different portions of
the RF spectrum to increase signal bandwidth up to 100MHz [85], thereby yielding higher
data rates. Intra-band CA combines different bands within the same portion of the spectrum.
As such it can use the same RF chain for multiple channels, and multiple data streams are
recombined in software. Inter-band CA requires different RF chains to operate at different
portions of the spectrum as well as signal processing to recombine multiple data streams from
different bands.
[0071]       The key idea of small cells [30,47] is to reduce the size of conventional macro
cells, thereby allowing higher cell density and larger throughput per area of coverage. Small
cells are typically deployed through inexpensive access points with low power transmission
(as depicted in Figure 1) as opposed to tall and expensive cell towers used for macro-cells.
Two types of small cells are defined in LTE-Advanced: i) metrocells, for outdoor installation
in urban areas, supporting up 32 to 64 simultaneous users; and ii) femtocells, for indoor use,
                                               9

618IP534PCT
can serve at most 4 active users. One advantage of small cells is that the density of UEs close
to the BTS is statistically higher, yielding better SNR that can be exploited via spatial
multiplexing to increase data rate. There are, however, still many concerns about practical
deployment of small cells, particularly related to the backhaul. In fact, it may be challenging
to reach BTSs of every small cell via high-speed wireline connections, especially considering
the high density of metrocells and femtocells in a given coverage area. While using Line-Of
Sight (LOS) backhaul to small cells can often be implemented inexpensively, compared to
wireline backhaul, there often are no practical LOS backhaul paths available for preferred
small cell BTS placements, and there is no general solution for Non-Line-Of-Sight (NLOS)
wireless backhaul to small cell BTSs. Finally, small cells require complex real-time
coordination across BTSs to avoid interference as in self-organized networks (SON) [30,51
52] and sophisticated cell-planning tools (even more complex than conventional cellular
systems, due to higher density of small cells) to plan their optimal location [48,49].
[0072]       It can be trivially shown there is no practical general solution that enables small
cells to co-exist with macrocells and achieve optimal, or necessarily even improved,
throughput. Among the myriad of such unsolvable situations is when small cell is located
such that its UEs unavoidably overlap with a macrocell transmission and the small cell and
the macrocell use the same frequencies to reach their respective UEs. Clearly in this situation,
the macrocell transmission will interfere with the small cell transmission. While there may be
some approach that mitigates such interference for particular circumstances of a particular
macrocell, a particular small cell, the particular macrocell and small cell UEs involved, the
throughput requirements of those UEs, and environmental circumstances, etc., any such
approach would be highly specific, not only to the static plan of the macrocell and small cell,
but to the dynamic circumstances of a particular time interval. Typically, the full throughput
of the channel to each UE cannot be achieved.
3. Inter-cell Diversity Methods
[0073]       Inter-cell transmission techniques enable cooperation across BTSs to improve
performance of wireless networks. These techniques are a special case of methods taught in
Related Patents and Applications [0002-0020]           to enable cooperation across wireless
transceivers in the general case of distributed antenna networks for multiple UEs all using the
same frequency simultaneously. Cooperation across BTSs to remove inter-cell interference
for the particular case of cellular systems for a single UE at a given time at a given frequency
was described in [53]. The system in [53] divides every macrocell into multiple subcells and
                                              10

618IP534PCT
enables soft-handoff across subcells by employing dedicated beamforming from coordinated
BTSs to improve link robustness at a single UE at a single frequency, as it moves along the
subcell boundaries.
[0074]        More recently, this class of cooperative wireless cellular networks has been
defined in the MIMO literature as "network MIMO" or "coordinated multi-point" (CoMP)
systems. Theoretical analysis and simulated results on the benefits obtained in network
MIMO by eliminating inter-cell interference are presented in [54-61]. The key advantage of
network MIMO and CoMP is to remove inter-cell interference in the overlapping regions
201-203 of the cells shown in Figure 2.
[0075]        CoMP networks are actively becoming part of LTE-Advanced standard as a
solution to mitigate inter-cell interference in next generation cellular networks [62-64]. Two
CoMP solutions have been proposed so far in the standard to remove inter-cell interference: i)
coordinated scheduling/beamforming (CS/CB), where the UE receives its data stream from
only one BTS via beamfoning and coordination across BTSs is enabled to remove
interference via beamforming or scheduling techniques; ii) joint processing (JP), where data
for given UE is jointly transmitted from multiple BTSs to improve received signal quality and
eliminate inter-cell interference. CoMP-JP yields larger gains than CoMP-CS/CB at the
expenses of higher overhead in the backhaul to enable coordination across BTSs.
4. Inter-cell Multiplexing Methods
[0076]        Prior art multi-user wireless systems add complexity and introduce limitations to
wireless networks which result in a situation where a given user's experience (e.g. available
throughput, latency, predictability, reliability) is impacted by the utilization of the spectrum
by other users in the area. Given the increasing demands for aggregate throughput within
wireless spectrum shared by multiple users, and the increasing growth of applications that can
rely upon multi-user wireless network reliability, predictability and low latency for a given
user, it is apparent that prior art multi-user wireless technology suffers from many limitations.
Indeed, with the limited availability of spectrum suitable for particular types of wireless
communications (e.g. at wavelengths that are efficient in penetrating building walls), prior art
wireless techniques will be insufficient to meet the increasing demands for bandwidth that is
reliable, predictable and low-latency.
[0077]        Prior art intra-cell diversity and multiplexing methods can only provide up to a
theoretical 4x increase in throughput over current cellular networks for LTE (through MIMO
4x4) or at most a theoretical 8x for LTE-Advanced (through MIMO 8x8), although higher
                                               11

618IP534PCT
orders of MIMO achieve diminishing improvements in increasing throughput in a given
multipath environment, particularly as UEs (such as smartphones) get smaller and more
constrained in terms of antenna placement.           Other marginal throughput gains in next
generation cellular systems may be obtained from additional spectrum allocation (e.g., FCC
national broadband plan), exploited via carrier aggregation techniques, and more dense
distribution of BTSs via small cell networks and SON [30,46]. All the above techniques,
however, still rely heavily on spectrum or time sharing techniques to enable multi-user
transmissions, since the spectral efficiency gains obtained by spatial processing is limited.
[0078]        While prior art inter-cell methods (e.g., network MIMO and CoMP systems [53
64]) can improve reliability of cellular networks by eliminating inter-cell interference, their
capacity gains are only marginal. In fact, those systems constrain power transmitted from
every BTS to be contained within the cell boundaries and are only effective to eliminate
inter-cell interference due to power leakage across cells. Figure 2 shows one example of
cellular networks with three BTSs 210-212, each one characterized by its own coverage area
or cell. The power transmitted from each BTS 210-212 is constrained to limit the amount of
interference across cells, depicted in Figure 2 by the areas where the cells overlap. As these
systems operate in the low SINR regime at the interference region, their gains in spectral
efficiency is only marginal, similarly to intra-cell schemes for SU-MIMO. To truly obtain
significant capacity gains in inter-cell cooperative networks, power constraints limited to cell
boundaries must be relaxed and spatial multiplexing techniques should be enabled throughout
the cells where the SINR is high (not just at the cell-edge with poor SINR performance as in
prior art approaches).
[0079]        It would thus be desirable to provide a system that achieves orders of magnitudes
increase in spectral efficiency by removing any constraint on the power transmitted from
distributed BTSs and exploiting inter-cell multiplexing gain via spatial processing. Figure 3
shows the case where the power transmitted from three BTSs 301-303 all transmitting
simultaneously at the same frequency is increased, thereby allowing a higher level of
interference throughout the cell. In prior art systems, such interference would result in
incoherent interference (disrupting UE signal reception) throughout the interfering areas of
the BTSs, but this interference is actually exploited in embodiments of the invention through
novel inter-cell multiplexing methods using spatial processing to create areas of coherent
interference    (enhancing   UE    signal reception) around     every UE, thereby      providing
simultaneous non-interfering data streams to every UE and increasing their SINR throughout
the cell.
                                              12

618IP534PCT
[0080]       In an exemplary embodiment of the invention, this inter-cell multiplexing gain is
achieved through distributed-input distributed-output (DIDO) systems [0014-0020] and [77
78]. Figure 4 shows one example where many additional access points 401 are added to
deliberately increase the level of incoherent interference throughout the cell that is exploited
in the present invention to generate areas of coherent interference around UEs and yield inter
cell multiplexing gain. Those additional BTSs can be low power transceivers, similar to
inexpensive Wi-Fi access points, thereby providing smaller areas of coverage overlapping
throughout the macro-cell as shown in Figure 4.
[0081]       We observe that prior art inter-cell methods avoid incoherent interference by
intentionally limiting the transmit power from every BTS 210-212 as in Figure 2 and
eliminate residual inter-cell interference (on the overlapping areas between cells) via spatial
processing, thereby providing improved SINR and inter-cell diversity gain. By contrast, the
present invention exploits incoherent interference to create coherent interference around the
UEs, by transmitting higher power from every BTS, thereby improving signal quality at the
UE that is necessary condition to obtain inter-cell multiplexing gain throughout the cell via
spatial processing. As such, the systems described in prior art cannot be used to achieve inter
cell multiplexing gain via spatial processing, since there is not sufficient signal quality
throughout the cell (due to the limited transmit power from the BTSs) to enable inter-cell
multiplexing methods as in the present invention. Moreover, the systems described in prior
art would be inoperable to achieve the multiplexing gain achieved in the present invention
depicted in Figures 3-4, given that prior art systems were designed to avoid inter-cell
interference within the diversity regions shown in the shaded area of Figure 1-4 rather than
exploit inter-cell interference in the multiplexing regions to obtain inter-cell multiplexing
gain as achieved in the present invention.
[0082]       The embodiments of the invention include a system and methods, employing a
multiple antenna system (MAS) with multi-user (MU) transmissions (a Multi-User Multiple
Antenna System, or "MU-MAS") comprising:
         a plurality of wireless user devices;
        a plurality of distributed antennas or wireless transceiver devices communicatively
coupled to the wireless user devices and with overlapping coverage at locations of the
wireless user devices; and
                                               13

618IP534PCT
        a spatial processing logic employing        spatial processing to exploit inter-cell
interference for creating a plurality of concurrent non-interfering downlink or uplink data
links with the user devices within the same frequency band.
[0083]       In one embodiment of the invention, the power transmitted from the multiple
antennas is constrained to minimize interference at cell boundaries (as in conventional
cellular systems) and spatial processing methods are employed only to eliminate inter-cell
interference. In another embodiment of the invention, the power transmitted from the
multiple antennas is not constrained to any particular power level (as long as their power
emission level falls within the regulatory or safety limits), thereby creating intentionally
higher levels of inter-cell interference throughout the cell that is exploited to achieve inter
cell multiplexing gain and increase the capacity of the wireless communications network.
[0084]       In one embodiment, the wireless communications network is a cellular network
as in Figures 1-2, such as a cellular network based on LTE standards. In another embodiment
of the invention, the wireless communications network is not constrained to any particular
cell layout and the cell boundaries can extend over larger areas as in Figures 3-4. For
example, the wireless communications network could be a wireless local area network
(WLAN), or a mesh, ad-hoc or sensor network, or a distributed antenna system, or a DIDO
system with access points placed serendipitously without any transmit power constraint. But,
such example network structures should not be considered              as limiting the general
applicability of the present invention to wireless communications networks. The present
invention applies to any wireless network where multiplexing gain is achieved by
transmitting signals from multiple antennas that interfere where received by multiple UEs so
as to create simultaneous non-interfering data streams to multiple UEs.
[0085]       As illustrated in Figure 9, one embodiment of the MU-MAS consists of a
centralized processor 901, a base station network (BSN) 902 and M base transceiver stations
(BTS) 903 communicating wirelessly to N client devices, also referred to as user equipment
UEs (illustrated as UEs 1-4). The centralized processor unit 901 receives N streams of
information over a network 900 (e.g., the Internet) with different network content CI-5 (e.g.,
videos, web-pages, video games, text, voice, etc., streamed from Web servers or other
network sources) intended for different client devices UE 1-4. Hereafter, we use the term
"stream of information" to refer to any stream of data sent over the network 900 containing
information that can be demodulated or decoded as a standalone stream, according to certain
modulation/coding scheme or protocol, to produce any data, including but not limited to
                                             14

618IP534PCT
audio, Web and video content. In one embodiment, the stream of information is a sequence of
bits carrying network content that can be demodulated or decoded as a standalone stream.
[0086]       The centralized processor 901 utilizes precoding transformation to combine
(according to algorithms, such as those described in the Related Patents and Applications) the
N streams of information from the network content into M streams of bits. By way of
example, but not limitation, the precoding transformation can be linear (e.g., zero-forcing
[65], block-diagonalization [66-67], matrix inversion, etc.) or non-linear (e.g., dirty-paper
coding [68-70] or Tomlinson-Harashima precoding [71-72]. lattice techniques or trellis
precoding [73-74], vector perturbation techniques [75-76]).      Hereafter, we use the term
"stream of bits" to refer to any sequence of bits that does not necessarily contain any useful
bit of information and as such cannot be demodulated or decoded as a standalone stream to
retrieve the network content. In one embodiment of the invention, the stream of bits is the
complex baseband signal produced by the centralized processor and quantized over given
number of bits to be sent to one of the M transceiver stations.
[0087]       In one embodiment, the MAS is a distributed-input distributed-output (DIDO)
system as described in Related Patents and Patent Applications.      In this embodiment, the
DIDO system consists of:
e            User Equipment (UE) 1-4: An RF transceiver for fixed or mobile clients
receiving data streams over the downlink (DL) channel from the DIDO backhaul and
transmitting data to the DIDO backhaul via the uplink (UL) channel
e            Base Transceiver Station (BTS) 903: The BTSs interface the DIDO backhaul
with the wireless channel. BTSs of one embodiment are access points consisting of
DAC/ADC and radio frequency (RF) chain to convert the baseband signal to RF. In some
cases, the BTS is a simple RF transceiver equipped with power amplifier/antenna and the RF
signal is carried to the BTS via RF-over-fiber technology as described in Related Patents and
Applications.
e            Controller (CTR) 905: A CTR 905 is one particular type of BTS designed for
certain specialized features such as transmitting training signals for time/frequency
synchronization of the BTSs and/or the UEs, receiving/transmitting control information
from/to the UEs, receiving the channel state information (CSI) or channel quality information
from the UEs. One or multiple CTR stations can be included in any DIDO system. When
multiple CTRs are available, the information to or from those stations can be combined to
increase diversity and improve link quality. In one embodiment, the CSI is received from
                                             15

618IP534PCT
multiple CTRs via maximum ratio combining              (MRC) techniques to improve CSI
demodulation. In another embodiment, the control information is sent from multiple CTRs
via maximum ratio transmission (MRT) to improve SNR at the receiver side. The scope of
the invention is not limited to MRC or MRT, and any other diversity technique (such as
antenna selection, etc.) can be employed to improve wireless links between CTRs and UEs.
e            Centralized Processor (CP) 901: The CP is a DIDO server interfacing the
Internet or other types of external networks with the DIDO backhaul. In one embodiment,
the CP computes the DIDO baseband processing and sends the waveforms to the distributed
BTSs for DL transmission
e            Base Station Network (BSN) 902: The BSN is the network connecting the CP to
the distributed BTSs carrying information for either the DL or the UL channel. The BSN is a
wireline or a wireless network or a combination of the two. For example, the BSN is a DSL,
cable, optical fiber network, or Line-of-Sight (LOS) or Non-Line-of-Sight (NLOS) wireless
link. Furthermore, the BSN is a proprietary network, or a local area network, or the Internet.
 Hereafter we describe how the above DIDO system framework can be incorporated into the
LTE standard for cellular systems (and also non-cellular system utilizing LTE protocols) to
achieve additional gains in spectral efficiency. We begin with a general overview of LTE
framework and modulation techniques employed in the DL and UL channels. Then we
provide a brief description of the physical layer frame structure and resource allocation in the
LTE standard. Finally, we define DIDO precoding methods for downlink (DL) and uplink
(UL) channels in multi-user scenarios using the LTE framework. For the DL schemes, we
propose two solutions: open-loop and closed-loop DIDO schemes.
[0088] LTE is designed with a flat network architecture (as opposed a hierarchical
architecture from previous cellular standards) to provide: reduced latency, reduced packet
losses via ARQ, reduced call setup time, improved coverage and throughput via macro
diversity. The network elements in LTE networks depicted in Figure 5 are [79]:
e         GW (gateway) 501-502: is the router connecting the LTE network to external
networks (i.e., the Internet). The GW is split into serving gateway (S-GW) 502 that
terminates the E-UTRAN interface and PDN gateway (P-GW) 501 being the interface with
external networks. The S-GW 502 and P-GW 501 are part of the so called evolved packet
core (EPC);
e         MME (mobility management entity) 503: manages mobility, security parameters and
UE identity. The MME 503 is also part of the LTE EPC;
                                              16

618IP534PCT
e        eNodeB     (enhanced Node-B) 504: is the base station handling radio resource
management, user mobility and scheduling; and
e        UE (user equipment) 505: are the mobile stations.
[0089] In one embodiment of the invention, the LTE network is a DIDO network wherein
the DIDO-UE is the UE in LTE networks, the DIDO-BTS is the LTE eNodeB, the DIDO
CTR is the LTE eNodeB or MME, the DIDO-CP is the LTE GW.
[0090] The LTE frame has duration of l0msec and consists of ten subframes as depicted in
Figures 6a-c [33,80]. Every subframe is divided in two slots of duration 0.5msec each. The
LTE standards defines two types of frames: i) type 1 for FDD operation as in Figure 6a,
where all subframes are assigned either for the downlink (DL) or uplink (UL) channels; ii)
type 2 for TDD operation as in Figure 6b, where part of the subframes are assigned to the
DL and part to the UL (depending on the selected configuration), whereas a few subframes
are reserved for "special use." There is at least one special subframe per frame and it consists
of three fields: i) downlink pilot time slot (DwPTS) reserved for DL transmission; ii) guard
period (GP); iii) uplink pilot time slot (UpPTS), for UL transmission.
[0091] LTE employs orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (OFDM) and orthogonal
frequency-division multiple access (OFMDA) modulation for the DL and Single-carrier
FDMA (SC-FDMA) for the UL. The "resource element" (RE) is the smallest modulation
structure in LTE and consists of one OFDM subcarrier in frequency and one OFDM symbol
duration in time, as shown in Figure 7. The "resource block" (RB) consists of 12 subcarriers
in frequency and one 0.5msec slot in time (consisting of 3 to 7 OFDM symbol periods,
depending on DL versus UL channel and type of cyclic prefix).
1.Downlink closed-loop DIDO in LTE
[0092]       DIDO closed-loop schemes can be used either in time-division duplex (TDD) or
frequency division duplex (FDD) systems. In FDD systems, DL and UL channels operate at
different frequencies and therefore the DL channel state information (CSI) must be estimated
at the UE side and reported back to the CP through the BTSs or the CTRs via the UL channel.
In TDD systems, DL and UL channels are set at the same frequency and the system may
employ either closed-loop techniques or open-loop schemes exploiting channel reciprocity
(as described in the following section). The main disadvantage of closed-loop schemes is they
require feedback, resulting in larger overhead for control information over the UL.
                                              17

618IP534PCT
[0093]       One embodiment of a mechanism for closed-loop schemes in DIDO systems is as
follows: i) the BTSs 903 send signaling information to the UEs over the DL; ii) the UEs
exploit that signaling information to estimate the DL channel state information (CSI) from all
the "active BTSs"; iii) the UEs quantize the DL CSI or use codebooks to select the precoding
weights to be used for the next transmission; iv) the UEs send the quantized CSI or the
codebook index to the BTSs 903 or CTRs 905 via the UL channel; v) the BTSs 903 or CTRs
905 report the CSI information or codebook index to the CP 901 that calculates the precoding
weights for data transmission over the DL. The "active BTSs" are defined as the set of BTSs
that are reached by given UE. For example, in related co-pending U.S. Application Serial No.
12/802,974, entitled "System And Method For Managing Inter-Cluster Handoff Of Clients
Which Traverse Multiple DIDO Clusters" and related co-pending U.S. Application Serial No.
12/917,257, entitled "Systems And Methods To Coordinate Transmissions In Distributed
Wireless Systems Via User Clustering" we defined the "user-cluster" as the set of BTSs that
are reached by given UE. The number of active BTSs are limited to a user-cluster so as to
reduce the amount of CSI to be estimated from the BTSs to given UE, thereby reducing the
feedback overhead over the UL and the complexity of the DIDO precoding calculation at the
CP 901.
1.1 Downlink DIDO Signaling Within the LTE Standard
[0094]       The LTE standard defines two types of reference signals (RS) that can be used for
DL signaling in closed-loop schemes [33,50,82-83]: i) cell-specific reference signal (CRS);
ii) UE specific RS such as channel state information (CSI) reference signal (CSI-RS) and
demodulation RS (DM-RS). The cell-specific RS is not precoded, whereas the UE-specific
RS is precoded [50]. CRS is used in LTE Release 8 that employs SU/MU-MIMO codebook
based techniques with up to four antennas in every cell. LTE-Advanced Release 10 supports
non-codebook based SU/MU-MIMO schemes with up to eight transmit antennas as well as
CoMP schemes with antennas distributed over different cells. As such, Release 10 allows for
more flexible signaling schemes via CSI-RS. In the present invention, we describe how either
types of signaling schemes can be used in DIDO systems to enable precoding.
1.1.1 DIDO signaling using CRS
[0095]       The CRS is employed in LTE (Release 8) systems to estimate the CSI from all
transmit antennas at the BTS to the UE [80,84]. The CRS is obtained as the product of a two
dimensional orthogonal sequence and a two-dimensional pseudo-random numerical (PRN)
                                             18

618IP534PCT
sequence. There are three orthogonal and 170 possible PRN sequences, for a total of 510
different CRS sequences. Every sequence uniquely identifies one cell. CRS is transmitted
within the first and third-last OFDM symbol of every slot, and every sixth subcarrier.
Orthogonal patterns in time and frequency are designed for every transmit antenna of the
BTS, for the UE to uniquely estimate the CSI from each of the four antennas. This high
density of CRS in time and frequency (i.e., sent every slot of 0.5msec, and every sixth
subcarrier), producing 5% overhead, was designed intentionally to support scenarios with fast
channel variations over time and frequency [83].
[0096]       In practical DIDO systems, it may be the case that every UE sees more than only
four BTSs within its user-cluster. For example, Figure 8 shows the SNR distribution for
practical deployment of DIDO systems in downtown San Francisco, CA. The propagation
model is based on 3GPP pathloss/shadowing model [81] and assumes a carrier frequency of
900MHz. The dots in the map indicate the location of the DIDO-BTSs, whereas the dark
circle represents the user-cluster (with the UE being located at the center of the circle). In
sparsely populated areas, the UE sees only a few BTSs within its user-cluster (e.g., as low as
three BTSs for the example in Figure 8), whereas in densely populated areas each user
cluster may comprise as many as 26 BTSs as in Figure 8.
[0097]       The high redundancy of the CRS can be exploited in DIDO systems to enable CSI
estimation from any number of transmit antennas greater than four. For example, if the
channel is fixed-wireless or characterized by low Doppler effects, there is no need to compute
the CSI from all four transmit antennas every 0.5msec (slot duration). Likewise, if the
channel is frequency-flat, estimating the CSI every sixth subcarrier is redundant. In that case,
the resource elements (RE) occupied by the redundant CRS can be re-allocated for other
transmit antennas or BTSs in the DIDO system. In one embodiment of the invention, the
system allocates resource elements of redundant CRS to extra antennas or BTSs in the DIDO
system. In another embodiment, the system estimates time and frequency selectivity of the
channel and dynamically allocates the CRS for different BTSs or only the BTSs within the
user-cluster to different resource elements.
 1.1.2 DIDO signaling using CSI-RS and DM-RS
[0098]       In the LTE-Advanced (Release 10) standard the CSI-RS is used by every UE to
estimate the CSI from the BTSs [33,83]. The standard defines orthogonal CSI-RS for
different transmitters at the BTS, so that the UE can differentiate the CSI from different
BTSs. Up to eight transmit antennas at the BTS are supported by the CSI-RS as in Tables
                                             19

618IP534PCT
6.10.5.2-1,2 in [33]. The CSI-RS is sent with a periodicity that ranges between 5 and 80
subframes (i.e., CSI-RS send every 5 to 80 msec) as in Tables 6.10.5.3-1 in [33]. The
periodicity of the CSI-RS in LTE-Advanced was designed intentionally larger than the CRS
in LTE to avoid excessive overhead of control information, particularly for legacy LTE
terminals unable to make use of these extra resources. Another reference signal used for CSI
estimation is to demodulation RS (DM-RS). The DM-RS is a demodulation reference signal
intended to a specific UE and transmitted only in the resource block assigned for transmission
to that UE.
[0099]       When more than eight antennas (maximum number of transmitters supported by
the LTE-Advanced standard) are within the user-cluster, alternative techniques must be
employed to enable DIDO precoding while maintaining system compliance to the LTE
Advanced standard. In one embodiment of the invention, every UE uses the CSI-RS or the
DM-RS or combination of both to estimate the CSI from all active BTSs in its own user
cluster. In the same embodiment, the DIDO system detects the number of BTSs within the
user-cluster and whether or not the user-cluster is compliant to the LTE-Advanced standard
(supporting at most eight antennas). If it is not compliant, the DIDO system employs
alternative techniques to enable DL signaling from the BTSs to the current UE. In one
embodiment, the transmit power from the BTSs is reduced until at most eight BTSs are
reachable by the UE within its user-cluster. This solution, however, may result in reduction of
data rate as coverage would be reduced.
[00100]      Another solution is to divide the BTSs in the user-cluster in subsets and send one
set of CSI-RS for every subset at a time. For example, if the CSI-RS periodicity is 5
subframes (i.e., 5msec) as in Table 6.10.5.3-1 in [33], every 5msec the CSI-RS is sent from a
new subset of BTSs. Note that this solution works as long as the CSI-RS periodicity is short
enough to cover all BTS subsets within the channel coherence time of the UE (which is a
function of the Doppler velocity of the UE). For example, if the selected CSI-RS periodicity
is 5msec and the channel coherence time is 100msec, it is possible to define up to 20 BTS
subsets of 8 BTS each, adding up to a total of 160 BTSs within the user-cluster. In another
embodiment of the invention, the DIDO system estimates the channel coherence time of the
UE and decides how many BTSs can be supported within the user-cluster for given CSI-RS
periodicity, to avoid degradation due to channel variations and Doppler effect.
[00101]      The solutions for CSI-RS proposed so far are all compliant with the LTE standard
and can be deployed within the framework of conventional LTE systems. For example, the
proposed method that allows more than eight antennas per user-cluster would not require
                                              20

618IP534PCT
modifications of the UE LTE hardware and software implementation, and only slight
modification of the protocols used at the BTSs and CP to enable selection of BTSs subset at
any given time. These modifications can be easily implemented in a cloud-based software
defined radio (SDR) platform, which is one promising deployment paradigm for DIDO
systems. Alternatively, if it is possible to relax the constraints of the LTE standard and
develop slightly modified hardware and software for LTE UEs to support similar, but non
LTE-compliant DIDO modes of operation, so as enable UEs to be able to operate in full
LTE-compliant mode, or in a modified mode that supports non-LTE-compliant DIDO
operation. For example, another solution is to increase the amount of CSI-RS to enable higher
number of BTSs in the system. In another embodiment of the invention, different CSI-RS
patterns and periodicities are allowed as a means to increase the number of supported BTSs
per user-cluster. Such slight modifications to the LTE standard may be small enough that
existing LTE UE chipsets can be used with simply software modification. Or, if hardware
modification would be needed to the chipsets, the changes would be small.
1.2 Uplink DIDO CSI feedback methods within the LTE standard
[00102] In the LTE and LTE-Advanced standards, the UE feeds back information to the BTS
to communicate its current channel conditions as well as the precoding weights for closed
loop transmission over the DL channel. Three different channel indicators are included in
those standards [35]:
e        Rank indicator (RI): indicates how many spatial streams are transmitted to given UE.
This number is always equal or less than the number of transmit antennas.
*        Precoding matrix indicator (PMI): is the index of the codebook used for precoding
over the DL channel.
e        Channel quality indicator (CQI): defines the modulation and forward error
correction (FEC) coding scheme to be used over the DL to maintain predefined error rate
performance for given channel conditions
[00103]      Only one RI is reported for the whole bandwidth, whereas the PMI and CQI
reporting can be wideband or per sub-band, depending on the frequency-selectivity of the
channel. These indicators are transmitted in the UL over two different types of physical
channels: i) the physical uplink control channel (PUCCH), used only for control information;
ii) the physical uplink shared channel (PUSCH), used for both data and control information,
allocated over one resource block (RB) and on a sub-frame basis. On the PUCCH, the
                                             21

618IP534PCT
procedure to report the RI, PMI and CQI is periodic and the indicators can be either
wideband (for frequency-flat channels) or UE-selected on a sub-band basis (for frequency
selective channels). On the PUSCH, the feedback procedure is aperiodic and can be UE
selected on a sub-band basis (for frequency-selective channels) or higher-layer configured
sub-band (e.g., for transmission mode 9 in LTE-Advance with eight transmitters).
[00104]      In one embodiment of the invention, the DIDO system employs RI, PMI and CQI
to report to BTSs and CP its current channel conditions as well as precoding information. In
one embodiment, the UE uses the PUCCH channel to report those indicators to the CP. In
another embodiment, in case a larger number of indicators is necessary for DIDO precoding,
the UE employs the PUSCH to report additional indicators to the CP. In case the channel is
frequency-flat, the UE can exploit extra UL resources to report the PMI for a larger number
of antennas in the DIDO systems. In one embodiment of the invention, the UE or BTSs or CP
estimate the channel frequency selectivity and, in case the channel is frequency-flat, the UE
exploits the extra UL resources to report the PMI for larger number of BTSs.
2. Downlink Open-loop DIDO in LTE
[00105]      DIDO open-loop schemes can only be used in time-division duplex (TDD)
systems exploiting channel reciprocity.     One embodiment of a mechanism for open-loop
schemes in DIDO systems is as follows: i) the UEs 1-4 send signaling information to the
BTSs 903 or CTRs 905 over the UL; ii) the BTSs 903 or CTRs 905 exploit that signaling
information to estimate the UL CSI from all UEs 1-4; iii) the BTSs 903 or CTRs 905 employ
RF calibration to convert the UL CSI into DL CSI; iv) the BTSs 903 or CTRs 905 send the
DL CSI or codebook index to the CP via the BSN 902; v) based on that DL CSI, the CP 901
calculates the precoding weights for data transmission over the DL. Similarly to closed-loop
DIDO schemes, user-clusters can be employed to reduce the amount of CSI to be estimated at
the BTSs from the UEs, thereby reducing the computational burden at the BTSs as well as the
amount of signaling required over the UL. In one embodiment of the invention, open-loop
precoding techniques are employed to send simultaneous non-interfering data streams from
the BTSs to the UEs over the DL channel.
[00106]      In LTE there are two types of reference signal for the uplink channel [31,33,87]:
i) sounding reference signal (SRS), used for scheduling and link adaptation; ii) demodulation
reference signal (DMRS), used for data reception. In one embodiment of the invention, the
SRS or DMRS is employed in open-loop DIDO systems to estimate the UL channels form all
UEs to all BTSs. In the time domain, the DMRS is sent at the fourth OFDM symbol (when a
                                             22

618IP534PCT
normal cyclic prefix is used) of every LTE slot (of duration 0.5msec). In the frequency
domain, the DMRS sent over the PUSCH is mapped for every UE to the same resource block
(RB) used by that UE for UL data transmission.
[00107]      The length of the DMRS is MRS=nNRB, where m is the number of RBs and
NRB=1 2 is the number of subcarriers per RB. To support multiple UEs, several DMRS are
generated from one base Zadoff-Chu [88] or computer-generated constant amplitude zero
autocorrelation (CG-CAZAC)         sequence, via cyclic shift of the base sequence. Base
sequences are divided into 30 groups and neighbor LTE cells select DMRS from different
groups to reduce inter-cell interference. For example., if the maximum number of resource
blocks within one OFDM symbol is 110 (i.e., assuming 20MHz overall signal bandwidth), it
is possible to generate up to 110x30 = 3300 different sequences.
[00108]      In one embodiment of the invention, the DIDO system assigns the UEs to
"virtual cells" to maximize the number of SRS or DMRS that can be used in the UL. In one
exemplary embodiment, the virtual cell is the area of coherence (described in related co
pending U.S. Application Serial No. 13/232,996, entitled "Systems and Methods to Exploit
Areas of Coherence in Wireless Systems") around the UE and the DIDO system generates up
to 3300 areas of coherence for different UEs. In another embodiment of the invention, each
of the 30 base sequences is assigned to a different DIDO cluster (clusters are defined in
related U.S. Patent No. 8,170,081, issued May 1, 2012, entitled "System And Method For
Adjusting DIDO Interference Cancellation Based On Signal Strength Measurements") to
reduce inter-cluster interference across adjacent DIDO clusters. In another embodiment, the
SRS or DMRS are assigned according to certain frequency hopping patterns to exploit
channel frequency diversity.
[00109]      In case there are not enough orthogonal SRSs or DMRSs for all UEs to be served
simultaneously in the DL via DIDO precoding, one alternative is to multiplex the SRS or
DMRS of different UEs in the time domain. For example, the UEs are divided into different
groups and the SRSs or DMRSs for those groups are sent over consecutive time slots (of
duration 0.5msec each). In this case, however, it is necessary to guarantee that the periodicity
of the SRS or DMRS assignment for different groups is lower than the channel coherence
time of the fastest moving UE. In fact, this is necessary condition to guarantee that the
channel does not vary for all UEs from the time the CSI is estimated via SRS or DMRS to the
time system transmits DL data streams to the UEs via DIDO precoding. In one embodiment
of the invention, the system divides the active UEs into groups and assigns the same set of
SRS or DMRS to each group over consecutive time slots. In the same embodiment, the
                                             23

618IP534PCT
system estimates the shortest channel coherence time for all active UEs and calculates the
maximum number of UE groups as well as the periodicity of the SRS or DMRS time
multiplexing based on that information.
3. Uplink DIDO Techniques in LTE
[00110]      Embodiments of the invention employ open-loop MU-MIMO schemes over the
UL channel to receive simultaneous UL data streams from all UEs to the BTSs. One
embodiment of the UL open-loop MU-MIMO scheme includes the following steps: i) UEs 1
4 send signaling information and data payload to all BTSs 903; ii) the BTSs 903 compute the
channel estimations from all UEs using the signaling information; iii) the BTSs 903 send the
channel estimates and data payloads to the CP 901; iv) the CP 901 uses the channel estimates
to remove inter-channel interference from all UEs' data payloads via spatial filtering and
demodulates the data streams form all UEs. In one embodiment, the open-loop MU-MIMO
system employs single-carrier frequency division multiple access (SC-FDMA) to increase the
number of UL channels from the UEs to the BTSs and multiplex them in the frequency
domain.
[00111]      In one embodiment, synchronization among UEs is achieved via signaling from
the DL and all BTSs 903 are assumed locked to the same time/frequency reference clock,
either via direct wiring to the same clock or sharing a common time/frequency reference, in
one embodiment through GPSDO. Variations in channel delay spread at different UEs may
generate jitter among the time references of different UEs that may affect the performance of
MU-MIO methods over the UL. In one embodiment, only the UEs within the same DIDO
cluster (e.g., UEs in close proximity with one another) are processed with MU-MIMO
methods to reduce the relative propagation delay spread across different UEs. In another
embodiment, the relative propagation delays between UEs are compensated at the UEs or at
the BTSs to guarantee simultaneous reception of data payloads from different UEs 1-4 at the
BTSs 903.
[00112]      The techniques for enabling signaling information for data demodulation over the
UL may be the same methods used for signaling in the downlink open-loop DIDO scheme
described at the previous section. The CP 901 may employ different spatial processing
techniques to remove inter-channel interference from the UEs data payload. In one
embodiment of the invention, the CP 901 employs non-linear spatial processing methods
such as maximum likelihood (ML), decision feedback equalization (DFE) or successive
interference cancellation (SIC) receivers. In another embodiment the CP 901 employs linear
                                             24

618IP534PCT
filters such as zeros-forcing (ZF) or minimum mean squared error (MMSE) receivers to
cancel co-channel interference and demodulate the uplink data streams individually.
4. Integration with Existing LTE Networks
[00113]      In the United States and other regions of the world, LTE networks are already in
operation or are in the process of being deployed and/or committed to be deployed. It would
be of significant benefit to LTE operators if they could gradually deploy DIDO capability
into their existing or already-committed deployments. In this way, they could deploy DIDO
in areas where it would provide the most immediate benefit, and gradually expand the DIDO
capability to cover more their network. In time, once they have sufficient DIDO coverage in
an area, they can choose to cease using cells entirely, and instead switch entirely to DIDO
and achieve much higher spectral density at much lower cost. Throughout this entire
transition from cellular to DIDO, the LTE operator's wireless customers will never see a loss
in service. Rather, they will simply see their data throughput and reliability improve, while
the operator will see its costs decline.
[00114]      There are several embodiments that would enable a gradual integration of DIDO
into existing LTE networks. In all cases, the BTSs for DIDO will be referred as DIDO-LTE
BTSs and will utilize one of the LTE-compatible DIDO embodiments described above, or
other LTE-compatible embodiments as they may be developed in the future. Or, the DIDO
LTE BTSs will utilize a slight variant of the LTE standard, such as those described above and
the UEs will either be updated (e.g. if a software update is sufficient to modify the UE to be
DIDO compatible), or a new generation of UEs that are DIDO-compatible will be deployed.
In either case, the new BTSs that support DIDO either within the constraints of the LTE
standard, or as a variant of the LTE standard will be referred to below as DIDO-LTE BTSs.
[00115]      The LTE standard supports various channel bandwidths (e.g., 1.4, 3, 5, 10, 15 and
20 MHz). In one embodiment, an operator with an existing LTE network can either allocate
new bandwidth for the LTE-DIDO BTSs, or would subdivide the existing LTE spectrum (e.g.
20MHz could be subdivided into two 10MHz blocks) to support conventional LTE BTSs in a
cellular configuration in one block of spectrum and DIDO LTE BTSs in another block of
spectrum. Effectively, this would establish two separate LTE networks, and UE devices
would be configured to use one or the other network, or select between the two. In the case of
subdivided spectrum, the spectrum may be divided evenly between the conventional LTE
network and the DIDO-LTE network, or unevenly, allocated more spectrum to whichever
network could best utilize it given the level of cellular LTE BTS and DIDO-LTE BTS
                                             25

618IP534PCT
deployment and/or UE usage patterns. This subdivision could change as needed over time,
and at some point, when there are sufficient DIDO-LTE BTSs deployed to provide the same
or better coverage as the cellular BTSs, all of the spectrum can be allocated to DIDO-LTE
BTSs, and the cellular BTSs can be decommissioned.
[00116]      In another embodiment, the conventional cellular LTE BTSs can be configured to
be coordinated with the DIDO-LTE BTSs such that they share the same spectrum, but take
turns using the spectrum. For example, if they were sharing the spectrum use equally, then
each BTS network would utilize one lOms frame time in alternation, e.g. one lOms frame for
the cellular LTE BTS, followed by one lOms frame for the DIDO-LTE BTS. The frame times
could be subdivided in unequal intervals as well. This interval splitting could change as
needed over time, and at some point, when there are sufficient DIDO-LTE BTSs deployed to
provide the same or better coverage as the cellular BTSs, all of the time can be allocated to
DIDO-LTE BTSs, and the cellular BTSs can be decommissioned.
[00117]      In another embodiment of the invention, DIDO is employed as LOS or NLOS
wireless backhaul to small cells in LTE and LTE-Advanced networks. As small-cells are
deployed in LTE networks, DIDO provides high-speed wireless backhaul to those small cells.
As the demand for higher data rate increases, more small-cells are added to the network until
the wireless network reaches a limit where no more small-cells can be added in a given area
without causing inter-cell interference. In the same embodiment of the invention, DIDO
BTSs are used to replace gradually small-cells, thereby exploiting inter-cell interference to
provide increased network capacity.
REFERENCES
[00118]       [1] A. Paulraj, R. Nabar, and D. Gore, Introduction to Space-Time Wireless
Communications, Cambridge University Press, 40 West 20th Street, New York, NY, USA,
2003
[00119]       [2] D. Gesbert, M. Shafi, D. Shiu, P.J. Smith and A. Naguib, "From theory to
practice: an overview of MIMO space-time coded wireless systems", IEEE Journal on
Selected Areas on Communications, vol.2, n.3, pp.281-302, Apr. 2003
[00120]       [3] L. Zheng and D. N. C. Tse, "Diversity and multiplexing: a fundamental
tradeoff in multiple-antenna channels." IEEE Trans. Info. Th., vol. 49, no. 5. pp. 1073-1096,
May 2003
[00121]       [4] D. N. C. Tse, P. Viswanath, and L. Zheng, "Diversity-multiplexing tradeoff in
multiple-access channels", IEEE Trans. Info. Th., vol. 50, no. 9, pp. 1859-1874, Sept. 2004
                                              26

618IP534PCT
[00122]       [5] E. Visotsky and U. Madhow, "Space-time transmit precoding with im- perfect
feedback," IEEE Trans. Info. Th., vol. 47, pp. 2632-2639, Sep. 2001.
[00123]       [6] S. A. Jafar, S. Vishwanath, and A. Goldsmith, "Channel capacity and
beamforming for multiple transmit and receive antennas with covariance feedback," Proc.
IEEE Int. Conf. on Comm., vol. 7, pp. 2266-2270, Jun. 2001.
[00124]       [7] S. A. Jafar and A. Goldsmith, "Transmitter optimization and optimality of
beamforming for multiple antenna systems," IEEE Trans. Wireless Comm., vol. 3, pp. 1165
1175, July 2004.
[00125]      [8] E. A. Jorswieck and H. Boche, "Channel capacity and capacity-range of
beamforming in MIMO wireless systems under correlated fading with covariance feedback,"
IEEE Trans. Wireless Comm., vol. 3, pp. 1543- 1553, Sep. 2004.
[00126]      [9] A. L. Moustakas and S. H. Simon, "Optimizing multiple-input single- output
(MISO) communication systems with general Gaussian channels: nontrivial covariance and
nonzero mean," IEEE Trans. Info. Th., vol. 49., pp. 2770-2780, Oct. 2003.
[00127]      [10] M. Kang and M. S. Alouini, "Water-filling capacity and beamforming
performance of MIMO systems with covariance feedback," IEEE Work. on Sign. Proc. Adv.
in Wire. Comm., pp. 556-560, June 2003.
[00128]      [11] S. H. Simon and A. L. Moustakas, "Optimizing MIMO antenna systems with
channel covariance feedback," IEEE Jour. Select. Areas in Comm., vol. 21, pp. 406-417,
Apr. 2003.
[00129]      [12] S. M. Alamouti, "A simple transmit diversity technique for wireless
communications," IEEE Jour. Select. Areas in Comm., vol. 16, no. 8, pp. 1451-1458, Oct.
 1998.
[00130]      [13] V. Tarokh, N. Seshadri, and A. R. Calderbank, "Space-time codes for high
data rate wireless communication: Performance criterion and code construction," IEEE Trans.
Info. Th., vol. 44, pp. 744-65, Mar. 1998.
[00131]      [14] V. Tarokh, H. Jafarkhani, and A. R. Calderbank, "Space-time block codes
from orthogonal designs," IEEE Trans. Info. Th., vol. 45, pp. 1456-467, July 1999.
[00132]      [15] E. N. Onggosanusi, A. G. Dabak, and T. A. Schmidl, "High rate space- time
block coded scheme: performance and improvement in correlated fading channels," Proc.
IEEE Wireless Comm. and Net. Conf., vol. 1, pp. 194-199, Mar. 2002.
[00133]      [16] G. D. Durgin, Space-Time Wireless Channels, Prentice Hall, Upper Saddle
River, NJ, USA, 2003
                                            27

6181P534PCT
[00134]      [17] D.-S. Shiu, G. J. Foschini, M. J. Gans, and J. M. Kahn, "Fading corre- lation
and its effect on the capacity of multielement antenna systems," IEEE Trans. Comm., vol. 48,
no. 3, pp. 502-513, Mar. 2000
[00135]      [18] A. Forenza and R. W. Heath Jr., "Impact of antenna geometry on MIMO
communication in indoor clustered channels," Proc. IEEE Antennas and Prop. Symp., vol. 2,
pp. 1700-1703, June 2004.
[00136]      [19] E. A. Jorswieck and H. Boche, "Channel capacity and capacity-range of
beamforming in MIMO wireless systems under correlated fading with covariance feedback,"
IEEE Trans. Wireless Comm., vol. 3, pp. 1543- 1553, Sep. 2004
[00137]      [20] R. W. Heath Jr. and A. Paulraj, "Switching between multiplexing and
diversity based on constellation distance," Proc. of Allerton Conf. on 208, Comm. Control
and Comp., Sep. 2000.
[00138]      [21] S. Catreux, V. Erceg, D. Gesbert, and R. W. Heath Jr., "Adaptive modulation
and MIMO coding for broadband wireless data networks," IEEE Comm. Mag.,
vol. 2, pp. 108-115, June 2002.
[00139]      [22] A. Forenza, A. Pandharipande, H. Kim, and R. W. Heath Jr., "Adaptive
MIMO transmission scheme: Exploiting the spatial selectivity of wireless channels," Proc.
IEEE Veh. Technol. Conf., vol. 5, pp. 3188-3192, May 2005
[00140]      [23] C. B. Chae, A. Forenza, R. W. Heath, Jr., M. R. McKay, and I. B. Collings,
"Adaptive     MIMO Transmission Techniques for Broadband Wireless Communication
Systems," IEEE CommunicationsMagazine, vol. 48, no. 5, pp. 112-118, May 2010
[00141]      [24] FCC, "Broadband        action agenda",    National Broadband    Plan, 2010
http://www.broadband.gov/plan/national-broadband-plan-action-agenda.pdf
[00142]      [25], N. Delfas, F. Meunier, S. Flannery, T. Tsusaka, E. Gelblum and S. Kovler,
"Mobile data wave: who dares to invest, wins", Morgan Stanley Research Global, June 13,
2012
[00143]      [26] D. Goldman, "Sorry, America: your wireless airwaves are full", CNN
Money
http://money.cnn.com/2012/02/21/technology/spectrum        crunch/index.htm
[00144]      [27] P. Rysavy, "No silver bullets for FCC, NTIA spectrum challange", Daily
report for executives, Bloomberg BNA, Aug. 2012
http://www.rysavy.com/Articles/2012 09 No Spectrum Silver Bullets.pdf
[00145]      [28] T. W. Hazlett, "Radio spectrum for a hungry wireless world", Sept. 22, 2011
                                              28

618IP534PCT
[00146]      [29] B. J. Love, D. J. Love and J. V. Krogmeier, "Like deck chairs on the Titanic:
why spectrum reallocation won't avert the coming data crunch but technology might keep the
wireless industry afloat", Feb. 2012
[00147]      [30] Qualcomm, "The 1000x data challenge, the latest on wireless, voice, services
and chipset evolution", 4G World, Oct.    3 1 st,  2012
[00148]      [31] J. Lee, J.-K. Han, J. Zhang, "MIMO technologies in 3GPP LTE and LTE
advanced", EURASIP Journal on Wireless Communications and Networking, Hindawi, May
2009
[00149]       [32] 3GPP, TS 36.201, "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
LTE Physical Layer-General Description (Release 8)"
[00150]      [33] 3GPP, TS 36.211, "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical Channels and Modulation (Release 8)"
[00151]      [34] 3GPP, TS 36.212, "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E
UTRA); Multiplexing and channel coding (Release 8)"
[00152]      [35] 3GPP, TS 36.213, "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
Physical layer procedures (Release 8)"
[00153]      [36] T. Yoo, N. Jindal, and A. Goldsmith, "Multi-antenna broadcast channels
with limited feedback and user selection," IEEE Journal on Sel. Areas in Communications,
vol. 25, pp. 1478-91, July 2007.
[00154]      [37] P. Ding, D. J. Love, and M. D. Zoltowski, "On the sum rate of channel
subspace feedback for multi-antenna broadcast channels," in Proc., IEEE Globecom, vol. 5,
pp. 2699-2703, November 2005.
[00155]      [38] N. Jindal, "MIMO broadcast channels with finite-rate feedback," IEEE
Trans. on Info. Theory, vol. 52, pp. 5045-60, November 2006.
[00156]      [39] D. J. Love, R. W. Heath, Jr., V. K. N. Lau, D. Gesbert, B. D. Rao, and M.
Andrews, "An Overview of Limited Feedback in Wireless Communication Systems," IEEE
Journal on Sel. Areas in Comm., Special Issue on Exploiting Limited Feedback in
Tomorrow's Wireless Communication Networks, vol. 26, no. 8, pp. 1341-1365, Oct. 2008.
[00157]      R. W. Heath, Jr., D. J. Love, V. K. N. Lau, D. Gesbert, B. D. Rao, and M.
Andrews,     "Exploiting    Limited   Feedback        in Tomorrow's Wireless  Communication
Networks," IEEE Journal on Sel. Areas in Comm., Special Issue on Exploiting Limited
Feedback in Tomorrow's Wireless Communication Networks, vol. 26, no. 8, pp. 1337-1340,
Oct. 2008.
                                                  29

 6181P534PCT
 [00158]     [41] D. J. Love, R. W. Heath, Jr.,          and T. Strohmer, "Grassmannian
 Beamforming for Multiple-Input Multiple-Output Wireless Systems," IEEE Trans. on Info.
 Theory special issue on MIMO Communication, vol. 49, pp. 2735-2747, Oct. 2003
 [00159]     [42] C. B. Chae, D. Mazzarese, N. Jindal and R. W. Heath, Jr., "Coordinated
 Beamforming with Limited Feedback in the MIMO Broadcast Channel" IEEE Journal on
 Sel. Areas in Comm., Special Issue on Exploiting Limited Feedback in Tomorrow's Wireless
 Communication Networks, vol. 26, no. 8, pp. 1505-1515, Oct. 2008
 [00160]     [43] A. Paulraj, "Is OFDMA, MIMO and OS the right stuff for mobile broad
 band?" http://www.ieeevtc.org/vtc2005fall/presentations/paulraj.pdf,  Sept. 2005
 [00161]     [44] J. Wannstrom, "Carrier aggregation explained", 3GPP
 http://www.3gpp.org/Carrier-Aggregation-explained
 [00162]     [45] 3GPP, TS 36.808, "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA);
 Carrier Aggregation (Release 10)", v10.0.0, June 2012
 [00163]     [46] Nokia Siemens Networks, "2020: beyond 4G, radio evolution for the gigabit
 experience", White Paper, 2011, www.nokiasiemensnetworks.com
 [00164]     [47] S. Marek, "AT&T's Rinne talks about carrier aggregation trials, small cells
 and    more",    http://www.fiercebroadbandwireless.com/story/atts-rinne-talks-about-carrier
 aggregation-trials-small-cells-and-more/2012-11-08
 [00165]     [48] M. Reed, "InterfereX", Tech23, 2011
 http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YPpELm6iip8
 [00166]     [49] NICTA, "InterfereX",
 http://www.nicta.com.au/research/archive/research   themes/networked systems/interferex
 [00167]     [50] J. Duplicity, et al., "MU-MIMO in LTE systems", EURASIP Journal on
 Wireless Communications and Netowrking, Mar. 2011
 [00168]     [51] S. Feng and E. Seidel, "Self-organizing networks (SON) in 3GPP LTE",
 Nomor research, May 2008
 [00169]     [52] NEC, "Self organizing networks", White paper, Feb. 2009
 [00170]     [53] U.S. Patent No. 5,809,422, issued September 15, 1998, entitled "Distributed
 microcellular communications system", G. R. Raleigh, M. A. Pollack
 [00171]      [54] G. J. Foschini, H.C. Huang, K. Karakayali, R. A. Valenzuela, and S.
 Venkatesan. The Value of Coherent Base Station Coordination. In Conference on In
formation Sciences and Systems (CISS 2005), Mar. 2005
                                             30

618IP534PCT
[00172]      [55] M. K. Karakayali, G. J. Foschini, R. A. Valenzuela, and R. D. Yates, "On the
maximum common rate achievable in a coordinated network," Proc. of the Int'l Conf: on
Communications (ICC'06), vol. 9, pp. 4333-4338, June 2006.
[00173]      [56] M. K. Karakayali, G. J. Foschini, and R. A. Valenzuela, "Network coor
dination for spectrally efficient communications in cellular systems," IEEE Wireless
CommunicationsMagazine, vol. 13, no. 4, pp. 56-61, Aug. 2006.
[00174]      [57] G. J. Foschini, M. K. Karakayali, and R. A. Valenzuela, "Coordinating
multiple antenna cellular networks to achieve enormous spectral efficiency," Pro- ceedings of
the IEEE, vol. 153, no. 4, pp. 548-555, Aug. 2006.
[00175]      [58]   S.   Venkatesan, A. Lozano,     and R.    Valenzuela.  "Network MIMO:
overcoming inter-cell interference in indoor wireless systems", Proc. of Asilomar conf.,
pp.83-87, Nov. 2007
[00176]      [59] S. Venkatesan, H. Huang, A. Lozano, and R. Valenzuela, "A WiMAX-based
implementation of network MIMO for indoor wireless systems", EURASIP Journal on
Advances in Signal Processing, Sep. 2009
[00177]      [60] Y. Liang, R. Valenzuela, G. Foschini, D. Chizhik, and A. Goldsmith,
"Interference suppression in wireless cellular networks through picocells", ACSSC, pp.l1041
1045, Nov. 2007
[00178]      [61] A. Papadogiannis, H. J. Bang, D. Gesbert, and E. Hardouin, "Efficient
selective feedback design for multicell cooperative networks", IEEE Trans. On Vehicular
Techn., pp.196-205, vol.60, n.1, Jan. 2011
[00179]       [62] 1. F. Akyildiz, D. M. Guterrez-Estevez, E. C. Reyes, "The evolution to 4G
cellular systems: LTE-Advanced", Physical communication, Elsevier, pp. 2 17-244, 2010
[00180]      [63] A. Barbieri, P. Gaal, S. Geirhofer, T. Ji, D. Malladi, Y. Wei, and F. Xue,
"Coordinated downlink multi-point communications in heterogeneous cellular networks",
(Qualcomm), Information Theory and App. Workshop, pp. 7-16, Feb. 2012
[00181]      [64] S. Parkvall, E. Dahlman, A. Furuskar, Y. Jading, M. Olsson, S. Wanstedt,
and K. Zangi, "LTE-Advanced - evolving LTE towards IMT-Advanced", (Ericsson) IEEE
VTC, pp.1-5, Sep. 2008
[00182]      [65] R. A. Monziano and T. W. Miller, Introduction to Adaptive Arrays, New
York: Wiley, 1980.
[00183]      [66] K. K. Wong, R. D. Murch, and K. B. Letaief, "A joint channel
diagonalization for multiuser MIMO antenna systems," IEEE Trans. Wireless Comm., vol. 2,
pp. 773-786, Jul 2003;
                                             31

6181P534PCT
[00184]      [67] R. Chen, R. W. Heath, Jr.,        and J. G. Andrews, "Transmit Selection
Diversity for Unitary Precoded Multiuser Spatial Multiplexing Systems with Linear
Receivers," IEEE Trans. on Signal Proc., vol. 55, no. 3, pp. 1159-1171, Mar. 2007.
[00185]      [68] M. Costa, "Writing on dirty paper," IEEE Transactions on Information
Theory, Vol. 29, No. 3, Page(s): 439 - 441, May 1983.
[00186]      [69] G. Caire and S. Shamai, "On the achievable throughput of a multiantenna
Gaussian broadcast channel," IEEE Trans. Info.Th., vol. 49, pp. 1691-1706, July 2003.
[00187]      [70] Nihar Jindal & Andrea Goldsmith, "Dirty Paper Coding vs. TDMA for
MIMO Broadcast Channels", IEEE Trans. on Info. Theory, vol.51, pp.1783-1794, May 2005
[00188]      [71] M. Tomlinson, "New automatic equalizer employing modulo arithmetic,"
Electronics Letters, Page(s): 138 - 139, March 1971.
[00189]      [72] H. Miyakawa and H. Harashima, "A method of code conversion for digital
communication channels with intersymbol interference," Trans. of the Inst. of Electronic
[00190]      [73] U. Erez, S. Shamai (Shitz), and R. Zamir, "Capacity and lattice-strategies
for cancelling known interference," Proceedings of InternationalSymposium on Information
Theory, Honolulu, Hawaii, Nov. 2000.
[00191]      [74] W. Yu and J. M. Cioffi, "Trellis Precoding for the Broadcast Channel", IEEE
Globecom, vol.2, pp. 1 344-1348, 2001
[00192]      [75] B. M. Hochwald, C. B. Peel, and A. L. Swindlehurst, "A Vector-Perturbation
Technique for Near-Capacity Multiantenna Multiuser Communication - Part I: Channel
Inversion and Regularization", IEEE Trans. On Communications, vol. 53, n.1, pp.195-202,
Jan. 2005
[00193]      [76] B. M. Hochwald, C. B. Peel, and A. L. Swindlehurst, "A Vector-Perturbation
Technique     for   Near-Capacity   Multiantenna      Multiuser  Communication      -  Part  II:
Perturbation", IEEE Trans. On Communications, vol. 53, n. 3, pp.537-544, Mar. 2005
[00194]      [77] S. Perlman and A. Forenza, "Distributed-input distributed-output (DIDO)
wireless technology: a new approach to multiuser wireless", Rearden Labs White Paper, July
2011,                                          http://www.reardenwireless.com/110727-DIDO
A%20New%20Approach%20to%20Multiuser%20Wireless.pdf
[00195]      [78] A. Vance, "Steve Perlman's wireless fix", Businessweek, July 2011
http://www.businessweek.com/magazine/the-edison-of-silicon-valley-07272011 .html
[00196]      [79] M. Lindstrom (Ericsson), "LTE-Advanced Radio Layer 2 and RRC aspects",
3GPP TSG-RAN WG2
[00197]      [80] Anritsu, "LTE resource guide", www.us.anritsu.com
                                              32

618IP534PCT
[00198]      [81] 3GPP, "Spatial Channel Model AHG (Combined ad-hoc from 3GPP &
3GPP2)", SCM Text V6.0, April 22, 2003
[00199]      [82] J. Lee,   "Introduction     of LTE-Advanced      DL/UL  MIMO",    Samsung
Electronics, Sep. 2009
[00200]      [83] E. Dahlman, S. Parkvall and J. Skold, "4G: LTE/LTE-Advanced for mobile
broadband", Elsevier, 2011
[00201]      [84] J. Syren, "Overview on the 3GPP long term evolution physical layer",
Freescale White Paper, July 2007
[00202]      [85] M. Baker, "LTE-Advanced physical layer", Alcatel-Lucent, Dec. 2009
[00203]      [86] J. Xu,    "LTE-Advanced        signal generation  and  measurements  using
SystemVue", Agilent Technologies
[00204]      [87] X. Hou and H. Kayama, "Demodulation reference signal design and channel
estimation for LTE-Advanced uplink", DOCOMO, Adv. in Vehic. Netw. Tech., Apr. 2011
[00205]      [88] D. C. Chu, "Polyphase codes with good periodic correlation properties",
IEEE Trans. Info. They,      vol. 18, n. 4, pp. 531-532, July 1972
                                              33

6181P534PCT
CLAIMS
We claim:
         1.     A multiple antenna system (MAS) with multi-user (MU) transmissions ("MU
MAS") comprising:
         a plurality of wireless user devices;
        a plurality of distributed antennas or wireless transceiver devices communicatively
coupled to the wireless user devices and with overlapping coverage at locations of the
wireless user devices; and
        a spatial processing logic employing         spatial processing to exploit inter-cell
interference for creating a plurality of concurrent non-interfering downlink or uplink data
links with the user devices within the same frequency band.
        2.      The system as in claim 1 wherein power transmitted from the multiple
antennas is constrained to minimize interference at the cell boundaries and spatial processing
is employed to eliminate inter-cell interference, or it is not constrained to any particular
power level, such that inter-cell interference is intentionally created throughout the cell and
exploited to increase capacity of the wireless communications network.
        3.      The system as in claim 1 wherein the wireless communications network is a
cellular network such as the LTE network, and the MU-MAS comprises of one or a plurality
of base station transceiver (BTS) units, one or a plurality of centralized processor (CP) units
and one or a plurality of user equipment (UE) units.
        4.      The system as in claim 1 wherein the wireless communications network is a
distributed antenna system with access points placed serendipitously without transmit power
constraints.
        5.      The system as in claim 3 comprising of closed-loop precoding methods
employed to send simultaneous non-interfering data streams from the BTSs to the UEs over
the downlink (DL) channel, wherein every UE uses the cell-specific reference signal (CRS),
or the channel state information (CSI) reference signal (CSI-RS), or the demodulation
reference signal (DM-RS) to estimate the CSI from all BTSs or from only the BTSs within its
own user-cluster (the user-cluster being defined as the set of BTSs that are reachable from the
UE location) and every UE reports the RI, PMI and CQI to the CP via the PUCCH.
                                               34

6181P534PCT
        6.      The system as in claim 3 wherein open-loop precoding methods are employed
to send or receive simultaneous non-interfering data streams between the BTSs and the UEs
in the same frequency band.
        7.      The system as in claim 6 wherein the open-loop methods comprise of non
linear spatial filters, such as maximum likelihood (ML), decision feedback equalization
(DFE) or successive interference cancellation (SIC) receivers, or linear spatial filters, such as
zero-forcing (ZF) or minimum mean squared error (MMSE) receivers.
         8.     The system as in claim 6 wherein SC-FMDA is used over the uplink channel.
        9.      The system as in claim 6 wherein the SRS or DMRS is used to estimate the
channel state information (CSI) from all UEs to the BTSs.
         10.    The system as in claim 9 wherein different SRSs or DMRSs are assigned to
different antennas of every UE, or to different subsets of BTSs to reduce interference
between non-cooperative BTSs, or to different groups of UEs, or based on frequency hopping
patterns to exploit channel frequency diversity.
         11.    The system as in claim 10 wherein the shortest channel coherence time is
estimated for all active UEs, and the number of UE groups as well as the periodicity of the
SRS or DMRS time multiplexing scheme is calculated based on that information.
         12.    The system as in claim 6 wherein RF calibration is used to convert uplink
(UL) CSI into downlink (DL) CSI thereby exploiting UL/DL channel reciprocity.
         13.    The system as in claim 6 wherein the BTSs are synchronized to the same
reference clock via direct wiring to the same physical clock or sharing a common time and
frequency reference through global positioning system disciplined oscillators (GPSDOs).
         14.    The system as in claim 6 wherein time/frequency synchronization among UEs
and BTSs is achieved by exploiting DL signaling information.
         15.    The system as in claim 14 wherein the relative propagation delays between
UEs are avoided by processing the UL frames only for those UEs linked to the same set of
BTSs, thereby guaranteeing time synchronization between UEs, or the delays are pre
compensated at the UE side before UL transmission to guarantee time synchronization of the
UEs at the BTS receivers.
         16.    The system as in claim 3 wherein MU-MAS              technology is gradually
integrated into existing LTE networks, the BTSs or UEs are LTE-compatible or utilize a
variant of the LTE standard, or are updated to be compatible with MU-MAS technology.
                                            35

6181P534PCT
        17.     The system as in claim 3 further comprising LTE spectrum is subdivided to
support conventional LTE BTSs in a cellular configuration in one block of spectrum and
MU-MAS LTE BTSs in another block of spectrum.
        18.     The system as in claim 3 wherein the conventional cellular LTE BTSs are
configured to be coordinated with the MU-MAS LTE BTSs such that they share the same
spectrum, but operate according to time division multiple access (TDMA) schemes.
        19.     The system as in claim 3 wherein MU-MAS is employed as LOS or NLOS
wireless backhaul to LTE small-cells.
        20.     A method implemented within a multiple antenna system (MAS) with multi
user (MU) transmissions ("MU-MAS") comprising:
        a plurality of wireless user devices;
        a plurality of distributed antennas or wireless transceiver devices communicatively
coupled to the wireless user devices and with overlapping coverage at locations of the
wireless user devices; and
        the method employing spatial processing to exploit inter-cell interference for creating
a plurality of concurrent non-interfering downlink or uplink data links with the user devices
within the same frequency band.
                                              36

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
