                         The invention relates to of analyz
         ing vector supernatants useful for transducing T
         cells destined for administration to a human sub
         ject. The invention also related to methods of ana
         lyzing transduced T cells destined for administra
         tion to a human subject. The invention provides a
         method of analyzing a genetically modified T cell
         to detect a contaminant, wherein the genetically
         modified T cell comprises a nucleic acid encoding
         a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR), wherein the
         CAR comprises an antigen binding domain, a
         transmenmbrane' domain, a costimulatory signaling
         region, and a signaling domain. In one embodi
         ment, the contaminant is at least one selected from
         the group consisting of endotoxin, mycoplasma,
         replication competent lentivirus (RCL), p24, VSV
         G nucleic acid, HN gag, residual anti-CD3/an
         ti-CD28 coated beads, mouse antibodies, pooled
         human semm, bovine serum albumin, bovine ser
         um, culture media components, vector packaging
         cell or plasmid components, a bacterium and a
         fungus.
                                       R region
                                               Truncated gag/pol
          Amp   R  /RRE           5ATR                cPPT/CTS
                                                         Truncated
 Bacterial                   pELPS 19-BB-.                  env
replication                     11556 bp/
  origin
                                                       EF-la
                         3LTR (truncated)
 Bovne CH Poly A - c
R region (truncated)                               9 BB{
                              WPRE
               U3 (truncated)
          FMC63              Human CD8a
            scFv             Hinge and TM 4-1BB           CD3
                Figure LA

                                  TITLE OF THE INVENTION
     METHODS OF ASSESSING THE SUITABILITY OF TRANSDUCED T CELLS
                                   FOR ADMINISTRATION
 5      STATEMENT REGARDING FEDERALLY SPONSORED RESEARCH OR
                                        DEVELOPMENT
                    This invention was made with government support under grant
   numbers K24 CAl 1787901, 1PN2-EY016586, 1R01CA105216, 1R01CA120409,
   RO1A1057838, and ROJ 113482, awarded by the National Institutes of Health (NIH).
10 The government has certain rights in the invention.
                    CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
                    This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No.
   61/671,495, filed July 13, 2012, international application No. PCT/US2013/050287,
15 and is a divisional of AU 2013289979, the contents of each of which are hereby
   incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
                            BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
                    The large majority of patients having B-cell malignancies, including
20 chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), will die from their disease. One approach to
   treating these patients is to genetically modify T cells to target antigens expressed on
   tumor cells through the expression of chimeric antigen receptors (CARs). CARs are
   antigen receptors that are designed to recognize cell surface antigens in a human
   leukocyte antigen-independent manner. Attempts in using genetically modified cells
25 expressing CARs to treat these types of patients have met with very limited success.
   See for example, Brentjens et al., 2010, Molecular Therapy, 18:4, 666-668; Morgan et
   al., 2010, Molecular Therapy, published online February 23, 2010, pages 1-9; and,
   Till et al., 2008, Blood, 112:2261-2271.
                    While CARs can trigger T-cell activation in a manner similar to an
30 endogenous T-cell receptor, a major impediment to the clinical application of this
   technology to date has been limited in vivo expansion of CAR+ T cells, rapid
   disappearance of the cells after infusion, and disappointing clinical activity (Jena, et
   al., Blood, 2010, 116:1035-1044; Uckun, et al. Blood, 1988, 71:13-29). Methods of
   generating genetically modified T cells for administration to humans have the
                                                       1

WO 2014/011996                                                              PCT/US2013/050287
     potential to produce unwanted contaminants that may negatively impact the
     persistence and function of the genetically modified T cells after administration.
                      Thus, there is a need in the art for analyzing transduced T cells for
     their suitability for administration to a human subject, through the detection of
  5  contaminants that may negatively impact the persistence and function of genetically
     modified cells. The present invention addresses this need.
                                SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
                      The invention provides a method of analyzing a genetically modified T
 10  cell to detect a contaminant, wherein the genetically modified T cell comprises a
     nucleic acid encoding a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR), wherein the CAR
     comprises an antigen binding domain, a transmembrane domain, a costimulatory
     signaling region, and a signaling domain.
                      In one embodiment, the genetically modified T cell was genetically
 15  modified by transduction with a lentiviral vector.
                      In one embodiment, the contaminant is at least one selected from the
     group consisting of endotoxin, mycoplasma, replication competent lentivirus (RCL),
     p24, VSV-G nucleic acid, HIV gag, residual anti-CD3/anti-CD28 coated beads,
     mouse antibodies, pooled human serum, bovine serum albumin, bovine serum, culture
20   media components, vector packaging cell or plasmid components, a bacterium and a
     fungus.
                      In one embodiment, the bacterium is at least one selected from the
     group consisting of Alcaligenes faecalis, Candida albicans, Escherichia coli,
     Haemophilus influenza, Neisseria meningitides, Pseudomonas aeruginosa,
25   Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pneumonia, and Streptococcus pyogenes group
     A.
                      In one embodiment, the signaling domain is a CD3 zeta signaling
     domain.
                      In one embodiment, the antigen binding domain is an antibody or an
30   antigen-binding fragment thereof.
                      In one embodiment, the antigen-binding fragment is a Fab or a scFv.
                      In one embodiment, the antigen binding domain binds to a tumor
     antigen.
                                                          2

                   In one embodiment, the tumor antigen is associated with a hematologic
   malignancy.
                   In one embodiment, the tumor antigen is associated with a solid tumor.
                   In one embodiment, the tumor antigen is selected from the group
 5 consisting of CD19, CD20, CD22, RORI, mesothelin, CD33/IL3Ra, c-Met, PSMA,
   Glycolipid F77, EGFRvIII, GD-2, NY-ESO-1 TCR, MAGE A3 TCR, and any
   combination thereof.
                   In one embodiment, the costimulatory signaling region comprises the
   intracellular domain of a costimulatory molecule selected from the group consisting
10 of CD27, CD28, 4-1BB, OX40, CD30, CD40, PD-1, ICOS, lymphocyte function
   associated antigen-I (LFA-1), CD2, CD7, LIGHT, NKG2C, B7-H3, a ligand that
   specifically binds with CD83, and any combination thereof.
                   In one embodiment, the genetically modified T cell is not administered
   to a human subject because of the identification and quantification of the contaminant.
15                 In one embodiment, the genetically modified T cell is not administered
   to a human subject because the quantity of the contaminant is excessive as compared
   with a corresponding control level.
                        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
20                 The following detailed description of preferred embodiments of the
   invention will be better understood when read in conjunction with the appended
   drawings. For the purpose of illustrating the invention, there are shown in the
   drawings embodiments which are presently preferred. It should be understood,
   however, that the invention is not limited to the precise arrangements and
25 instrumentalities of the embodiments shown in the drawings.
                   Figure 1, comprising Figures IA through iB, is a series of images of
   the schematic representations of the gene-transfer vector and transgene, gene
   modified T cell manufacturing and clinical protocol design. Figure IA depicts the
   lentiviral vectors and transgene that show the major functional elements. A vesicular
30 stomatitis virus protein G pseudotyped clinical grade lentiviral vector (designated
   pELPs 19BBz) directing expression of anti-CD19 scFv derived from FMC63 murine
   monoclonal antibody, human CD8a hinge and transmembrane domain, and human 4
    iBB and CD3zeta signaling domains was produced. Constitutive expression of the
   transgene was directed by inclusion of an EF-Ica (elongation factor-lu promoter);

   LTR, long terminal repeat; RRE, rev response element. (cPPT) and the central
   termination sequence (CTS). Figure is not to scale. Figure 1B depicts T cell
   manufacturing. Autologous cells were obtained via apheresis, and for non-CLL study
   subjects T cells were enriched by mononuclear cell elutriation. For CLL subjects
 5 residual leukemia cells depleted by addition of anti-CD3/CD28 coated paramagnetic
   beads for positive selection and activation of T cells. For non-CLL subjects, elutriated
   cells were washed followed by addition of anti-CD3/CD28 coated paramagnetic beads
   for activation of T cells. Lentiviral vector was added at the time of cell activation and
   was washed out on day 3 post culture initiation. Two days later, cells were expanded
10 on a rocking platform device (WAVE Bioreactor System) for an additional 3-7 days.
   On the final day of culture the beads were removed by passage over a magnetic field
   and the CART19 T cells harvested, washed, and cryopreserved in infusible medium.
   Patients were given lymphodepleting chemotherapy as described, followed by
   CART 19 infusion #1 by i.v. gravity flow drip over a period of 15-20 minutes. The
15 infusion was given using a split dose approach over 3 days (10%, 30%, 60%)
   beginning 1 to 5 days after completion of chemotherapy. Endpoint assays were
   conducted on study week 4. At the conclusion of active monitoring, subjects were
   transferred to a destination protocol for long term follow up as per FDA guidance.
                   Figure 2 depicts the manufacturing process of CART-19 cells.
20                 Figure 3 is a table listing the types of analyses performed on the
   transduced T cells.
                   Figure 4 depicts the results of analyses quantifying VSV-G nucleic
   acid during the ex vivo culture period.
                   Figure 5 depicts the results of analyses quantifying HIVgag nucleic
25 acid during the ex vivo culture period.
                                  DETAILED DESCRIPTION
                   The invention relates to methods of producing vectors comprising
   nucleic acids encoding a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) that are suitable for the
30 transduction of T cells destined for the administration to a human subject. The
   invention also relates to methods of transducing T cells destined for the administration
   to a human subject with vectors comprising nucleic acids encoding a chimeric antigen
   receptor (CAR). In a preferred embodiment, the vector is a lentiviral vector. The
                                                       4

WO 2014/011996                                                             PCT/US2013/050287
     present invention relates to adoptive cell transfer of T cells transduced with a
     lentiviral vector to express a CAR. CARs are molecules that combine antibody-based
     specificity for a desired target antigen (e.g., tumor antigen) with a T cell receptor
     activating intracellular domain to generate a chimeric protein that exhibits a specific
  5  anti-tumor cellular immune activity.
                     In some embodiments, the methods of the invention relate to methods
     of analyzing vector supernatants useful for transducing T cells destined for
     administration to a human subject. In other embodiments, the methods of the
     invention relate to methods of analyzing transduced T cells destined for
 10  administration to a human subject. In various embodiments, the methods of analysis
     of the invention include methods of analyzing T cell viability, T cell character (e.g.,
     CD3, CD4, CD8, CD25, CD27, CD45RA, CD57, CD62L, CD95, CD127, CD134,
     CD244. CCR7, CD40L, CTLA4, PD-1, HLA-DR, TIM3, Ki-67, perforin, and/or
     granzyme expression), transduction efficiency, as well as methods of detecting and
 15  quantifying contaminants associated with the manufacturing process, such as
     endotoxin, mycoplasma, replication competent lentivirus (RCL), p24, VSV-G nucleic
     acid, HIVgag, residual anti-CD3/anti-CD28 coated beads, mouse antibodies, pooled
     human serum, bovine serum albumin, bovine serum, culture media components,
     vector packaging cell or plasmid components, bacteria (e.g., Alcaligenes faecalis,
20   Candida albicans, Escherichia coli, Haemophilus influenza, Neisseria meningitides,
     Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pneumonia, and
     Streptococcus pyogenes group A), and fungus. The invention is not limited to any
     particular contaminant. Rather, the invention includes methods of analyses for any
     contaminant that affects the safety or efficacy of the transduced T cell.
25                   The present invention relates generally to the use of vectors to
     genetically modify T cells to stably express a desired CAR. T cells expressing a CAR
     are referred to herein as CAR T cells or CAR modified T cells. Preferably, the cell
     can be genetically modified to stably express an antibody binding domain on its
     surface, conferring novel antigen specificity that is MHC independent. In some
30   instances, the T cell is genetically modified to stably express a CAR that combines an
     antigen recognition domain of a specific antibody with an intracellular domain of the
     CD3-zeta chain or FcyRI protein into a single chimeric protein.
                     In one embodiment, the CAR of the invention comprises an
     extracellular domain having an antigen recognition domain, a transmembrane domain,
                                                        5

WO 2014/011996                                                             PCT/US2013/050287
     and a cytoplasmic domain. In one embodiment, the transmembrane domain that
     naturally is associated with one of the domains in the CAR is used. In another
     embodiment, the transmembrane domain can be selected or modified by amino acid
     substitution to avoid binding of such domains to the transmembrane domains of the
  5  same or different surface membrane proteins to minimize interactions with other
     members of the receptor complex. Preferably, the transmembrane domain is the CD8a
     hinge domain.
                     With respect to the cytoplasmic domain, the CAR of the invention can
     be designed to comprise the CD28 and/or 4-1BB signaling domain by itself or be
 10  combined with any other desired cytoplasmic domain(s) useful in the context of the
     CAR of the invention. In one embodiment, the cytoplasmic domain of the CAR can
     be designed to further comprise the signaling domain of CD3-zeta. For example, the
     cytoplasmic domain of the CAR can include but is not limited to CD3-zeta, 4-1BB
     and CD28 signaling modules and combinations thereof. Accordingly, the invention
 15  provides CAR T cells and methods of their use for adoptive therapy.
                     The invention included methods of producing a vector comprising
     nucleic acids encoding an anti-CD 19 CAR including both CD3 -zeta and the 4-1BB
     costimulatory domain. In one embodiment, the vector comprises a desired CAR, for
     example a CAR comprising anti-CD 19, CD8a hinge and transmembrane domain, and
20   human 4-1BB and CD3zeta signaling domains. The invention is not limited to CARs
     comprising anti-CD 19, but also includes any antigen binding moiety fused with one
     or more intracellular domains selected from the group of a CD 137 (4-1BB) signaling
     domain, a CD28 signaling domain, a CD3zeta signal domain, and any combination
     thereof. In preferred embodiments, the vector is a lentiviral vector.
25
     Definitions
                     Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein
     have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to
     which the invention pertains. Although any methods and materials similar or
30   equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice for testing of the
     present invention, the preferred materials and methods are described herein. In
     describing and claiming the present invention, the following terminology will be used.
                     It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the
     purpose of describing particular embodiments only, and is not intended to be limiting.
                                                         6

WO 2014/011996                                                               PCT/US2013/050287
                      The articles "a" and "an" are used herein to refer to one or to more
     than one (i.e., to at least one) of the grammatical object of the article. By way of
     example, "an element" means one element or more than one element.
                      "About" as used herein when referring to a measurable value such as
  5  an amount, a temporal duration, and the like, is meant to encompass variations of
     ± 2 0 % or ±10%, in some instances     ±5%, in some instances ±1%, and in some
     instances ±0.1 % from the specified value, as such variations are appropriate to
     perform the disclosed methods.
                      "Activation," as used herein, refers to the state of a T cell that has been
 10  sufficiently stimulated to induce detectable cellular proliferation. Activation can also
     be associated with induced cytokine production, and detectable effector functions.
     The term "activated T cells" refers to, among other things, T cells that are undergoing
     cell division.
                      The term "antibody," as used herein, refers to an immunoglobulin
 15  molecule which specifically binds with an antigen. Antibodies can be intact
     immunoglobulins derived from natural sources or from recombinant sources and can
     be immunoreactive portions of intact immunoglobulins. Antibodies are typically
     tetramers of immunoglobulin molecules. The antibodies in the present invention may
     exist in a variety of forms including, for example, polyclonal antibodies, monoclonal
20   antibodies, Fv, Fab and F(ab) 2 , as well as single chain antibodies and humanized
     antibodies (Harlow et al., 1999, In: Using Antibodies: A Laboratory Manual, Cold
     Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, NY; Harlow et al., 1989, In: Antibodies: A
     Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring Harbor, New York; Houston et al., 1988, Proc. Natl.
     Acad. Sci. USA 85:5879-5883; Bird et al., 1988, Science 242:423-426).
25                    The term "antibody fragment" refers to a portion of an intact antibody
     and refers to the antigenic determining variable regions of an intact antibody.
     Examples of antibody fragments include, but are not limited to, Fab, Fab', F(ab')2, and
     Fv fragments, linear antibodies, scFv antibodies, and multispecific antibodies formed
     from antibody fragments.
30                    An "antibody heavy chain," as used herein, refers to the larger of the
     two types of polypeptide chains present in all antibody molecules in their naturally
     occurring conformations.
                      An "antibody light chain," as used herein, refers to the smaller of the
     two types of polypeptide chains present in all antibody molecules in their naturally
                                                         7

WO 2014/011996                                                              PCT/US2013/050287
     occurring conformations.    K and k light chains refer to the two major antibody light
     chain isotypes.
                      By the term "synthetic antibody" as used herein, is meant an antibody
     which is generated using recombinant DNA technology, such as, for example, an
  5  antibody expressed by a bacteriophage as described herein. The term should also be
     construed to mean an antibody which has been generated by the synthesis of a DNA
     molecule encoding the antibody and which DNA molecule expresses an antibody
     protein, or an amino acid sequence specifying the antibody, wherein the DNA or
     amino acid sequence has been obtained using synthetic DNA or amino acid sequence
 10  technology which is available and well known in the art.
                      The term "antigen" or "Ag" as used herein is defined as a molecule
     that provokes an immune response. This immune response may involve either
     antibody production, or the activation of specific immunologically-competent cells, or
     both. The skilled artisan will understand that any macromolecule, including virtually
 15  all proteins or peptides, can serve as an antigen. Furthermore, antigens can be derived
     from recombinant or genomic DNA. A skilled artisan will understand that any DNA,
     which comprises a nucleotide sequences or a partial nucleotide sequence encoding a
     protein that elicits an immune response therefore encodes an "antigen" as that term is
     used herein. Furthermore, one skilled in the art will understand that an antigen need
20   not be encoded solely by a full length nucleotide sequence of a gene. It is readily
     apparent that the present invention includes, but is not limited to, the use of partial
     nucleotide sequences of more than one gene and that these nucleotide sequences are
     arranged in various combinations to elicit the desired immune response. Moreover, a
     skilled artisan will understand that an antigen need not be encoded by a "gene" at all.
25   It is readily apparent that an antigen can be generated synthesized or can be derived
     from a biological sample. Such a biological sample can include, but is not limited to a
     tissue sample, a tumor sample, a cell or a biological fluid.
                      The term "anti-tumor effect" as used herein, refers to a biological
     effect which can be manifested by a decrease in tumor volume, a decrease in the
30   number of tumor cells, a decrease in the number of metastases, an increase in life
     expectancy, or amelioration of various physiological symptoms associated with the
     cancerous condition. An "anti-tumor effect" can also be manifested by the ability of
                                                        8

WO 2014/011996                                                             PCT/US2013/050287
     the peptides, polynucleotides, cells and antibodies of the invention in prevention of
     the occurrence of tumor in the first place.
                     The term "auto-antigen" means, in accordance with the present
     invention, any self-antigen which is mistakenly recognized by the immune system as
  5  being foreign. Auto-antigens comprise, but are not limited to, cellular proteins,
     phosphoproteins, cellular surface proteins, cellular lipids, nucleic acids, glycoproteins,
     including cell surface receptors.
                     The term "autoimmune disease" as used herein is defined as a disorder
     that results from an autoimmune response. An autoimmune disease is the result of an
 10  inappropriate and excessive response to a self-antigen. Examples of autoimmune
     diseases include but are not limited to, Addision's disease, alopecia greata, ankylosing
     spondylitis, autoimmune hepatitis, autoimmune parotitis, Crohn's disease, diabetes
     (Type I), dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa, epididymitis, glomerulonephritis, Graves'
     disease, Guillain-Barr syndrome, Hashimoto's disease, hemolytic anemia, systemic
 15  lupus erythematosus, multiple sclerosis, myasthenia gravis, pemphigus vulgaris,
     psoriasis, rheumatic fever, rheumatoid arthritis, sarcoidosis, scleroderma, Sjogren's
     syndrome, spondyloarthropathies, thyroiditis, vasculitis, vitiligo, myxedema,
     pernicious anemia, ulcerative colitis, among others.
                     As used herein, the term "autologous" is meant to refer to any material
20   derived from the same individual to which it is later to be re-introduced into the
     individual.
                     "Allogeneic" refers to a graft derived from a different animal of the
     same species.
                     "Xenogeneic" refers to a graft derived from an animal of a different
25   species.
                     The term "cancer" as used herein is defined as disease characterized by
     the rapid and uncontrolled growth of aberrant cells. Cancer cells can spread locally or
     through the bloodstream and lymphatic system to other parts of the body. Examples of
     various cancers include but are not limited to, breast cancer, prostate cancer, ovarian
30   cancer, cervical cancer, skin cancer, pancreatic cancer, colorectal cancer, renal cancer,
     liver cancer, brain cancer, lymphoma, leukemia, lung cancer and the like.
                     "Co-stimulatory ligand," as the term is used herein, includes a
     molecule on an antigen presenting cell (e.g., an aAPC, dendritic cell, B cell, and the
     like) that specifically binds a cognate co-stimulatory molecule on a T cell, thereby
                                                       9

WO 2014/011996                                                              PCT/US2013/050287
     providing a signal which, in addition to the primary signal provided by, for instance,
     binding of a TCR/CD3 complex with an MHC molecule loaded with peptide,
     mediates a T cell response, including, but not limited to, proliferation, activation,
     differentiation, and the like. A co-stimulatory ligand can include, but is not limited to,
  5  CD7, B7-1 (CD80), B7-2 (CD86), PD-Li, PD-L2, 4-1BBL, OX40L, inducible
     costimulatory ligand (ICOS-L), intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM), CD30L,
     CD40, CD70, CD83, HLA-G, MICA, MICB, HVEM, lymphotoxin beta receptor,
     3/TR6, ILT3, ILT4, HVEM, an agonist or antibody that binds Toll ligand receptor and
     a ligand that specifically binds with B7-H3. A co-stimulatory ligand also
 10  encompasses, inter alia, an antibody that specifically binds with a co-stimulatory
     molecule present on a T cell, such as, but not limited to, CD27, CD28, 4-1BB, OX40,
     CD30, CD40, PD-1, ICOS, lymphocyte function-associated antigen-i (LFA-1), CD2,
     CD7, LIGHT, NKG2C, B7-H3, and a ligand that specifically binds with CD83.
                     A "co-stimulatory molecule" refers to the cognate binding partner on a
 15  T cell that specifically binds with a co-stimulatory ligand, thereby mediating a co
     stimulatory response by the T cell, such as, but not limited to, proliferation. Co
     stimulatory molecules include, but are not limited to an MHC class I molecule, BTLA
     and a Toll ligand receptor.
                     A "co-stimulatory signal," as used herein, refers to a signal, which in
20   combination with a primary signal, such as TCR/CD3 ligation, leads to T cell
     proliferation and/or upregulation or downregulation of key molecules.
                     A "disease" is a state of health of an animal wherein the animal cannot
     maintain homeostasis, and wherein if the disease is not ameliorated then the animal's
     health continues to deteriorate. In contrast, a "disorder" in an animal is a state of
25   health in which the animal is able to maintain homeostasis, but in which the animal's
     state of health is less favorable than it would be in the absence of the disorder. Left
     untreated, a disorder does not necessarily cause a further decrease in the animal's state
     of health.
                     An "effective amount" as used herein, means an amount which
30   provides a therapeutic or prophylactic benefit.
                     "Encoding" refers to the inherent property of specific sequences of
     nucleotides in a polynucleotide, such as a gene, a cDNA, or an mRNA, to serve as
     templates for synthesis of other polymers and macromolecules in biological processes
     having either a defined sequence of nucleotides (i.e., rRNA, tRNA and mRNA) or a
                                                        10

WO 2014/011996                                                            PCT/US2013/050287
     defined sequence of amino acids and the biological properties resulting therefrom.
     Thus, a gene encodes a protein if transcription and translation of mRNA
     corresponding to that gene produces the protein in a cell or other biological system.
     Both the coding strand, the nucleotide sequence of which is identical to the mRNA
  5  sequence and is usually provided in sequence listings, and the non-coding strand, used
     as the template for transcription of a gene or cDNA, can be referred to as encoding the
     protein or other product of that gene or cDNA.
                      As used herein "endogenous" refers to any material from or produced
     inside an organism, cell, tissue or system.
 10                   As used herein, the term "exogenous" refers to any material introduced
     from or produced outside an organism, cell, tissue or system.
                      The term "expression" as used herein is defined as the transcription
     and/or translation of a particular nucleotide sequence driven by its promoter.
                      "Expression vector" refers to a vector comprising a recombinant
 15  polynucleotide comprising expression control sequences operatively linked to a
     nucleotide sequence to be expressed. An expression vector comprises sufficient cis
     acting elements for expression; other elements for expression can be supplied by the
     host cell or in an in vitro expression system. Expression vectors include all those
     known in the art, such as cosmids, plasmids (e.g., naked or contained in liposomes)
20   and viruses (e.g., lentiviruses, retroviruses, adenoviruses, and adeno-associated
     viruses) that incorporate the recombinant polynucleotide.
                      "Homologous" refers to the sequence similarity or sequence identity
     between two polypeptides or between two nucleic acid molecules. When a position in
     both of the two compared sequences is occupied by the same base or amino acid
25   monomer subunit, e.g., if a position in each of two DNA molecules is occupied by
     adenine, then the molecules are homologous at that position. The percent of homology
     between two sequences is a function of the number of matching or homologous
     positions shared by the two sequences divided by the number of positions compared
     X 100. For example, if 6 of 10 of the positions in two sequences are matched or
30   homologous then the two sequences are 60% homologous. By way of example, the
     DNA sequences ATTGCC and TATGGC share 50% homology. Generally, a
     comparison is made when two sequences are aligned to give maximum homology.
                      The term "immunoglobulin" or "Ig," as used herein is defined as a
     class of proteins, which function as antibodies. Antibodies expressed by B cells are
                                                        11

WO 2014/011996                                                              PCT/US2013/050287
     sometimes referred to as the BCR (B cell receptor) or antigen receptor. The five
     members included in this class of proteins are IgA, IgG, IgM, IgD, and IgE. IgA is the
     primary antibody that is present in body secretions, such as saliva, tears, breast milk,
     gastrointestinal secretions and mucus secretions of the respiratory and genitourinary
  5  tracts. IgG is the most common circulating antibody. IgM is the main immunoglobulin
     produced in the primary immune response in most subjects. It is the most efficient
     immunoglobulin in agglutination, complement fixation, and other antibody responses,
     and is important in defense against bacteria and viruses. IgD is the immunoglobulin
     that has no known antibody function, but may serve as an antigen receptor. IgE is the
 10  immunoglobulin that mediates immediate hypersensitivity by causing release of
     mediators from mast cells and basophils upon exposure to allergen.
                      As used herein, an "instructional material" includes a publication, a
     recording, a diagram, or any other medium of expression which can be used to
     communicate the usefulness of the compositions and methods of the invention. The
 15  instructional material of the kit of the invention may, for example, be affixed to a
     container which contains the nucleic acid, peptide, and/or composition of the
     invention or be shipped together with a container which contains the nucleic acid,
     peptide, and/or composition. Alternatively, the instructional material may be shipped
     separately from the container with the intention that the instructional material and the
20   compound be used cooperatively by the recipient.
                      "Isolated" means altered or removed from the natural state. For
     example, a nucleic acid or a peptide naturally present in a living animal is not
     "isolated," but the same nucleic acid or peptide partially or completely separated from
     the coexisting materials of its natural state is "isolated." An isolated nucleic acid or
25   protein can exist in substantially purified form, or can exist in a non-native
     environment such as, for example, a host cell.
                      In the context of the present invention, the following abbreviations for
     the commonly occurring nucleic acid bases are used. "A" refers to adenosine, "C"
     refers to cytosine, "G" refers to guanosine, "T" refers to thymidine, and "U" refers to
30   uridine.
                      A "lentivirus" as used herein refers to a genus of the Retroviridae
     family. Lentiviruses are unique among the retroviruses in being able to infect non
     dividing cells; they can deliver a significant amount of genetic information into the
     DNA of the host cell, so they are one of the most efficient methods of a gene delivery
                                                         12

WO 2014/011996                                                              PCT/US2013/050287
     vector. HIV, SIV, and FIV are all examples of lentiviruses. Vectors derived from
     lentiviruses offer the means to achieve significant levels of gene transfer in vivo.
                      By the term "modulating," as used herein, is meant mediating a
     detectable increase or decrease in the level of a response in a subject compared with
  5  the level of a response in the subject in the absence of a treatment or compound,
     and/or compared with the level of a response in an otherwise identical but untreated
     subject. The term encompasses perturbing and/or affecting a native signal or response
     thereby mediating a beneficial therapeutic response in a subject, preferably, a human.
                      Unless otherwise specified, a "nucleotide sequence encoding an amino
 10  acid sequence" includes all nucleotide sequences that are degenerate versions of each
     other and that encode the same amino acid sequence. Nucleotide sequences that
     encode proteins and RNA may include introns.
                      The term "operably linked" refers to functional linkage between a
     regulatory sequence and a heterologous nucleic acid sequence resulting in expression
 15  of the latter. For example, a first nucleic acid sequence is operably linked with a
     second nucleic acid sequence when the first nucleic acid sequence is placed in a
     functional relationship with the second nucleic acid sequence. For instance, a
     promoter is operably linked to a coding sequence if the promoter affects the
     transcription or expression of the coding sequence. Generally, operably linked DNA
20   sequences are contiguous and, where necessary to join two protein coding regions, in
     the same reading frame.
                      The term "overexpressed" tumor antigen or "overexpression" of the
     tumor antigen is intended to indicate an abnormal level of expression of the tumor
     antigen in a cell from a disease area like a solid tumor within a specific tissue or organ
25   of the patient relative to the level of expression in a normal cell from that tissue or
     organ. Patients having solid tumors or a hematological malignancy characterized by
     overexpression of the tumor antigen can be determined by standard assays known in
     the art.
                      "Parenteral" administration of an immunogenic composition includes,
30   e.g., subcutaneous (s.c.), intravenous (i.v.), intramuscular (i.m.), or intrasternal
     injection, or infusion techniques.
                      The terms "patient," "subject," "individual," and the like are used
     interchangeably herein, and refer to any animal, or cells thereof whether in vitro or in
                                                         13

WO 2014/011996                                                              PCT/US2013/050287
     situ, amenable to the methods described herein. In certain non-limiting embodiments,
     the patient, subject or individual is a human.
                      The term "polynucleotide" as used herein is defined as a chain of
     nucleotides. Furthermore, nucleic acids are polymers of nucleotides. Thus, nucleic
  5  acids and polynucleotides as used herein are interchangeable. One skilled in the art
     has the general knowledge that nucleic acids are polynucleotides, which can be
     hydrolyzed into the monomeric "nucleotides." The monomeric nucleotides can be
     hydrolyzed into nucleosides. As used herein polynucleotides include, but are not
     limited to, all nucleic acid sequences which are obtained by any means available in
 10  the art, including, without limitation, recombinant means, i.e., the cloning of nucleic
     acid sequences from a recombinant library or a cell genome, using ordinary cloning
     technology and PCR, and the like, and by synthetic means.
                      As used herein, the terms "peptide," "polypeptide," and "protein" are
     used interchangeably, and refer to a compound comprised of amino acid residues
 15  covalently linked by peptide bonds. A protein or peptide must contain at least two
     amino acids, and no limitation is placed on the maximum number of amino acids that
     can comprise a protein's or peptide's sequence. Polypeptides include any peptide or
     protein comprising two or more amino acids joined to each other by peptide bonds.
     As used herein, the term refers to both short chains, which also commonly are referred
20   to in the art as peptides, oligopeptides and oligomers, for example, and to longer
     chains, which generally are referred to in the art as proteins, of which there are many
     types. "Polypeptides" include, for example, biologically active fragments,
     substantially homologous polypeptides, oligopeptides, homodimers, heterodimers,
     variants of polypeptides, modified polypeptides, derivatives, analogs, fusion proteins,
25   among others. The polypeptides include natural peptides, recombinant peptides,
     synthetic peptides, or a combination thereof.
                      The term "promoter" as used herein is defined as a DNA sequence
     recognized by the synthetic machinery of the cell, or introduced synthetic machinery,
     required to initiate the specific transcription of a polynucleotide sequence.
30                    As used herein, the term "promoter/regulatory sequence" means a
     nucleic acid sequence which is required for expression of a gene product operably
     linked to the promoter/regulatory sequence. In some instances, this sequence may be
     the core promoter sequence and in other instances, this sequence may also include an
     enhancer sequence and other regulatory elements which are required for expression of
                                                         14

WO 2014/011996                                                              PCT/US2013/050287
     the gene product. The promoter/regulatory sequence may, for example, be one which
     expresses the gene product in a tissue specific manner.
                      A "constitutive" promoter is a nucleotide sequence which, when
     operably linked with a polynucleotide which encodes or specifies a gene product,
  5  causes the gene product to be produced in a cell under most or all physiological
     conditions of the cell.
                      An "inducible" promoter is a nucleotide sequence which, when
     operably linked with a polynucleotide which encodes or specifies a gene product,
     causes the gene product to be produced in a cell substantially only when an inducer
 10  which corresponds to the promoter is present in the cell.
                      A "tissue-specific" promoter is a nucleotide sequence which, when
     operably linked with a polynucleotide encodes or specified by a gene, causes the gene
     product to be produced in a cell substantially only if the cell is a cell of the tissue type
     corresponding to the promoter.
 15                   By the term "specifically binds," as used herein with respect to an
     antibody, is meant an antibody which recognizes a specific antigen, but does not
     substantially recognize or bind other molecules in a sample. For example, an antibody
     that specifically binds to an antigen from one species may also bind to that antigen
     from one or more species. But, such cross-species reactivity does not itself alter the
20   classification of an antibody as specific. In another example, an antibody that
     specifically binds to an antigen may also bind to different allelic forms of the antigen.
     However, such cross reactivity does not itself alter the classification of an antibody as
     specific. In some instances, the terms "specific binding" or "specifically binding," can
     be used in reference to the interaction of an antibody, a protein, or a peptide with a
25   second chemical species, to mean that the interaction is dependent upon the presence
     of a particular structure (e.g., an antigenic determinant or epitope) on the chemical
     species; for example, an antibody recognizes and binds to a specific protein structure
     rather than to proteins generally. If an antibody is specific for epitope "A", the
     presence of a molecule containing epitope A (or free, unlabeled A), in a reaction
30   containing labeled "A" and the antibody, will reduce the amount of labeled A bound
     to the antibody.
                      By the term "stimulation," is meant a primary response induced by
     binding of a stimulatory molecule (e.g., a TCR/CD3 complex) with its cognate ligand
     thereby mediating a signal transduction event, such as, but not limited to, signal
                                                        15

WO 2014/011996                                                               PCT/US2013/050287
     transduction via the TCR/CD3 complex. Stimulation can mediate altered expression
     of certain molecules, such as downregulation of TGF-p, and/or reorganization of
     cytoskeletal structures, and the like.
                      A "stimulatory molecule," as the term is used herein, means a
  5  molecule on a T cell that specifically binds with a cognate stimulatory ligand present
     on an antigen presenting cell.
                      A "stimulatory ligand," as used herein, means a ligand that when
     present on an antigen presenting cell (e.g., an aAPC, a dendritic cell, a B-cell, and the
     like) can specifically bind with a cognate binding partner (referred to herein as a
 10  "stimulatory molecule") on a T cell, thereby mediating a primary response by the T
     cell, including, but not limited to, activation, initiation of an immune response,
     proliferation, and the like. Stimulatory ligands are well-known in the art and
     encompass, inter alia, an MHC Class I molecule loaded with a peptide, an anti-CD3
     antibody, a superagonist anti-CD28 antibody, and a superagonist anti-CD2 antibody.
 15                   The term "subject" is intended to include living organisms in which an
     immune response can be elicited (e.g., mammals). Examples of subjects include
     humans, dogs, cats, mice, rats, and transgenic species thereof.
                      As used herein, a "substantially purified" cell is a cell that is
     essentially free of other cell types. A substantially purified cell also refers to a cell
20   which has been separated from other cell types with which it is normally associated in
     its naturally occurring state. In some instances, a population of substantially purified
     cells refers to a homogenous population of cells. In other instances, this term refers
     simply to cell that have been separated from the cells with which they are naturally
     associated in their natural state. In some embodiments, the cells are cultured in vitro.
25   In other embodiments, the cells are not cultured in vitro.
                      The term "therapeutic" as used herein means a treatment and/or
     prophylaxis. A therapeutic effect is obtained by suppression, remission, or eradication
     of a disease state.
                      The term "therapeutically effective amount" refers to the amount of the
30   subject compound that will elicit the biological or medical response of a tissue,
     system, or subject that is being sought by the researcher, veterinarian, medical doctor
     or other clinician. The term "therapeutically effective amount" includes that amount
     of a compound that, when administered, is sufficient to prevent development of, or
     alleviate to some extent, one or more of the signs or symptoms of the disorder or
                                                         16

WO 2014/011996                                                              PCT/US2013/050287
     disease being treated. The therapeutically effective amount will vary depending on the
     compound, the disease and its severity and the age, weight, etc., of the subject to be
     treated.
                     To "treat" a disease as the term is used herein, means to reduce the
  5  frequency or severity of at least one sign or symptom of a disease or disorder
     experienced by a subject.
                     The term "transfected" or "transformed" or "transduced" as used
     herein refers to a process by which exogenous nucleic acid is transferred or
     introduced into the host cell. A "transfected" or "transformed" or "transduced" cell is
 10  one which has been transfected, transformed or transduced with exogenous nucleic
     acid. The cell includes the primary subject cell and its progeny.
                     The phrase "under transcriptional control" or "operatively linked" as
     used herein means that the promoter is in the correct location and orientation in
     relation to a polynucleotide to control the initiation of transcription by RNA
 15  polymerase and expression of the polynucleotide.
                     A "vector" is a composition of matter which comprises an isolated
     nucleic acid and which can be used to deliver a nucleic acid to the interior of a cell.
     Numerous vectors are known in the art including, but not limited to, linear
     polynucleotides, polynucleotides associated with ionic or amphiphilic compounds,
20   plasmids, and viruses. Thus, the term "vector" includes an autonomously replicating
     plasmid or a virus. The term should also be construed to include non-plasmid and
     non-viral compounds which facilitate transfer of nucleic acid into cells, such as, for
     example, polylysine compounds, liposomes, and the like. Examples of viral vectors
     include, but are not limited to, adenoviral vectors, adeno-associated virus vectors,
25   retroviral vectors, and the like.
                     Ranges: throughout this disclosure, various aspects of the invention
     can be presented in a range format. It should be understood that the description in
     range format is merely for convenience and brevity and should not be construed as an
     inflexible limitation on the scope of the invention. Accordingly, the description of a
30   range should be considered to have specifically disclosed all the possible subranges as
     well as individual numerical values within that range. For example, description of a
     range such as from 1 to 6 should be considered to have specifically disclosed
     subranges such as from 1 to 3, from 1 to 4, from 1 to 5, from 2 to 4, from 2 to 6, from
                                                        17

WO 2014/011996                                                              PCT/US2013/050287
     3 to 6 etc., as well as individual numbers within that range, for example, 1, 2, 2.7, 3,
     4, 5, 5.3, and 6. This applies regardless of the breadth of the range.
     Description
  5                   The present invention provides methods of analyzing vector
     supernatants useful for transducing T cells destined for administration to a human
     subject. The present invention also provides methods of analyzing transduced T cells,
     and their supernatants, destined for administration to a human subject. In various
     embodiments, the methods of analysis of the invention include methods of analyzing
 10  T cell viability, T cell character (e.g., CD3, CD4, CD8, CD25, CD27, CD45RA,
     CD57, CD62L, CD95, CD127, CD134, CD244. CCR7, CD40L, CTLA4, PD-1, HLA
     DR, TIM3, Ki-67, perforin, and/or granzyme expression), transduction efficiency, the
     presence and quantity of endotoxin, the presence and quantity of mycoplasma, the
     presence and quantity of replication competent lentivirus (RCL), the presence and
 15  quantity of p24, the presence and quantity of nucleic acid and/or protein derived from
     each of the plasmids used to package the lentivirus plasmid, the presence and quantity
     of VSV-G nucleic acid and/or protein, HIVgag, residual anti-CD3/anti-CD28 coated
     beads, mouse antibodies, pooled human serum, bovine serum albumin, bovine serum,
     culture media components, vector packaging cell or plasmid components, the
20   presence and quantity of bacteria (e.g., Alcaligenes faecalis, Candida albicans,
     Escherichia coli, Haemophilus influenza, Neisseria meningitides, Pseudomonas
     aeruginosa, Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pneumonia, and Streptococcus
     pyogenes group A), or bacterial products which activate and/or modulate immune
     system (e.g., LPS, nucleic acid, RNA, etc.), and the presence and quantity of fungus.
25                    In some embodiments, the human subject may have cancer. In various
     embodiments, the cancer may be a hematological malignancy, a solid tumor, a
     primary or a metastasizing tumor. Preferably, the cancer is a hematological
     malignancy, and more preferably, the cancer is Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
     (CLL). Other diseases treatable using the compositions and methods of the invention
30   include viral, bacterial and parasitic infections as well as autoimmune diseases.
                      In one embodiment, the vector comprises nucleic acid sequences
     encoding a CAR, wherein when the CAR is expressed by a T cell, the CAR T cell
     exhibits an antitumor property. The CAR can be engineered to comprise an
     extracellular domain having an antigen binding domain fused to an intracellular
                                                        18

WO 2014/011996                                                            PCT/US2013/050287
     signaling domain of the T cell antigen receptor complex zeta chain (e.g., CD3 zeta).
     The CAR, when expressed in a T cell is able to redirect antigen recognition based on
     the antigen binding specificity. An exemplary antigen is CD19 because this antigen is
     expressed on malignant B cells. However, the invention is not limited to a CAR that
  5  recognizes CD 19. Rather, the invention includes any antigen binding moiety that
     when bound to its cognate antigen, affects a tumor cell so that the tumor cell fails to
     grow, is prompted to die, or otherwise is affected so that the tumor burden in a patient
     is diminished or eliminated. The antigen binding moiety is preferably fused with an
     intracellular domain from one or more of a costimulatory molecule and a zeta chain.
 10  Preferably, the antigen binding moiety is fused with one or more intracellular domains
     selected from the group of a CD137 (4-1BB) signaling domain, a CD28 signaling
     domain, a CD3zeta signal domain, and any combination thereof.
                     In one embodiment, the vector of the invention comprises a nucleic
     acid sequence encoding a CD 137 (4-1BB) signaling domain. This is because the
 15  CAR-mediated T-cell responses can be further enhanced with the addition of
     costimulatory domains. For example, inclusion of the CD137 (4-1BB) signaling
     domain significantly increases anti-tumor activity and in vivo persistence of CAR T
     cells compared to an otherwise identical CAR T cell not engineered to express CD 137
     (4-1BB). Methods of genetically modifying T cells with CARs are described in
20   PCT/US1 1/6419 1, incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
     Composition
                     The present invention provides a vector comprising nucleic acids
     encoding a CAR, wherein the CAR comprises an extracellular and intracellular
25   domain. The extracellular domain comprises a target-specific binding element
     otherwise referred to as an antigen binding moiety. The intracellular domain or
     otherwise the cytoplasmic domain comprises, a costimulatory signaling region and a
     zeta chain portion. The costimulatory signaling region refers to a portion of the CAR
     comprising the intracellular domain of a costimulatory molecule. Costimulatory
30   molecules are cell surface molecules other than antigens receptors or their ligands that
     are required for an efficient response of lymphocytes to antigen.
                     Between the extracellular domain and the transmembrane domain of
     the CAR, or between the cytoplasmic domain and the transmembrane domain of the
     CAR, there may be incorporated a spacer domain. As used herein, the term "spacer
                                                      19

WO 2014/011996                                                             PCT/US2013/050287
     domain" generally means any oligo- or polypeptide that functions to link the
     transmembrane domain to, either the extracellular domain or, the cytoplasmic domain
     in the polypeptide chain. A spacer domain may comprise up to 300 amino acids,
     preferably 10 to 100 amino acids and most preferably 25 to 50 amino acids.
  5
                     Antigen binding moiety
                     In one embodiment, the vector of the invention comprises a nucleic
     acid encoding a CAR, wherein the CAR comprises a target-specific binding element
     otherwise referred to as an antigen binding moiety. The choice of moiety depends
 10  upon the type and number of ligands that define the surface of a target cell. For
     example, the antigen binding domain may be chosen to recognize a ligand that acts as
     a cell surface marker on target cells associated with a particular disease state. Thus
     examples of cell surface markers that may act as ligands for the antigen moiety
     domain in the CAR of the invention include those associated with viral, bacterial and
 15  parasitic infections, autoimmune disease and cancer cells.
                     In one embodiment, the vector of the invention comprises a nucleic
     acid encoding a CAR, wherein the CAR is engineered to target a tumor antigen of
     interest by way of engineering a desired antigen binding moiety that specifically binds
     to an antigen on a tumor cell. In the context of the present invention, "tumor antigen"
20   or "hyperporoliferative disorder antigen" or "antigen associated with a
     hyperproliferative disorder," refers to antigens that are common to specific
     hyperproliferative disorders such as cancer. The antigens discussed herein are merely
     included by way of example. The list is not intended to be exclusive and further
     examples will be readily apparent to those of skill in the art.
25                   Tumor antigens are proteins that are produced by tumor cells that elicit
     an immune response, particularly T-cell mediated immune responses. The selection of
     the antigen binding moiety of the invention will depend on the particular type of
     cancer to be treated. Tumor antigens are well known in the art and include, for
     example, a glioma-associated antigen, carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), p-human
30   chorionic gonadotropin, alphafetoprotein (AFP), lectin-reactive AFP, thyroglobulin,
     RAGE-1, MN-CA IX, human telomerase reverse transcriptase, RUl, RU2 (AS),
     intestinal carboxyl esterase, mut hsp70-2, M-CSF, prostase, prostate-specific antigen
     (PSA), PAP, NY-ESO-1, LAGE-la, p53, prostein, PSMA, Her2/neu, survivin and
     telomerase, prostate-carcinoma tumor antigen-I (PCTA-1), MAGE, ELF2M,
                                                       20

WO 2014/011996                                                            PCT/US2013/050287
     neutrophil elastase, ephrinB2, CD22, insulin growth factor (IGF)-I, IGF-II, IGF-I
     receptor and mesothelin.
                     In one embodiment, the tumor antigen comprises one or more
     antigenic cancer epitopes associated with a malignant tumor. Malignant tumors
  5  express a number of proteins that can serve as target antigens for an immune attack.
     These molecules include but are not limited to tissue-specific antigens such as
     MART-1, tyrosinase and GP 100 in melanoma and prostatic acid phosphatase (PAP)
     and prostate-specific antigen (PSA) in prostate cancer. Other target molecules belong
     to the group of transformation-related molecules such as the oncogene HER
 10  2/Neu/ErbB-2. Yet another group of target antigens are onco-fetal antigens such as
     carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA). In B-cell lymphoma the tumor-specific idiotype
     immunoglobulin constitutes a truly tumor-specific immunoglobulin antigen that is
     unique to the individual tumor. B-cell differentiation antigens such as CD 19, CD20
     and CD37 are other candidates for target antigens in B-cell lymphoma. Some of these
 15  antigens (CEA, HER-2, CD 19, CD20, idiotype) have been used as targets for passive
     immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies with limited success.
                     The type of tumor antigen referred to in the invention may also be a
     tumor-specific antigen (TSA) or a tumor-associated antigen (TAA). A TSA is unique
     to tumor cells and does not occur on other cells in the body. A TAA associated
20   antigen is not unique to a tumor cell and instead is also expressed on a normal cell
     under conditions that fail to induce a state of immunologic tolerance to the antigen.
     The expression of the antigen on the tumor may occur under conditions that enable
     the immune system to respond to the antigen. TAAs may be antigens that are
     expressed on normal cells during fetal development when the immune system is
25   immature and unable to respond or they may be antigens that are normally present at
     extremely low levels on normal cells but which are expressed at much higher levels
     on tumor cells.
                     Non-limiting examples of TSA or TAA antigens include the following:
     Differentiation antigens such as MART-1/MelanA (MART-I), gpI00 (Pmel 17),
30   tyrosinase, TRP-1, TRP-2 and tumor-specific multilineage antigens such as MAGE-1,
     MAGE-3, BAGE, GAGE-1, GAGE-2, p15; overexpressed embryonic antigens such
     as CEA; overexpressed oncogenes and mutated tumor-suppressor genes such as p53,
     Ras, HER-2/neu; unique tumor antigens resulting from chromosomal translocations;
     such as BCR-ABL, E2A-PRL, H4-RET, IGH-IGK, MYL-RAR; and viral antigens,
                                                       21

WO 2014/011996                                                             PCT/US2013/050287
     such as the Epstein Barr virus antigens EBVA and the human papillomavirus (HPV)
     antigens E6 and E7. Other large, protein-based antigens include TSP-180, MAGE-4,
     MAGE-5, MAGE-6, RAGE, NY-ESO, pi85erbB2, pI80erbB-3, c-met, nm-23Hi,
     PSA, TAG-72, CA 19-9, CA 72-4, CAM 17.1, NuMa, K-ras, beta-Catenin, CDK4,
  5  Mum-1, p 15, p 16, 43-9F, 5T4, 791Tgp72, alpha-fetoprotein, beta-HCG, BCA225,
     BTAA, CA 125, CA 15-3\CA 27.29\BCAA, CA 195, CA 242, CA-50, CAM43,
     CD68\PI, CO-029, FGF-5, G250, Ga733\EpCAM, HTgp-175, M344, MA-50, MG7
     Ag, MOV18, NB/70K, NY-CO-1, RCAS1, SDCCAG16, TA-90\Mac-2 binding
     protein\cyclophilin C-associated protein, TAAL6, TAG72, TLP, and TPS.
 10                  In a preferred embodiment, the antigen binding moiety portion of the
     CAR targets an antigen that includes but is not limited to CD19, CD20, CD22, RORi,
     Mesothelin, CD33/IL3Ra, c-Met, PSMA, Glycolipid F77, EGFRvIII, GD-2, MY
     ESO-I TCR, MAGE A3 TCR, and the like.
                     Depending on the desired antigen to be targeted, the CAR of the
 15  invention can be engineered to include the appropriate antigen bind moiety that is
     specific to the desired antigen target. For example, if CD 19 is the desired antigen that
     is to be targeted, an antibody for CD19 can be used as the antigen bind moiety for
     incorporation into the CAR of the invention.
                     In one embodiment, the vector of the invention comprises nucleic acid
20   encoding a CAR, wherein the antigen binding moiety portion of the CAR of the
     invention targets CD 19.
                     Transmembrane domain
                     The transmembrane domain of the CAR can be designed to comprise a
25   transmembrane domain that is fused to the extracellular domain of the CAR. In one
     embodiment, the transmembrane domain that naturally is associated with one of the
     domains in the CAR is used. In some instances, the transmembrane domain can be
     selected or modified by amino acid substitution to avoid binding of such domains to
     the transmembrane domains of the same or different surface membrane proteins to
30   minimize interactions with other members of the receptor complex.
                     The transmembrane domain may be derived either from a natural or
     from a synthetic source. Where the source is natural, the domain may be derived from
     any membrane-bound or transmembrane protein. Transmembrane regions of
     particular use in this invention may be derived from (i.e., comprise at least the
                                                      22

WO 2014/011996                                                              PCT/US2013/050287
     transmembrane region(s) of) the alpha, beta or zeta chain of the T-cell receptor,
     CD28, CD3 epsilon, CD45, CD4, CD5, CD8, CD9, CD16, CD22, CD33, CD37,
     CD64, CD80, CD86, CD134, CD137, CD154. Alternatively the transmembrane
     domain may be synthetic, in which case it will comprise predominantly hydrophobic
  5  residues such as leucine and valine. Preferably a triplet of phenylalanine, tryptophan
     and valine will be found at each end of a synthetic transmembrane domain.
     Optionally, a short oligo- or polypeptide linker, preferably between 2 and 10 amino
     acids in length may form the linkage between the transmembrane domain and the
     cytoplasmic signaling domain of the CAR. A glycine-serine doublet provides a
 10  particularly suitable linker.
                      Preferably, the transmembrane domain in the CAR of the vector of the
     invention is the CD8 transmembrane domain. In some instances, the transmembrane
     domain of the CAR of the invention comprises the CD8a hinge domain.
 15                   Cytoplasmic domain
                      The cytoplasmic domain or otherwise the intracellular signaling
     domain of the CAR of the vector of the invention is responsible for activation of at
     least one of the normal effector functions of the immune cell in which the CAR has
     been placed in. The term "effector function" refers to a specialized function of a cell.
20   Effector function of a T cell, for example, may be cytolytic activity or helper activity
     including the secretion of cytokines. Thus the term "intracellular signaling domain"
     refers to the portion of a protein which transduces the effector function signal and
     directs the cell to perform a specialized function. While usually the entire intracellular
     signaling domain can be employed, in many cases it is not necessary to use the entire
25   chain. To the extent that a truncated portion of the intracellular signaling domain is
     used, such truncated portion may be used in place of the intact chain as long as it
     transduces the effector function signal. The term intracellular signaling domain is thus
     meant to include any truncated portion of the intracellular signaling domain sufficient
     to transduce the effector function signal.
30                    Preferred examples of intracellular signaling domains for use in the
     CAR of the vector of the invention include the cytoplasmic sequences of the T cell
     receptor (TCR) and co-receptors that act in concert to initiate signal transduction
     following antigen receptor engagement, as well as any derivative or variant of these
     sequences and any synthetic sequence that has the same functional capability.
                                                       23

WO 2014/011996                                                              PCT/US2013/050287
                      It is known that signals generated through the TCR alone are
     insufficient for full activation of the T cell and that a secondary or co-stimulatory
     signal is also required. Thus, T cell activation can be said to be mediated by two
     distinct classes of cytoplasmic signaling sequence: those that initiate antigen
  5  dependent primary activation through the TCR (primary cytoplasmic signaling
     sequences) and those that act in an antigen-independent manner to provide a
     secondary or co-stimulatory signal (secondary cytoplasmic signaling sequences).
                      Primary cytoplasmic signaling sequences regulate primary activation
     of the TCR complex either in a stimulatory way, or in an inhibitory way. Primary
 10  cytoplasmic signaling sequences that act in a stimulatory manner may contain
     signaling motifs which are known as immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation
     motifs or ITAMs.
                      Examples of ITAM containing primary cytoplasmic signaling
     sequences that are of particular use in the invention include those derived from TCR
 15  zeta, FcR gamma, FcR beta, CD3 gamma, CD3 delta, CD3 epsilon, CD5, CD22,
     CD79a, CD79b, and CD66d. It is particularly preferred that cytoplasmic signaling
     molecule in the CAR of the invention comprises a cytoplasmic signaling sequence
     derived from CD3 zeta.
                      In a preferred embodiment, the cytoplasmic domain of the CAR can be
20   designed to comprise the CD3-zeta signaling domain by itself or combined with any
     other desired cytoplasmic domain(s) useful in the context of the CAR of the
     invention. For example, the cytoplasmic domain of the CAR can comprise a CD3 zeta
     chain portion and a costimulatory signaling region. The costimulatory signaling
     region refers to a portion of the CAR comprising the intracellular domain of a
25   costimulatory molecule. A costimulatory molecule is a cell surface molecule other
     than an antigen receptor or their ligands that is required for an efficient response of
     lymphocytes to an antigen. Examples of such molecules include CD27, CD28, 4-1BB
     (CD137), OX40, CD30, CD40, PD-1, ICOS, lymphocyte function-associated antigen
      1 (LFA-1), CD2, CD7, LIGHT, NKG2C, B7-H3, and a ligand that specifically binds
30   with CD83, and the like. Thus, while the invention is exemplified primarily with 4
      1BB as the co-stimulatory signaling element, other costimulatory elements are within
     the scope of the invention.
                      The cytoplasmic signaling sequences within the cytoplasmic signaling
     portion of the CAR of the invention may be linked to each other in a random or
                                                         24

WO 2014/011996                                                             PCT/US2013/050287
     specified order. Optionally, a short oligo- or polypeptide linker, preferably between 2
     and 10 amino acids in length may form the linkage. A glycine-serine doublet provides
     a particularly suitable linker.
                     In one embodiment, the cytoplasmic domain is designed to comprise
  5  the signaling domain of CD3-zeta and the signaling domain of CD28. In another
     embodiment, the cytoplasmic domain is designed to comprise the signaling domain of
     CD3-zeta and the signaling domain of 4-1BB. In yet another embodiment, the
     cytoplasmic domain is designed to comprise the signaling domain of CD3-zeta and
     the signaling domain of CD28 and 4-1BB.
 10                  In one embodiment, the cytoplasmic domain in the CAR of the
     invention is designed to comprise the signaling domain of 4-1BB and the signaling
     domain of CD3-zeta.
     Vectors
 15                  The present invention encompasses methods of producing a vector
     comprising sequences of a CAR, wherein the sequence comprises the nucleic acid
     sequence of an antigen binding moiety operably linked to the nucleic acid sequence of
     an intracellular domain. An exemplary intracellular domain that can be used in the
     CAR of the vector of the invention includes but is not limited to the intracellular
20   domain of CD3-zeta, CD28, 4-1BB, and the like. In some instances, the CAR can
     comprise any combination of CD3-zeta, CD28, 4-1BB, and the like.
                     In one embodiment, the CAR of the vector of the invention comprises
     anti-CD 19 scFv, human CD8 hinge and transmembrane domain, and human 4-1BB
     and CD3zeta signaling domains.
25                   The nucleic acid sequences coding for the desired molecules can be
     obtained using recombinant methods known in the art, such as, for example by
     screening libraries from cells expressing the gene, by deriving the gene from a vector
     known to include the same, or by isolating directly from cells and tissues containing
     the same, using standard techniques. Alternatively, the gene of interest can be
30   produced synthetically, rather than cloned.
                     The present invention also provides vectors in which a DNA of the
     present invention is inserted. Vectors derived from retroviruses such as the lentivirus
     are suitable tools to achieve long-term gene transfer since they allow long-term, stable
     integration of a transgene and its propagation in daughter cells. Lentiviral vectors
                                                       25

WO 2014/011996                                                             PCT/US2013/050287
     have the added advantage over vectors derived from onco-retroviruses such as murine
     leukemia viruses in that they can transduce non-proliferating cells, such as
     hepatocytes. They also have the added advantage of low immunogenicity.
                     In brief summary, the expression of natural or synthetic nucleic acids
  5  encoding CARs is typically achieved by operably linking a nucleic acid encoding the
     CAR polypeptide or portions thereof to a promoter, and incorporating the construct
     into an expression vector. The vectors can be suitable for replication and integration
     eukaryotes. Typical cloning vectors contain transcription and translation terminators,
     initiation sequences, and promoters useful for regulation of the expression of the
 10  desired nucleic acid sequence.
                     The expression constructs of the present invention may also be used
     for nucleic acid immunization and gene therapy, using standard gene delivery
     protocols. Methods for gene delivery are known in the art. See, e.g., U.S. Pat. Nos.
     5,399,346, 5,580,859, 5,589,466, incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.
 15  In another embodiment, the invention provides a gene therapy vector.
                     The nucleic acid can be cloned into a number of types of vectors. For
     example, the nucleic acid can be cloned into a vector including, but not limited to a
     plasmid, a phagemid, a phage derivative, an animal virus, and a cosmid. Vectors of
     particular interest include expression vectors, replication vectors, probe generation
20   vectors, and sequencing vectors.
                     Further, the expression vector may be provided to a cell in the form of
     a viral vector. Viral vector technology is well known in the art and is described, for
     example, in Sambrook et al. (2001, Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual, Cold
     Spring Harbor Laboratory, New York), and in other virology and molecular biology
25   manuals. Viruses, which are useful as vectors include, but are not limited to,
     retroviruses, adenoviruses, adeno- associated viruses, herpes viruses, and lentiviruses.
     In general, a suitable vector contains an origin of replication functional in at least one
     organism, a promoter sequence, convenient restriction endonuclease sites, and one or
     more selectable markers, (e.g., WO 01/96584; WO 01/29058; and U.S. Pat. No.
30   6,326,193).
                     A number of viral based systems have been developed for gene
     transfer into mammalian cells. For example, retroviruses provide a convenient
     platform for gene delivery systems. A selected gene can be inserted into a vector and
     packaged in retroviral particles using techniques known in the art. The recombinant
                                                       26

WO 2014/011996                                                               PCT/US2013/050287
     virus can then be isolated and delivered to cells of the subject either in vivo or ex
     vivo. A number of retroviral systems are known in the art. In some embodiments,
     adenovirus vectors are used. A number of adenovirus vectors are known in the art. In
     one embodiment, lentivirus vectors are used.
  5                  Additional promoter elements, e.g., enhancers, regulate the frequency
     of transcriptional initiation. Typically, these are located in the region 30-110 bp
     upstream of the start site, although a number of promoters have recently been shown
     to contain functional elements downstream of the start site as well. The spacing
     between promoter elements frequently is flexible, so that promoter function is
 10  preserved when elements are inverted or moved relative to one another. In the
     thymidine kinase (tk) promoter, the spacing between promoter elements can be
     increased to 50 bp apart before activity begins to decline. Depending on the promoter,
     it appears that individual elements can function either cooperatively or independently
     to activate transcription.
 15                  One example of a suitable promoter is the immediate early
     cytomegalovirus (CMV) promoter sequence. This promoter sequence is a strong
     constitutive promoter sequence capable of driving high levels of expression of any
     polynucleotide sequence operatively linked thereto. Another example of a suitable
     promoter is Elongation Growth Factor -la (EF-la). However, other constitutive
20   promoter sequences may also be used, including, but not limited to the simian virus
     40 (SV40) early promoter, mouse mammary tumor virus (MMTV), human
     immunodeficiency virus (HIV) long terminal repeat (LTR) promoter, MoMuLV
     promoter, an avian leukemia virus promoter, an Epstein-Barr virus immediate early
     promoter, a Rous sarcoma virus promoter, as well as human gene promoters such as,
25   but not limited to, the actin promoter, the myosin promoter, the hemoglobin promoter,
     and the creatine kinase promoter. Further, the invention should not be limited to the
     use of constitutive promoters. Inducible promoters are also contemplated as part of
     the invention. The use of an inducible promoter provides a molecular switch capable
     of turning on expression of the polynucleotide sequence which it is operatively linked
30   when such expression is desired, or turning off the expression when expression is not
     desired. Examples of inducible promoters include, but are not limited to a
     metallothionine promoter, a glucocorticoid promoter, a progesterone promoter, and a
     tetracycline promoter.
                                                        27

WO 2014/011996                                                              PCT/US2013/050287
                      In order to assess the expression of a CAR polypeptide or portions
     thereof, the expression vector to be introduced into a cell can also contain either a
     selectable marker gene or a reporter gene or both to facilitate identification and
     selection of expressing cells from the population of cells sought to be transfected or
  5  infected through viral vectors. In other aspects, the selectable marker may be carried
     on a separate piece of DNA and used in a co-transfection procedure. Both selectable
     markers and reporter genes may be flanked with appropriate regulatory sequences to
     enable expression in the host cells. Useful selectable markers include, for example,
     antibiotic-resistance genes, such as neo and the like.
 10                   Reporter genes are used for identifying potentially transfected cells and
     for evaluating the functionality of regulatory sequences. In general, a reporter gene is
     a gene that is not present in or expressed by the recipient organism or tissue and that
     encodes a polypeptide whose expression is manifested by some easily detectable
     property, e.g., enzymatic activity. Expression of the reporter gene is assayed at a
 15  suitable time after the DNA has been introduced into the recipient cells. Suitable
     reporter genes may include genes encoding luciferase, beta-galactosidase,
     chloramphenicol acetyl transferase, secreted alkaline phosphatase, or the green
     fluorescent protein gene (e.g., Ui-Tei et al., 2000 FEBS Letters 479: 79-82). Suitable
     expression systems are well known and may be prepared using known techniques or
20   obtained commercially. In general, the construct with the minimal 5' flanking region
     showing the highest level of expression of reporter gene is identified as the promoter.
     Such promoter regions may be linked to a reporter gene and used to evaluate agents
     for the ability to modulate promoter-driven transcription.
                      Methods of introducing and expressing genes into a cell are known in
25   the art. In the context of an expression vector, the vector can be readily introduced
     into a host cell, e.g., mammalian, bacterial, yeast, or insect cell by any method in the
     art. For example, the expression vector can be transferred into a host cell by physical,
     chemical, or biological means.
                      Physical methods for introducing a polynucleotide into a host cell
30   include calcium phosphate precipitation, lipofection, particle bombardment,
     microinjection, electroporation, and the like. Methods for producing cells comprising
     vectors and/or exogenous nucleic acids are well-known in the art. See, for example,
     Sambrook et al. (2001, Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring
                                                        28

WO 2014/011996                                                              PCT/US2013/050287
     Harbor Laboratory, New York). A preferred method for the introduction of a
     polynucleotide into a host cell is calcium phosphate transfection.
                     Biological methods for introducing a polynucleotide of interest into a
     host cell include the use of DNA and RNA vectors. Viral vectors, and especially
  5  retroviral vectors, have become the most widely used method for inserting genes into
     mammalian, e.g., human cells. Other viral vectors can be derived from lentivirus,
     poxviruses, herpes simplex virus I, adenoviruses and adeno-associated viruses, and
     the like. See, for example, U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,350,674 and 5,585,362.
                     Chemical means for introducing a polynucleotide into a host cell
 10  include colloidal dispersion systems, such as macromolecule complexes,
     nanocapsules, microspheres, beads, and lipid-based systems including oil-in-water
     emulsions, micelles, mixed micelles, and liposomes. An exemplary colloidal system
     for use as a delivery vehicle in vitro and in vivo is a liposome (e.g., an artificial
     membrane vesicle).
 15                  In the case where a non-viral delivery system is utilized, an exemplary
     delivery vehicle is a liposome. The use of lipid formulations is contemplated for the
     introduction of the nucleic acids into a host cell (in vitro, ex vivo or in vivo). In
     another aspect, the nucleic acid may be associated with a lipid. The nucleic acid
     associated with a lipid may be encapsulated in the aqueous interior of a liposome,
20   interspersed within the lipid bilayer of a liposome, attached to a liposome via a
     linking molecule that is associated with both the liposome and the oligonucleotide,
     entrapped in a liposome, complexed with a liposome, dispersed in a solution
     containing a lipid, mixed with a lipid, combined with a lipid, contained as a
     suspension in a lipid, contained or complexed with a micelle, or otherwise associated
25   with a lipid. Lipid, lipid/DNA or lipid/expression vector associated compositions are
     not limited to any particular structure in solution. For example, they may be present in
     a bilayer structure, as micelles, or with a "collapsed" structure. They may also simply
     be interspersed in a solution, possibly forming aggregates that are not uniform in size
     or shape. Lipids are fatty substances which may be naturally occurring or synthetic
30   lipids. For example, lipids include the fatty droplets that naturally occur in the
     cytoplasm as well as the class of compounds which contain long-chain aliphatic
     hydrocarbons and their derivatives, such as fatty acids, alcohols, amines, amino
     alcohols, and aldehydes.
                                                        29

WO 2014/011996                                                              PCT/US2013/050287
                      Lipids suitable for use can be obtained from commercial sources. For
     example, dimyristyl phosphatidylcholine ("DMPC") can be obtained from Sigma, St.
     Louis, MO; dicetyl phosphate ("DCP") can be obtained from K & K Laboratories
     (Plainview, NY); cholesterol ("Choi") can be obtained from Calbiochem-Behring;
  5  dimyristyl phosphatidylglycerol ("DMPG") and other lipids may be obtained from
     Avanti Polar Lipids, Inc. (Birmingham, AL). Stock solutions of lipids in chloroform
     or chloroform/methanol can be stored at about -20'C. Chloroform is used as the only
     solvent since it is more readily evaporated than methanol. "Liposome" is a generic
     term encompassing a variety of single and multilamellar lipid vehicles formed by the
 10  generation of enclosed lipid bilayers or aggregates. Liposomes can be characterized as
     having vesicular structures with a phospholipid bilayer membrane and an inner
     aqueous medium. Multilamellar liposomes have multiple lipid layers separated by
     aqueous medium. They form spontaneously when phospholipids are suspended in an
     excess of aqueous solution. The lipid components undergo self-rearrangement before
 15  the formation of closed structures and entrap water and dissolved solutes between the
     lipid bilayers (Ghosh et al., 1991 Glycobiology 5: 505-10). However, compositions
     that have different structures in solution than the normal vesicular structure are also
     encompassed. For example, the lipids may assume a micellar structure or merely exist
     as nonuniform aggregates of lipid molecules. Also contemplated are lipofectamine
20   nucleic acid complexes.
                      Regardless of the method used to introduce exogenous nucleic acids
     into a host cell or otherwise expose a cell to the inhibitor of the present invention, in
     order to confirm the presence of the recombinant DNA sequence in the host cell, a
     variety of assays may be performed. Such assays include, for example, "molecular
25   biological" assays well known to those of skill in the art, such as Southern and
     Northern blotting, RT-PCR and PCR; "biochemical" assays, such as detecting the
     presence or absence of a particular peptide, e.g., by immunological means (ELISAs
     and Western blots) or by assays described herein to identify agents falling within the
     scope of the invention.
30
     Sources of T cells
                      Prior to expansion and genetic modification of the T cells of the
     invention, a source of T cells is obtained from a subject. T cells can be obtained from
                                                       30

WO 2014/011996                                                            PCT/US2013/050287
     a number of sources, including peripheral blood mononuclear cells, bone marrow,
     lymph node tissue, cord blood, thymus tissue, tissue from a site of infection, ascites,
     pleural effusion, spleen tissue, and tumors. In certain embodiments of the present
     invention, any number of T cell lines available in the art, may be used. In certain
  5  embodiments of the present invention, T cells can be obtained from a unit of blood
     collected from a subject using any number of techniques known to the skilled artisan,
     such as FicollTM separation. In one preferred embodiment, cells from the circulating
     blood of an individual are obtained by apheresis. The apheresis product typically
     contains lymphocytes, including T cells, monocytes, granulocytes, B cells, other
 10  nucleated white blood cells, red blood cells, and platelets. In one embodiment, the
     cells collected by apheresis may be washed to remove the plasma fraction and to place
     the cells in an appropriate buffer or media for subsequent processing steps. In one
     embodiment of the invention, the cells are washed with phosphate buffered saline
     (PBS). In an alternative embodiment, the wash solution lacks calcium and may lack
 15  magnesium or may lack many if not all divalent cations. Again, surprisingly, initial
     activation steps in the absence of calcium lead to magnified activation. As those of
     ordinary skill in the art would readily appreciate a washing step may be accomplished
     by methods known to those in the art, such as by using a standard centrifuge, a semi
     automated "flow-through" centrifuge (for example, the Cobe 2991 cell processor, the
20   Baxter CytoMate, or the Haemonetics Cell Saver 5) according to the manufacturer's
     instructions. After washing, the cells may be resuspended in a variety of
     biocompatible buffers, such as, for example, Ca2+-free, Mg 2 +-free PBS, PlasmaLyte
     A, 5% Dextrose in 0.45% Sodium Chloride, or other saline solution with or without
     any combination of buffers. Alternatively, the undesirable components of the
25   apheresis sample may be removed and the cells directly resuspended in culture media.
                     In another embodiment, T cells are isolated from peripheral blood
     lymphocytes by lysing the red blood cells and depleting the monocytes, for example,
     by centrifugation through a PERCOLLTM gradient or by counterflow centrifugal
     elutriation or a Miltenyi CliniMACS, or magnetic beads, or magnetic beads coupled
30   to antibodies. A specific subpopulation of T cells, such as CD3, CD28+, CD4+,
     CD8+, CD45RA+, CD45RO+' CD62L, CD127+ T cells, can be further isolated or
     depeleted by positive or negative selection techniques. For example, in one
     embodiment, T cells are isolated by incubation with anti-CD3/anti-CD28 (i.e., 3x28)
     conjugated beads, such as DYNABEADS@ M-450 CD3/CD28 T, for a time period
                                                       31

WO 2014/011996                                                                PCT/US2013/050287
     sufficient for positive selection of the desired T cells. In one embodiment, the time
     period is about 30 minutes. In a further embodiment, the time period ranges from 30
     minutes to 36 hours or longer and all integer values there between. In a further
     embodiment, the time period is at least 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 hours. In yet another
  5  preferred embodiment, the time period is 10 to 24 hours. In one preferred
     embodiment, the incubation time period is 24 hours. For isolation of T cells from
     patients with leukemia, use of longer incubation times, such as 24 hours, can increase
     cell yield. Longer incubation times may be used to isolate T cells in any situation
     where there are few T cells as compared to other cell types, such in isolating tumor
 10  infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) from tumor tissue or from immune-compromised
     individuals. Further, use of longer incubation times can increase the efficiency of
     capture of CD8+ T cells. Thus, by simply shortening or lengthening the time T cells
     are allowed to bind to the CD3/CD28 beads and/or by increasing or decreasing the
     ratio of beads to T cells (as described further herein), subpopulations of T cells can be
 15  preferentially selected for or against at culture initiation or at other time points during
     the process. Additionally, by increasing or decreasing the ratio of anti-CD3 and/or
     anti-CD28 antibodies on the beads or other surface, subpopulations of T cells can be
     preferentially selected for or against at culture initiation or at other desired time
     points. The skilled artisan would recognize that multiple rounds of selection can also
20   be used in the context of this invention. In certain embodiments, it may be desirable to
     perform the selection procedure and use the "unselected" cells in the activation and
     expansion process. "Unselected" cells can also be subjected to further rounds of
     selection.
                     Enrichment of a T cell population by negative selection can be
25   accomplished with a combination of antibodies directed to surface markers unique to
     the negatively selected cells. One method is cell sorting and/or selection via negative
     magnetic immunoadherence or flow cytometry that uses a cocktail of monoclonal
     antibodies directed to cell surface markers present on the cells negatively selected.
     For example, to enrich for CD4+ cells by negative selection, a monoclonal antibody
30   cocktail typically includes antibodies to CD14, CD20, CD llb, CD16, HLA-DR, and
     CD8. In certain embodiments, it may be desirable to enrich for or positively select for
     regulatory T cells which typically express CD4+, CD25+, CD62Lhi, GITR+, and
     FoxP3+. Alternatively, in certain embodiments, T regulatory cells are depleted by
     anti-CD25 conjugated beads or other similar method of selection.
                                                        32

WO 2014/011996                                                              PCT/US2013/050287
                      For isolation of a desired population of cells by positive or negative
     selection, the concentration of cells and surface (e.g., particles such as beads) can be
     varied. In certain embodiments, it may be desirable to significantly decrease the
     volume in which beads and cells are mixed together (i.e., increase the concentration of
  5  cells), to ensure maximum contact of cells and beads. For example, in one
     embodiment, a concentration of 2 billion cells/ml is used. In one embodiment, a
     concentration of 1 billion cells/ml is used. In a further embodiment, greater than 100
     million cells/ml is used. In a further embodiment, a concentration of cells of 10, 15,
     20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, or 50 million cells/ml is used. In yet another embodiment, a
 10  concentration of cells from 75, 80, 85, 90, 95, or 100 million cells/ml is used. In
     further embodiments, concentrations of 125 or 150 million cells/ml can be used.
     Using high concentrations can result in increased cell yield, cell activation, and cell
     expansion. Further, use of high cell concentrations allows more efficient capture of
     cells that may weakly express target antigens of interest, such as CD28-negative T
 15  cells, or from samples where there are many tumor cells present (i.e., leukemic blood,
     tumor tissue, etc.). Such populations of cells may have therapeutic value and would be
     desirable to obtain. For example, using high concentration of cells allows more
     efficient selection of CD8+ T cells that normally have weaker CD28 expression.
                      In a related embodiment, it may be desirable to use lower
20   concentrations of cells. By significantly diluting the mixture of T cells and surface
     (e.g., particles such as beads), interactions between the particles and cells is
     minimized. This selects for cells that express high amounts of desired antigens to be
     bound to the particles. For example, CD4+ T cells express higher levels of CD28 and
     are more efficiently captured than CD8+ T cells in dilute concentrations. In one
25   embodiment, the concentration of cells used is 5 X 106/ml. In other embodiments, the
     concentration used can be from about 1 X 10 5/ml to 1 X 106/ml, and any integer value
     in between.
                      In other embodiments, the cells may be incubated on a rotator for
     varying lengths of time at varying speeds at either 2-37 0 C.
30                    T cells for stimulation can also be frozen after a washing step. Wishing
     not to be bound by theory, the freeze and subsequent thaw step provides a more
     uniform product by removing granulocytes and to some extent monocytes in the cell
     population. After the washing step that removes plasma and platelets, the cells may be
     suspended in a freezing solution. While many freezing solutions and parameters are
                                                        33

WO 2014/011996                                                              PCT/US2013/050287
     known in the art and will be useful in this context, one method involves using PBS
     containing 20% DMSO and 8% human serum albumin, or culture media containing
      10% Dextran 40 and 5% Dextrose, 20% Human Serum Albumin and 7.5% DMSO, or
     31.25% Plasmalyte-A, 31.25% Dextrose 5%, 0.45% NaCl, 10% Dextran 40 and 5%
  5  Dextrose, 20% Human Serum Albumin, and 7.5% DMSO or other suitable cell
     freezing media containing for example, Hespan or pentastarch, and PlasmaLyte A, the
     cells then are frozen to -80'C at a rate of 1 per minute and stored in the vapor phase
     of a liquid nitrogen storage tank. Other methods of controlled freezing may be used as
     well as uncontrolled freezing immediately at -20'C or in liquid nitrogen.
 10                   In certain embodiments, cryopreserved cells are thawed and washed as
     described herein and allowed to rest for one hour at room temperature prior to
     activation using the methods of the present invention.
                      Also contemplated in the context of the invention is the collection of
     blood samples or apheresis product from a subject at a time period prior to when the
 15  expanded cells as described herein might be needed. As such, the source of the cells
     to be expanded can be collected at any time point necessary, and desired cells, such as
     T cells, isolated and frozen for later use in T cell therapy for any number of diseases
     or conditions that would benefit from T cell therapy, such as those described herein.
     In one embodiment a blood sample or an apheresis is taken from a generally healthy
20   subject. In certain embodiments, a blood sample or an apheresis is taken from a
     generally healthy subject who is at risk of developing a disease, but who has not yet
     developed a disease, and the cells of interest are isolated and frozen for later use. In
     certain embodiments, the T cells may be expanded, frozen, and used at a later time. In
     certain embodiments, samples are collected from a patient shortly after diagnosis of a
25   particular disease as described herein but prior to any treatments. In a further
     embodiment, the cells are isolated from a blood sample or an apheresis from a subject
     prior to any number of relevant treatment modalities, including but not limited to
     treatment with agents such as natalizumab, efalizumab, antiviral agents,
     chemotherapy, radiation, immunosuppressive agents, such as cyclosporin,
30   azathioprine, methotrexate, mycophenolate, and FK506, antibodies, or other
     immunoablative agents such as CAMPATH, anti-CD3 antibodies, cytoxan,
     fludarabine, cyclosporin, FK506, rapamycin, mycophenolic acid, steroids, FR901228,
     and irradiation. These drugs inhibit either the calcium dependent phosphatase
     calcineurin (cyclosporine and FK506) or inhibit the p70S6 kinase that is important for
                                                        34

WO 2014/011996                                                               PCT/US2013/050287
     growth factor induced signaling (rapamycin) (Liu et al., Cell 66:807-815, 1991;
     Henderson et al., Immun. 73:316-321, 1991; Bierer et al., Curr. Opin. Immun. 5:763
     773, 1993). In a further embodiment, the cells are isolated for a patient and frozen for
     later use in conjunction with (e.g., before, simultaneously or following) bone marrow
  5  or stem cell transplantation, T cell ablative therapy using either chemotherapy agents
     such as, fludarabine, external-beam radiation therapy (XRT), cyclophosphamide, or
     antibodies such as OKT3 or CAMPATH. In another embodiment, the cells are
     isolated prior to and can be frozen for later use for treatment following B-cell ablative
     therapy such as agents that react with CD20, e.g., Rituxan.
 10                   In a further embodiment of the present invention, T cells are obtained
     from a patient directly following treatment. In this regard, it has been observed that
     following certain cancer treatments, in particular treatments with drugs that damage
     the immune system, shortly after treatment during the period when patients would
     normally be recovering from the treatment, the quality of T cells obtained may be
 15  optimal or improved for their ability to expand ex vivo. Likewise, following ex vivo
     manipulation using the methods described herein, these cells may be in a preferred
     state for enhanced engraftment and in vivo expansion. Thus, it is contemplated within
     the context of the present invention to collect blood cells, including T cells, dendritic
     cells, or other cells of the hematopoietic lineage, during this recovery phase. Further,
20   in certain embodiments, mobilization (for example, mobilization with GM-CSF) and
     conditioning regimens can be used to create a condition in a subject wherein
     repopulation, recirculation, regeneration, and/or expansion of particular cell types is
     favored, especially during a defined window of time following therapy. Illustrative
     cell types include T cells, B cells, dendritic cells, and other cells of the immune
25   system.
     Activation and Expansion of T Cells
                      Whether prior to or after genetic modification of the T cells to express
     a desirable CAR, the T cells can be activated and expanded generally using methods
30   as described, for example, in U.S. Patents 6,352,694; 6,534,055; 6,905,680;
     6,692,964; 5,858,358; 6,887,466; 6,905,681; 7,144,575; 7,067,318; 7,172,869;
     7,232,566; 7,175,843; 5,883,223; 6,905,874; 6,797,514; 6,867,041; and U.S. Patent
     Application Publication No. 20060121005.
                                                        35

WO 2014/011996                                                              PCT/US2013/050287
                      Generally, the T cells of the invention are expanded by contact with a
     surface having attached thereto an agent that stimulates a CD3/TCR complex
     associated signal and a ligand that stimulates a co-stimulatory molecule on the surface
     of the T cells. In particular, T cell populations may be stimulated as described herein,
  5  such as by contact with an anti-CD3 antibody, or antigen-binding fragment thereof, or
     an anti-CD2 antibody immobilized on a surface, or by contact with a protein kinase C
     activator (e.g., bryostatin) in conjunction with a calcium ionophore. For co
     stimulation of an accessory molecule on the surface of the T cells, a ligand that binds
     the accessory molecule is used. For example, a population of T cells can be contacted
 10  with an anti-CD3 antibody and an anti-CD28 antibody, under conditions appropriate
     for stimulating proliferation of the T cells. To stimulate proliferation of either CD4+ T
     cells or CD8+ T cells, an anti-CD3 antibody and an anti-CD28 antibody. Examples of
     an anti-CD28 antibody include 9.3, B-T3, XR-CD28 (Diaclone, Besangon, France)
     can be used as can other methods commonly known in the art (Berg et al., Transplant
 15  Proc. 30(8):3975-3977, 1998; Haanen et al., J. Exp. Med. 190(9):13191328, 1999;
     Garland et al., J. Immunol Meth. 227(1-2):53-63, 1999).
                      In certain embodiments, the primary stimulatory signal and the co
     stimulatory signal for the T cell may be provided by different protocols. For example,
     the agents providing each signal may be in solution or coupled to a surface. When
20   coupled to a surface, the agents may be coupled to the same surface (i.e., in "cis"
     formation) or to separate surfaces (i.e., in "trans" formation). Alternatively, one agent
     may be coupled to a surface and the other agent in solution. In one embodiment, the
     agent providing the co-stimulatory signal is bound to a cell surface and the agent
     providing the primary activation signal is in solution or coupled to a surface. In
25   certain embodiments, both agents can be in solution. In another embodiment, the
     agents may be in soluble form, and then cross-linked to a surface, such as a cell
     expressing Fc receptors or an antibody or other binding agent which will bind to the
     agents. In this regard, see for example, U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos.
     20040101519 and 20060034810 for artificial antigen presenting cells (aAPCs) that are
30   contemplated for use in activating and expanding T cells in the present invention.
                      In one embodiment, the two agents are immobilized on beads, either
     on the same bead, i.e., "cis," or to separate beads, i.e., "trans." By way of example,
     the agent providing the primary activation signal is an anti-CD3 antibody or an
     antigen-binding fragment thereof and the agent providing the co-stimulatory signal is
                                                        36

WO 2014/011996                                                                  PCT/US2013/050287
     an anti-CD28 antibody or antigen-binding fragment thereof; and both agents are co
     immobilized to the same bead in equivalent molecular amounts. In one embodiment, a
      1:1 ratio of each antibody bound to the beads for CD4+ T cell expansion and T cell
     growth is used. In certain aspects of the present invention, a ratio of anti CD3:CD28
  5  antibodies bound to the beads is used such that an increase in T cell expansion is
     observed as compared to the expansion observed using a ratio of 1:1. In one particular
     embodiment an increase of from about 1 to about 3 fold is observed as compared to
     the expansion observed using a ratio of 1:1. In one embodiment, the ratio of
     CD3:CD28 antibody bound to the beads ranges from 100:1 to 1:100 and all integer
 10  values there between. In one aspect of the present invention, more anti-CD28
     antibody is bound to the particles than anti-CD3 antibody, i.e., the ratio of CD3:CD28
     is less than one. In certain embodiments of the invention, the ratio of anti CD28
     antibody to anti CD3 antibody bound to the beads is greater than 2:1. In one particular
     embodiment, a 1:100 CD3:CD28 ratio of antibody bound to beads is used. In another
 15  embodiment, a 1:75 CD3:CD28 ratio of antibody bound to beads is used. In a further
     embodiment, a 1:50 CD3:CD28 ratio of antibody bound to beads is used. In another
     embodiment, a 1:30 CD3:CD28 ratio of antibody bound to beads is used. In one
     preferred embodiment, a 1:10 CD3: CD2 8 ratio of antibody bound to beads is used. In
     another embodiment, a 1:3 CD3:CD28 ratio of antibody bound to the beads is used. In
20   yet another embodiment, a 3:1 CD3:CD28 ratio of antibody bound to the beads is
     used.
                      Ratios of particles to cells from 1:500 to 500:1 and any integer values
     in between may be used to stimulate T cells or other target cells. As those of ordinary
     skill in the art can readily appreciate, the ratio of particles to cells may depend on
25   particle size relative to the target cell. For example, small sized beads could only bind
     a few cells, while larger beads could bind many. In certain embodiments the ratio of
     cells to particles ranges from 1:100 to 100:1 and any integer values in-between and in
     further embodiments the ratio comprises 1:9 to 9:1 and any integer values in between,
     can also be used to stimulate T cells. The ratio of anti-CD3- and anti-CD28-coupled
30   particles to T cells that result in T cell stimulation can vary as noted above, however
     certain preferred values include 1:100, 1:50, 1:40, 1:30, 1:20, 1:10, 1:9, 1:8, 1:7, 1:6,
      1:5, 1:4, 1:3, 1:2, 1:1, 2:1, 3:1, 4:1, 5:1, 6:1, 7:1, 8:1, 9:1, 10:1, and 15:1 with one
     preferred ratio being at least 1:1 particles per T cell. In one embodiment, a ratio of
     particles to cells of 1:1 or less is used. In one particular embodiment, a preferred
                                                           37

WO 2014/011996                                                               PCT/US2013/050287
     particle: cell ratio is 1:5. In further embodiments, the ratio of particles to cells can be
     varied depending on the day of stimulation. For example, in one embodiment, the
     ratio of particles to cells is from 1:1 to 10:1 on the first day and additional particles
     are added to the cells every day or every other day thereafter for up to 10 days, at final
  5  ratios of from 1:1 to 1:10 (based on cell counts on the day of addition). In one
     particular embodiment, the ratio of particles to cells is 1:1 on the first day of
     stimulation and adjusted to 1:5 on the third and fifth days of stimulation. In another
     embodiment, particles are added on a daily or every other day basis to a final ratio of
      1:1 on the first day, and 1:5 on the third and fifth days of stimulation. In another
 10  embodiment, the ratio of particles to cells is 2:1 on the first day of stimulation and
     adjusted to 1:10 on the third and fifth days of stimulation. In another embodiment,
     particles are added on a daily or every other day basis to a final ratio of 1:1 on the first
     day, and 1:10 on the third and fifth days of stimulation. One of skill in the art will
     appreciate that a variety of other ratios may be suitable for use in the present
 15  invention. In particular, ratios will vary depending on particle size and on cell size and
     type.
                      In further embodiments of the present invention, the cells, such as T
     cells, are combined with agent-coated beads, the beads and the cells are subsequently
     separated, and then the cells are cultured. In an alternative embodiment, prior to
20   culture, the agent-coated beads and cells are not separated but are cultured together. In
     a further embodiment, the beads and cells are first concentrated by application of a
     force, such as a magnetic force, resulting in increased ligation of cell surface markers,
     thereby inducing cell stimulation.
                      By way of example, cell surface proteins may be ligated by allowing
25   paramagnetic beads to which anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 are attached (3x28 beads) to
     contact the T cells. In one embodiment the cells (for example, 104 to 109 T cells) and
     beads (for example, DYNABEADS@ M-450 CD3/CD28 T paramagnetic beads at a
     ratio of 1:1) are combined in a buffer, preferably PBS (without divalent cations such
     as, calcium and magnesium). Again, those of ordinary skill in the art can readily
30   appreciate any cell concentration may be used. For example, the target cell may be
     very rare in the sample and comprise only 0.01% of the sample or the entire sample
     (i.e., 100%) may comprise the target cell of interest. Accordingly, any cell number is
     within the context of the present invention. In certain embodiments, it may be
     desirable to significantly decrease the volume in which particles and cells are mixed
                                                         38

WO 2014/011996                                                              PCT/US2013/050287
     together (i.e., increase the concentration of cells), to ensure maximum contact of cells
     and particles. For example, in one embodiment, a concentration of about 2 billion
     cells/ml is used. In another embodiment, greater than 100 million cells/ml is used. In a
     further embodiment, a concentration of cells of 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, or 50
  5  million cells/ml is used. In yet another embodiment, a concentration of cells from 75,
     80, 85, 90, 95, or 100 million cells/ml is used. In further embodiments, concentrations
     of 125 or 150 million cells/ml can be used. Using high concentrations can result in
     increased cell yield, cell activation, and cell expansion. Further, use of high cell
     concentrations allows more efficient capture of cells that may weakly express target
 10  antigens of interest, such as CD28-negative T cells. Such populations of cells may
     have therapeutic value and would be desirable to obtain in certain embodiments. For
     example, using high concentration of cells allows more efficient selection of CD8+ T
     cells that normally have weaker CD28 expression.
                      In one embodiment of the present invention, the mixture may be
 15  cultured for several hours (about 3 hours) to about 14 days or any hourly integer value
     in between. In another embodiment, the mixture may be cultured for 21 days. In one
     embodiment of the invention the beads and the T cells are cultured together for about
     eight days. In another embodiment, the beads and T cells are cultured together for 2-3
     days. Several cycles of stimulation may also be desired such that culture time of T
20   cells can be 60 days or more. Conditions appropriate for T cell culture include an
     appropriate media (e.g., Minimal Essential Media or RPMI Media 1640 or, X-vivo
      15, (Lonza)) that may contain factors necessary for proliferation and viability,
     including serum (e.g., fetal bovine or human serum), interleukin-2 (IL-2), insulin,
     IFN-7, IL-4, IL-7, GM-CSF, IL-10, IL-12, IL-15, TGFp, and TNF-ax or any other
25   additives for the growth of cells known to the skilled artisan. Other additives for the
     growth of cells include, but are not limited to, surfactant, plasmanate, and reducing
     agents such as N-acetyl-cysteine and 2-mercaptoethanol. Media can include RPMI
      1640, AIM-V, DMEM, MEM, a-MEM, F-12, X-Vivo 15, and X-Vivo 20, Optimizer,
     with added amino acids, sodium pyruvate, and vitamins, either serum-free or
30   supplemented with an appropriate amount of serum (or plasma) or a defined set of
     hormones, and/or an amount of cytokine(s) sufficient for the growth and expansion of
     T cells. Antibiotics, e.g., penicillin and streptomycin, are included only in
     experimental cultures, not in cultures of cells that are to be infused into a subject. The
                                                        39

WO 2014/011996                                                              PCT/US2013/050287
     target cells are maintained under conditions necessary to support growth, for example,
     an appropriate temperature (e.g., 37C) and atmosphere (e.g., air plus 5% C0 2 ).
                      T cells that have been exposed to varied stimulation times may exhibit
     different characteristics. For example, typical blood or apheresed peripheral blood
  5  mononuclear cell products have a helper T cell population (TH, CD4) that is greater
     than the cytotoxic or suppressor T cell population (Tc, CD8+). Ex vivo expansion of T
     cells by stimulating CD3 and CD28 receptors produces a population of T cells that
     prior to about days 8-9 consists predominately of TH cells, while after about days 8-9,
     the population of T cells comprises an increasingly greater population of Tc cells.
 10  Accordingly, depending on the purpose of treatment, infusing a subject with a T cell
     population comprising predominately of TH cells may be advantageous. Similarly, if
     an antigen-specific subset of Tc cells has been isolated it may be beneficial to expand
     this subset to a greater degree.
                      Further, in addition to CD4 and CD8 markers, other phenotypic
 15  markers vary significantly, but in large part, reproducibly during the course of the cell
     expansion process. Thus, such reproducibility enables the ability to tailor an activated
     T cell product for specific purposes.
     Therapeutic Application
20                    The present invention encompasses a cell (e.g., T cell) transduced with
     a vector (e.g., lentiviral vector (LV)). For example, the LV encodes a CAR that
     combines an antigen recognition domain of a specific antibody with an intracellular
     domain of CD3-zeta, CD28, 4-1BB, or any combinations thereof. Therefore, in some
     instances, the transduced T cell can elicit a CAR-mediated T-cell response.
25                    The invention provides the use of a CAR to redirect the specificity of a
     primary T cell to a tumor antigen. Thus, the present invention also provides a method
     for stimulating a T cell-mediated immune response to a target cell population or tissue
     in a mammal comprising the step of administering to the mammal a T cell that
     expresses a CAR, wherein the CAR comprises a binding moiety that specifically
30   interacts with a predetermined target, a zeta chain portion comprising for example the
     intracellular domain of human CD3zeta, and a costimulatory signaling region.
                      In one embodiment, the present invention includes a type of cellular
     therapy where T cells are genetically modified to express a CAR and the CAR T cell
     is infused to a recipient in need thereof. The infused cell is able to kill tumor cells in
                                                       40

WO 2014/011996                                                            PCT/US2013/050287
     the recipient. Unlike antibody therapies, CAR T cells are able to replicate in vivo
     resulting in long-term persistence that can lead to sustained tumor control.
                     In one embodiment, the CAR T cells of the invention can undergo
     robust in vivo T cell expansion and can persist for an extended amount of time. In
  5  another embodiment, the CAR T cells of the invention evolve into specific memory T
     cells that can be reactivated to inhibit any additional tumor formation or growth. For
     example, it was unexpected that the CART 19 cells of the invention can undergo
     robust in vivo T cell expansion and persist at high levels for an extended amount of
     time in blood and bone marrow and form specific memory T cells. Without wishing to
 10  be bound by any particular theory, CAR T cells may differentiate in vivo into a
     central memory-like state upon encounter and subsequent elimination of target cells
     expressing the surrogate antigen.
                     Without wishing to be bound by any particular theory, the anti-tumor
     immunity response elicited by the CAR-modified T cells may be an active or a
 15  passive immune response. In addition, the CAR mediated immune response may be
     part of an adoptive immunotherapy approach in which CAR-modified T cells induce
     an immune response specific to the antigen binding moiety in the CAR. For example,
     a CART 19 cells elicits an immune response specific against cells expressing CD19.
                     While the data disclosed herein specifically disclose lentiviral vector
20   comprising anti-CD19 scFv derived from FMC63 murine monoclonal antibody,
     human CD8a hinge and transmembrane domain, and human 4-1BB and CD3zeta
     signaling domains, the invention should be construed to include any number of
     variations for each of the components of the construct as described elsewhere herein.
     That is, the invention includes the use of any antigen binding moiety in the CAR to
25   generate a CAR-mediated T-cell response specific to the antigen binding moiety. For
     example, the antigen binding moiety in the CAR of the invention can target a tumor
     antigen for the purposes of treat cancer.
                     Cancers that may be treated include tumors that are not vascularized,
     or not yet substantially vascularized, as well as vascularized tumors. The cancers may
30   comprise non-solid tumors (such as hematological tumors, for example, leukemias
     and lymphomas) or may comprise solid tumors. Types of cancers to be treated with
     the CARs of the invention include, but are not limited to, carcinoma, blastoma, and
     sarcoma, and certain leukemia or lymphoid malignancies, benign and malignant
                                                       41

WO 2014/011996                                                            PCT/US2013/050287
     tumors, and malignancies e.g., sarcomas, carcinomas, and melanomas. Adult
     tumors/cancers and pediatric tumors/cancers are also included.
                     Hematologic cancers are cancers of the blood or bone marrow.
     Examples of hematological (or hematogenous) cancers include leukemias, including
  5  acute leukemias (such as acute lymphocytic leukemia, acute myelocytic leukemia,
     acute myelogenous leukemia and myeloblastic, promyelocytic, myelomonocytic,
     monocytic and erythroleukemia), chronic leukemias (such as chronic myelocytic
     (granulocytic) leukemia, chronic myelogenous leukemia, and chronic lymphocytic
     leukemia), polycythemia vera, lymphoma, Hodgkin's disease, non-Hodgkin's
 10  lymphoma (indolent and high grade forms), multiple myeloma, Waldenstrom's
     macroglobulinemia, heavy chain disease, myelodysplastic syndrome, hairy cell
     leukemia and myelodysplasia.
                     Solid tumors are abnormal masses of tissue that usually do not contain
     cysts or liquid areas. Solid tumors can be benign or malignant. Different types of solid
 15  tumors are named for the type of cells that form them (such as sarcomas, carcinomas,
     and lymphomas). Examples of solid tumors, such as sarcomas and carcinomas,
     include fibrosarcoma, myxosarcoma, liposarcoma, chondrosarcoma, osteosarcoma,
     and other sarcomas, synovioma, mesothelioma, Ewing's tumor, leiomyosarcoma,
     rhabdomyosarcoma, colon carcinoma, lymphoid malignancy, pancreatic cancer,
20   breast cancer, lung cancers, ovarian cancer, prostate cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma,
     squamous cell carcinoma, basal cell carcinoma, adenocarcinoma, sweat gland
     carcinoma, medullary thyroid carcinoma, papillary thyroid carcinoma,
     pheochromocytomas sebaceous gland carcinoma, papillary carcinoma, papillary
     adenocarcinomas, medullary carcinoma, bronchogenic carcinoma, renal cell
25   carcinoma, hepatoma, bile duct carcinoma, choriocarcinoma, Wilms' tumor, cervical
     cancer, testicular tumor, seminoma, bladder carcinoma, melanoma, and CNS tumors
     (such as a glioma (such as brainstem glioma and mixed gliomas), glioblastoma (also
     known as glioblastoma multiforme) astrocytoma, CNS lymphoma, germinoma,
     medulloblastoma, Schwannoma craniopharyogioma, ependymoma, pinealoma,
30   hemangioblastoma, acoustic neuroma, oligodendroglioma, menangioma,
     neuroblastoma, retinoblastoma and brain metastases).
                     In one embodiment, the antigen bind moiety portion of the CAR of the
     invention is designed to treat a particular cancer. For example, the CAR designed to
     target CD19 can be used to treat cancers and disorders including but are not limited to
                                                       42

WO 2014/011996                                                             PCT/US2013/050287
     pre-B ALL (pediatric indication), adult ALL, mantle cell lymphoma, diffuse large B
     cell lymphoma, salvage post allogenic bone marrow transplantation, and the like.
                      In another embodiment, the CAR can be designed to target CD22 to
     treat diffuse large B-cell lymphoma.
  5                   In one embodiment, cancers and disorders include but are not limited
     to pre-B ALL (pediatric indication), adult ALL, mantle cell lymphoma, diffuse large
     B-cell lymphoma, salvage post allogenic bone marrow transplantation, and the like
     can be treated using a combination of CARs that target CD 19, CD20, CD22, and
     RORI.
 10                   In one embodiment, the CAR can be designed to target mesothelin to
     treat mesothelioma, pancreatic cancer, ovarian cancer, and the like.
                      In one embodiment, the CAR can be designed to target CD33/IL3Ra to
     treat acute myelogenous leukemia and the like.
                      In one embodiment, the CAR can be designed to target c-Met to treat
 15  triple negative breast cancer, non-small cell lung cancer, and the like.
                      In one embodiment, the CAR can be designed to target PSMA to treat
     prostate cancer and the like.
                      In one embodiment, the CAR can be designed to target Glycolipid F77
     to treat prostate cancer and the like.
20                    In one embodiment, the CAR can be designed to target EGFRvIII to
     treat gliobastoma and the like.
                      In one embodiment, the CAR can be designed to target GD-2 to treat
     neuroblastoma, melanoma, and the like.
                      In one embodiment, the CAR can be designed to target NY-ESO- 1
25   TCR to treat myeloma, sarcoma, melanoma, and the like.
                      In one embodiment, the CAR can be designed to target MAGE A3
     TCR to treat myeloma, sarcoma, melanoma, and the like.
                      However, the invention should not be construed to be limited to solely
     to the antigen targets and diseases disclosed herein. Rather, the invention should be
30   construed to include any antigenic target that is associated with a disease where a
     CAR can be used to treat the disease.
                      The CAR-modified T cells of the invention may also serve as a type of
     vaccine for ex vivo immunization and/or in vivo therapy in a mammal. Preferably, the
     mammal is a human.
                                                       43

WO 2014/011996                                                             PCT/US2013/050287
                      With respect to ex vivo immunization, at least one of the following
     occurs in vitro prior to administering the cell into a mammal: i) expansion of the cells,
     ii) introducing a nucleic acid encoding a CAR to the cells, and/or iii) cryopreservation
     of the cells.
  5                   Ex vivo procedures are well known in the art and are discussed more
     fully below. Briefly, cells are isolated from a mammal (preferably a human) and
     genetically modified (i.e., transduced or transfected in vitro) with a vector expressing
     a CAR disclosed herein. The CAR-modified cell can be administered to a mammalian
     recipient to provide a therapeutic benefit. The mammalian recipient may be a human
 10  and the CAR-modified cell can be autologous with respect to the recipient.
     Alternatively, the cells can be allogeneic, syngeneic or xenogeneic with respect to the
     recipient.
                      The procedure for ex vivo expansion of hematopoietic stem and
     progenitor cells is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5,199,942, incorporated herein by
 15  reference, can be applied to the cells of the present invention. Other suitable methods
     are known in the art, therefore the present invention is not limited to any particular
     method of ex vivo expansion of the cells. Briefly, ex vivo culture and expansion of T
     cells comprises: (1) collecting CD34+ hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells from a
     mammal from peripheral blood harvest or bone marrow explants; and (2) expanding
20   such cells ex vivo. In addition to the cellular growth factors described in U.S. Pat. No.
     5,199,942, other factors such as flt3-L, IL-1, IL-3 and c-kit ligand, can be used for
     culturing and expansion of the cells.
                      In addition to using a cell-based vaccine in terms of ex vivo
     immunization, the present invention also provides compositions and methods for in
25   vivo immunization to elicit an immune response directed against an antigen in a
     patient.
                      Generally, the cells activated and expanded as described herein may be
     utilized in the treatment and prevention of diseases that arise in individuals who are
     immunocompromised. In particular, the CAR-modified T cells of the invention are
30   used in the treatment of CLL. In certain embodiments, the cells of the invention are
     used in the treatment of patients at risk for developing CLL. Thus, the present
     invention provides methods for the treatment or prevention of CLL comprising
     administering to a subject in need thereof, a therapeutically effective amount of the
     CAR-modified T cells of the invention.
                                                        44

WO 2014/011996                                                             PCT/US2013/050287
                     The CAR-modified T cells of the present invention may be
     administered either alone, or as a pharmaceutical composition in combination with
     diluents and/or with other components such as IL-2 or other cytokines or cell
     populations. Briefly, pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention may
  5  comprise a target cell population as described herein, in combination with one or
     more pharmaceutically or physiologically acceptable carriers, diluents or excipients.
     Such compositions may comprise buffers such as neutral buffered saline, phosphate
     buffered saline and the like; carbohydrates such as glucose, mannose, sucrose or
     dextrans, mannitol; proteins; polypeptides or amino acids such as glycine;
 10  antioxidants; chelating agents such as EDTA or glutathione; adjuvants (e.g.,
     aluminum hydroxide); and preservatives. Compositions of the present invention are
     preferably formulated for intravenous administration.
                     Pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention may be
     administered in a manner appropriate to the disease to be treated (or prevented). The
 15  quantity and frequency of administration will be determined by such factors as the
     condition of the patient, and the type and severity of the patient's disease, although
     appropriate dosages may be determined by clinical trials.
                     When "an immunologically effective amount," "an anti-tumor
     effective amount," "an tumor-inhibiting effective amount," or "therapeutic amount" is
20   indicated, the precise amount of the compositions of the present invention to be
     administered can be determined by a physician with consideration of individual
     differences in age, weight, tumor size, extent of infection or metastasis, and condition
     of the patient (subject). It can generally be stated that a pharmaceutical composition
     comprising the T cells described herein may be administered at a dosage of 104 to 109
25   cells/kg body weight, preferably 105 to 106 cells/kg body weight, including all integer
     values within those ranges. T cell compositions may also be administered multiple
     times at these dosages. The cells can be administered by using infusion techniques
     that are commonly known in immunotherapy (see, e.g., Rosenberg et al., New Eng. J.
     of Med. 319:1676, 1988). The optimal dosage and treatment regime for a particular
30   patient can readily be determined by one skilled in the art of medicine by monitoring
     the patient for signs of disease and adjusting the treatment accordingly.
                     In certain embodiments, it may be desired to administer activated T
     cells to a subject and then subsequently redraw blood (or have an apheresis
     performed), activate T cells therefrom according to the present invention, and reinfuse
                                                        45

WO 2014/011996                                                             PCT/US2013/050287
     the patient with these activated and expanded T cells. This process can be carried out
     multiple times every few weeks. In certain embodiments, T cells can be activated
     from blood draws of from 10cc to 400cc. In certain embodiments, T cells are
     activated from blood draws of 20cc, 30cc, 40cc, 50cc, 60cc, 70cc, 80cc, 90cc, or
  5   100cc. Not to be bound by theory, using this multiple blood draw/multiple reinfusion
     protocol may serve to select out certain populations of T cells.
                      The administration of the subject compositions may be carried out in
     any convenient manner, including by aerosol inhalation, injection, ingestion,
     transfusion, implantation or transplantation. The compositions described herein may
 10  be administered to a patient subcutaneously, intradermally, intratumorally,
     intranodally, intramedullary, intramuscularly, by intravenous (i.v.) injection, or
     intraperitoneally. In one embodiment, the T cell compositions of the present invention
     are administered to a patient by intradermal or subcutaneous injection. In another
     embodiment, the T cell compositions of the present invention are preferably
 15  administered by i.v., or i.p., injection. The compositions of T cells may be injected
     directly into a tumor, lymph node, or site of infection.
                      In certain embodiments of the present invention, cells activated and
     expanded using the methods described herein, or other methods known in the art
     where T cells are expanded to therapeutic levels, are administered to a patient in
20   conjunction with (e.g., before, simultaneously or following) any number of relevant
     treatment modalities, including but not limited to treatment with agents such as
     antiviral therapy, cidofovir and interleukin-2, Cytarabine (also known as ARA-C) or
     natalizumab treatment for MS patients or efalizumab treatment for psoriasis patients
     or other treatments for PML patients. In further embodiments, the T cells of the
25   invention may be used in combination with chemotherapy, radiation,
     immunosuppressive agents, such as cyclosporin, azathioprine, methotrexate,
     mycophenolate, and FK506, antibodies, or other immunoablative agents such as CAM
     PATH, anti-CD3 antibodies or other antibody therapies, cytoxin, fludaribine,
     cyclosporin, FK506, rapamycin, mycophenolic acid, steroids, FR901228, cytokines,
30   and irradiation. These drugs inhibit either the calcium dependent phosphatase
     calcineurin (cyclosporine and FK506) or inhibit the p70S6 kinase that is important for
     growth factor induced signaling (rapamycin) (Liu et al., Cell 66:807-815, 1991;
     Henderson et al., Immun. 73:316-321, 1991; Bierer et al., Curr. Opin. Immun. 5:763
     773, 1993). In a further embodiment, the cell compositions of the present invention
                                                       46

WO 2014/011996                                                             PCT/US2013/050287
     are administered to a patient in conjunction with (e.g., before, simultaneously or
     following) bone marrow transplantation, T cell ablative therapy using either
     chemotherapy agents such as, fludarabine, external-beam radiation therapy (XRT),
     cyclophosphamide, or antibodies such as OKT3 or CAMPATH. In another
  5  embodiment, the cell compositions of the present invention are administered
     following B-cell ablative therapy such as agents that react with CD20, e.g., Rituxan.
     For example, in one embodiment, subjects may undergo standard treatment with high
     dose chemotherapy followed by peripheral blood stem cell transplantation. In certain
     embodiments, following the transplant, subjects receive an infusion of the expanded
 10  immune cells of the present invention. In an additional embodiment, expanded cells
     are administered before or following surgery.
                     The dosage of the above treatments to be administered to a patient will
     vary with the precise nature of the condition being treated and the recipient of the
     treatment. The scaling of dosages for human administration can be performed
 15  according to art-accepted practices. The dose for CAMPATH, for example, will
     generally be in the range I to about 100 mg for an adult patient, usually administered
     daily for a period between 1 and 30 days. The preferred daily dose is 1 to 10 mg per
     day although in some instances larger doses of up to 40 mg per day may be used
     (described in U.S. Patent No. 6,120,766).
20
                                 EXPERIMENTAL EXAMPLES
                     The invention is further described in detail by reference to the
     following experimental examples. These examples are provided for purposes of
     illustration only, and are not intended to be limiting unless otherwise specified. Thus,
25   the invention should in no way be construed as being limited to the following
     examples, but rather, should be construed to encompass any and all variations which
     become evident as a result of the teaching provided herein.
                     Without further description, it is believed that one of ordinary skill in
     the art can, using the preceding description and the following illustrative examples,
30   make and utilize the compounds of the present invention and practice the claimed
     methods. The following working examples therefore, specifically point out the
     preferred embodiments of the present invention, and are not to be construed as
     limiting in any way the remainder of the disclosure.
                                                       47

WO 2014/011996                                                             PCT/US2013/050287
     Example 1: Analysis for contaminants
                      Lymphocytes transduced to express chimeric antigen receptors (CARs)
     destined for administration into a human subject are analyzed to detect and quantify
     possible contaminants introduced during the process of transduction.
  5
                      General laboratory statement
                      Research sample processing, freezing, and laboratory analyses were
     performed under principles of Good Manufacturing Practices or Good Laboratory
     Practices with established SOP and/or protocols for sample receipt, processing,
 10  freezing, and analysis.
                      Vector Production
                      The CD19-BB-z transgene (GeMCRIS 0607-793) was designed and
     constructed as described (Milone et al., 2009, Mol Ther. 17:1453-1464). Lentiviral
 15  vector was produced according to current good manufacturing practices using a three
     plasmid production approach at Lentigen Corporation as described (Zufferey et al.,
      1997, Nature Biotechnol 15:871-875). A self-inactivating lentiviral vector (GeMCRIS
     0607-793) was designed, which was subjected to preclinical safety testing, as reported
     previously (Milone et al., 2009, Mol Ther, 17: 1453-64). Methods of T-cell
20   preparation have also been described previously (Porter et al, 2006, Blood, 107:1325
     31).
                      Preparation of CART-19 T cells
                      Autologous T cells are engineered to express an extracellular single
     chain antibody (scFv) with specificity for CD 19. The extracellular scFv can redirect
25   specificity of the transduced T cells for cells that express CD 19, a molecule that is
     restricted in expression on the surface of the malignant cells and on normal B cells. In
     addition to CD19 scFv, the cells are transduced to express an intracellular signaling
     molecule comprised of either the TCR( chain or a tandem signaling domain
     comprised of 4-1BB and TCR( signaling modules. The scFv is derived from a mouse
30   monoclonal antibody, and thus contains mouse sequences, and the signaling domains
     are entirely of the native human sequences. CART-19 T cells are manufactured by
     isolating the T cells by apheresis, and using lentiviral vector technology (Dropulic et
     al., 2006, Human Gene Therapy, 17: 577-88; Naldini et al., 1996, Science, 272: 263
                                                        48

WO 2014/011996                                                            PCT/US2013/050287
     7; Dull et al., 1998, J Virol, 72: 8463-7 1) to introduce the scFv:TCR(:4-1BB into
     CD4 and CD8 T cells. In some patients, a control scFv:TCR(: is introduced into a
     portion of the cells for a competitive repopulation experiment. These receptors are
     "universal" in that they bind antigen in an MHC-independent fashion, thus, one
  5  receptor construct can be used to treat a population of patients with CD19 antigen
     positive tumors.
                      The CAR constructs were developed at the University of Pennsylvania,
     and the clinical grade vector was manufactured at Lentigen Corporation. The CART
      19 cells are manufactured in the Clinical Cell and Vaccine Production Facility at the
 10  University of Pennsylvania according to the process shown in Figure 2. At the end of
     cell cultures, the cells are cryopreserved in infusible cryomedia.
                      T cell viability
                      T cell viability following transduction was determined using a Trypan
 15  blue exclusion assay (using 0.4% Trypan Blue Stain (Gibco BRL Cat. No. 15250-061
     plus media or diluent and Bright-Line Hemacytometer (Hausser Scientific Company))
     or 7-AAD to determine the percentage of living cells (using BD ViaProbe (Cat. No.
     555815, BD Biosciences Pharmingen) and flow cytometer.
20                    T cell character
                      The percentage of transduced cells expressing or not expressing
     particular T cell markers described elsewhere herein was determined using cell
     staining and flow cytometry.
25                    Transduction efficiency
                      The transduction efficiency of T cells was determined using flow
     cytometry, quantitative PCR or both flow cytometry and quantitative PCR.
                      Presence and quantity of endotoxin
30                    The presence of endotoxin in transduced T cell cultures was assessed
     using a gel clot assay.
                      3.1.1   Endosafe PTS-Kinetic reader
                      Charles River Laboratories,
                      3.1.2   PTS Logger software
                                                        49

WO 2014/011996                                                          PCT/US2013/050287
                    3.1.3   Disposable Inhibition/Enhancement Cartridge
                    Charles River /Cat# PTS220
                    3.1.4   Disposable LAL cartridge Test Cartridges (0.01-1.0/mL) & C
     of A for each lot
  5                 Charles River /Cat# PTS2001F
                    3.1.5   Disposable LAL cartridge Test Cartridges (0.005-0.5EU/mL) &
     C of A for each lot
                    Charles River /Cat# PTS20005F
                    Chromogenic Endpoint assay - read on spectrophotometer
 10                 3.1.6   Stop Reagent: 20% w/v Acetic Acid, Glacial
                    Cat # BP2401-212, Fisher Scientific, Pittsburgh, PA
                    Tel: 1-800-766-7000
                    3.1.7   Limulus Amebocyte Lysate Test Kit
                    Cat.# 50-648U (300 test) or 50-647U (120 test), Cambrex
 15                  8830 Biggs Ford Road, Walkersville, MD 21793
                    Tel: 800-654-4452, ext. 7822, Fax: 301-845-2924
                    3.1.7.1 E. coli Endotoxin
                    3.1.7.2 Chromogenic Substrate
                    3.1.7.3 Chromogenic Limulus Amebocyte Lysate (LAL)
20                  3.1.7.4 LAL Reagent Water (120 test kit only)
                    3.1.8   LAL Reagent Water
                    Cat # W50-640, Cambrex, 8830 Biggs Ford Road, Walkersville, MD
     21793
                    Tel: 800-654-4452, Fax: 301-845-2924
25                  Chromogenic Kinetic assay - read on spectrophotometer
                    3.1.9   Stop Reagent: 20% w/v Acetic Acid, Glacial
                    Cat # BP2401-212, Fisher Scientific
                    3.1.10 Limulus Amebocyte Lysate (LAL) Kinetic-QCL Endotoxin
     Assay Kit
30                  Cat.# 50-650U (192 tests), Lonza / Cambrex
                    3.1.10.1 E. coli Endotoxin
                    3.1.10.2 Kinetic-QCL Reagent (a mixture of LAL/Chromogenic
     Substrate)
                    LAL Reagent Water
                                                    50

WO 2014/011996                                                             PCT/US2013/050287
                     Gel Clot assay
                     4.1.1   Multi-test Limulus Amebocyte Lysate, PYROGENT@ Plus
     200 Tests 0.125 EU/mL Sensitivity
                     Cat # N294-125, Lonza
  5                  4.1.1.1 Limulus Amebocyte Lysate (LAL) of 0.125 EU/mL sensitivity
                     4.1.1.1.1       4 x 50 test vials (5.2 mL/vial)
                     4.1.1.2 E. coli Endotoxin 055:B5, 10 ng/vial, Lyophilized, Control
     Standard Endotoxin (CSE)
                     4.1.1.2.1       NOTE: CSE potency in EU/mL is specified on the
 10  Certificate of Analysis. The COA is no longer provided with the kit.
                     4.1.1.2.2       To access a Certificate of Analysis, go to
     http://www.lonzabio.com/2506.html, enter the Catalog Number and Lot Number
     located on the product label on the front of the kit box.
                     4.1.2   LAL Reagent, Lysate sensitivity 0.125 EU/mL (Charles River
 15  Laboratories, cat # R11012)
                     4.1.2.1 Pack of 12
                     4.1.3   Control Standard Endotoxin lOng/vial (Charles River
     Laboratories, cat # E120_
                     4.1.3.1 Pack of 6
20                   4.1.4   LAL Reagent Water (LRW), 30 mL/vial
                     Cat # W130, Charles River Laboratories
                     Presence and quantity of mycoplasma
                     The presence of mycoplasma in transduced T cell cultures was
25   assessed using a mycoalert assay.
                     3.1.11 MycoAlert Mycoplasma Detection kit (Lonza, Catalog #
     LT07-3 18)- 100 tests
                     3.1.12 MycoAlert Assay Control Set (Lonza Catalog # LT07-518)
30                   3.1.13 96 well, opaque, white bottom micro-plates (Corning
     Incorporated catalog # 3912)
                     Corning Incorporated Life Sciences 45 Nagog Park, Acton MA 01720
                     Tel: 1-978-635-2200, Fax: 1-978-635-2476
                     Read on luminometer.
                                                        51

WO 2014/011996                                                           PCT/US2013/050287
                    MycoProbe Mycoplasma ELISA:
     http://www.mdsystems.com/pdf/CULOO1B.pdf
                    Presence and quantity of replication competent lentivirus (RCL)
  5                 The presence of RCL in transduced T cell cultures was assessed using
     a PCR assay assessing for VSV-G and HIVgag, and ELISA for p24.
                    Presence and quantity of p24
                    The presence of p24 in transduced T cell cultures was assessed using
 10  an ELISA assay.
                    5.1.1   PerkinElmer HIV-1 p 2 4 ELISA Kit
                    Cat. No.        NEK050 (1x 96-well plate),
                    NEK050A (2x 96-well plates)
 15                 NEK050B (5x 96-well plate)
                    PerkinElmer, Inc, 940 Winter Street, Waltham, Massachusetts 02451,
                    Tel: 800-762-4000
                    Presence and quantity of VSV-G nucleic acid
20                  The presence of VSV-G nucleic acid in transduced T cell cultures was
     assessed using a quantitative PCR assay using a primer/probe combination that
     specifically amplifies and detects VSV-G sequences under standard ABI
     amplification conditions. A qualified QPCR assay to quantify VSV-G DNA using the
     above primers has been established. The qualified assay utilizes a standard curve
25   generated from genomic DNA isolated from PBMC spiked with the plasmid pCI
     VSV-G which contains the VSV-G gene sequence; the standard curve ranges from 1 x
      106-10 copies VSV-G/100 ng PBMC. For each final product the presence of residual
     VSV-G DNA is evaluated in triplicate reactions using approximately 200 ng genomic
     DNA isolated from the product. The amount of residual VSV-G plasmid is
30   determined from the standard curves and reported as copies VSV-G
     plasmid/microgram genomic DNA after correcting and normalizing for amount of
     input DNA. The presence of contaminating plasmid nucleic acid for each of the
     additional packaging plasmids (LIST) can be determined in this manner using
                                                     52

WO 2014/011996                                                               PCT/US2013/050287
     primer/probe combinations specific for each plasmid used in the packaging step
     (VSVG, Gag pol, P24, pRSV.rev).
                     Presence and quantify of bacteria
  5                  The presence of bacteria in transduced T cell cultures was assessed by
     attempting to culture bacteria using material from the transduced T cell cultures. The
     BACTEC assay is used to test for bacterial contamination. BACTEC culture vials
     support the growth of common aerobic microorganisms, and they are inoculated by
     sterile syringe containing 1-3 ml of culture medium. Detection of growth is performed
 10  using the BACTEC 9050 instrument, which measures increases in CO 2 concentration
     over time. This assay is performed at the CVPF in accordance with SOP 0361, which
     is provided elsewhere herein. The sensitivity of this test in the CVPF laboratory has
     not been confirmed, but published studies indicate that the BACTEC is more
     sensitive, faster in time to detection, less prone to false-positive results than the CFR
 15  method (Khuu et al, 2004 and 2006).
                     Presence and quantity of fungus
                     The presence of fungus in transduced T cell cultures was assessed by
     attempting to culture bacteria using material from the transduced T cell cultures.
20   Testing for fungal contamination is performed at the HUP Clinical Microbiology
     laboratories using Sabouraud Brain Heart Infusion Agar based on the formulation of
     Gorman, 1967. The media is optimized to improved fungal recovery, and also
     contains various antimicrobial agents to impede the outgrowth of bacteria that might
     compete with fungal growth. Culture medium is inoculated by streaking. Cultures are
25   followed for 14 days to be determined negative. The sensitivity of this assay has not
     been determined by the Clinical Microbiology Laboratory. Positive controls for this
     assay include three fungi, Blastomyces dermatitidis, Candida albicans, and
     Trichophyton mentagrophytes, which should grow to indicate viable media. To
     monitor for the potency of the antimicrobial agents, control plates are inoculated with
30   Escherichia coli and partial to complete inhibition should be observed.
                      Storage
                                                        53

WO 2014/011996                                                              PCT/US2013/050287
                      Bags (10 to 100 ml capacity) containing CART-19-transduced T cells
     are stored in blood bank conditions in a monitored -13 5'C freezer. Infusion bags are
     stored in the freezer until needed.
  5                   Cell thawing
                      After logging the cells in the investigational pharmacy, frozen cells are
     transported in dry ice to the subject's bedside. The cells are thawed at the bedside one
     bag at a time using a water bath maintained at 36'C to 38'C. The bag is gently
     massaged until the cells have just thawed. There should be no frozen clumps left in
 10  the container.
                      Administration/Infusion
                      Infusions begin 1 to 2 days after completion of chemotherapy. The day
     of the first infusions, patients have a CBC with differential, and assessment of CD3,
 15  CD4 and CD8 counts since chemotherapy is given in part to induce lymphopenia.
     Without wishing to be bound by any particular theory, it is believed that an initial i.v.
                        9
     dose of 2.5-5x10     CART-19 cells is optimal for this protocol. Because there are about
      1x  1012 T cells in a healthy adult, the proposed total dose is equivalent to about 0.5%
     of the total body mass of T cells (Roederer, 1995, Nat Med, 1: 621-7; Macallan et al.,
20   2003, Eur J Immunol, 33: 2316-26). The first dose is administered using a split dose
     on days 0 (10%), 1 (30%) and 2 (60%). Subjects receive infusion in an isolated room.
     The cells are thawed at the patient's bedside as described elsewhere herein. The
     thawed cells are given at an infusion rate as quickly as tolerated so that the duration of
     the infusion is approximately 10-15 minutes. The transduced T cells are administered
25   by rapid intravenous infusion at a flow rate of approximately 1OmL to 20mL per
     minute through an 18-gauge latex free Y-type blood set with a 3-way stopcock. The
     duration of the infusion is approximately 15 minutes. One or two bags of CART-19
     modified cells are delivered on ice, and the cells are administered to the subject while
     cold. In subjects receiving mixtures of CART-19 cells, in order to facilitate mixing,
30   the cells are administered simultaneously using a Y-adapter. Subjects are infused and
     premedicated as described elsewhere herein. Subjects' vital signs are assessed and
     pulse oximetry is done prior to dosing, at the end of the infusion and every 15 minutes
     thereafter for 1 hour and until these are stable and satisfactory. A blood sample for
     determination of baseline CART- 19 level is obtained before infusion and 20 minutes
                                                        54

WO 2014/011996                                                             PCT/US2013/050287
     post infusion. Patients experiencing toxicities from their preceding cytoreductive
     chemotherapy have their infusion schedule delayed until these toxicities have
     resolved. The specific toxicities warranting delay of T cell infusions include: 1)
     Pulmonary: Requirement for supplemental oxygen to keep saturation greater than
  5  95% or presence of radiographic abnormalities on chest x-ray that are progressive; 2)
     Cardiac: New cardiac arrhythmia not controlled with medical management. 3)
     Hypotension requiring pressor support. 4) Active Infection: Positive blood cultures
     for bacteria, fungus, or virus within 48-hours of T cell infusion. A serum sample for
     potassium and uric acid is collected before the first infusion as well as two hours after
 10  each subsequent infusion.
                     The disclosures of each and every patent, patent application, and
     publication cited herein are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
     While this invention has been disclosed with reference to specific embodiments, it is
 15  apparent that other embodiments and variations of this invention may be devised by
     others skilled in the art without departing from the true spirit and scope of the
     invention. The appended claims are intended to be construed to include all such
     embodiments and equivalent variations.
                                                       55

WO 2014/011996                                                          PCT/US2013/050287
                                            CLAIMS
     What is claimed is:
                     1.     A method of analyzing a genetically modified T cell to detect a
     contaminant, wherein the genetically modified T cell comprises a nucleic acid
     encoding a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR), wherein the CAR comprises an antigen
     binding domain, a transmembrane domain, a costimulatory signaling region, and a
     signaling domain.
                     2.     The method of claim 1, wherein the genetically modified T cell
     was genetically modified by transduction with a lentiviral vector.
                     3.     The method of claim 1, wherein the contaminant is at least one
     selected from the group consisting of endotoxin, mycoplasma, replication competent
     lentivirus (RCL), p24, VSV-G nucleic acid, HIV gag, residual anti-CD3/anti-CD28
     coated beads, mouse antibodies, pooled human serum, bovine serum albumin, bovine
     serum, culture media components, vector packaging cell or plasmid components, a
     bacterium and a fungus.
                     4.     The method of claim 3, wherein the bacterium is at least one
     selected from the group consisting of Alcaligenes faecalis, Candida albicans,
     Escherichia coli, Haemophilus influenza, Neisseria meningitides, Pseudomonas
     aeruginosa, Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pneumonia, and Streptococcus
     pyogenes group A.
                     5.     The method of claim 1, wherein the signaling domain is a CD3
     zeta signaling domain.
                     6.     The method of claim 1, wherein the antigen binding domain is
     an antibody or an antigen-binding fragment thereof.
                     7.     The method of claim 6, wherein the antigen-binding fragment
     is a Fab or a scFv.
                                                    56

WO 2014/011996                                                           PCT/US2013/050287
                     8.     The method of claim 1, wherein the antigen binding domain
     binds to a tumor antigen.
                     9.     The method of claim 8, wherein the tumor antigen is associated
     with a hematologic malignancy.
                     10.    The method of claim 8, wherein the tumor antigen is associated
     with a solid tumor.
                     11.    The method of claim 8, wherein the tumor antigen is selected
     from the group consisting of CD19, CD20, CD22, RORi, mesothelin, CD33/IL3Ra,
     c-Met, PSMA, Glycolipid F77, EGFRvIII, GD-2, NY-ESO-i TCR, MAGE A3 TCR,
     and any combination thereof.
                     12.    The method of claim 1, wherein the costimulatory signaling
     region comprises the intracellular domain of a costimulatory molecule selected from
     the group consisting of CD27, CD28, 4-1BB, OX40, CD30, CD40, PD-1, ICOS,
     lymphocyte function-associated antigen-I (LFA-1), CD2, CD7, LIGHT, NKG2C, B7
     H3, a ligand that specifically binds with CD83, and any combination thereof.
                     13.    The method of claim 1, wherein the genetically modified T cell
     is not administered to a human subject because of the identification and quantification
     of the contaminant.
                     14.    The method of claim 1, wherein the genetically modified T cell
     is not administered to a human subject because the quantity of the contaminant is
     excessive as compared with a corresponding control level.
                                                     57

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
