                                         ABSTRACT
The present invention provides oligopeptides, in particular, Ang-(1-7) derivatives, and methods
for using and producing the same. In one particular embodiment, oligopeptides of the invention
have higher blood-brain barrier penetration and/or in vivo half-life compared to the native Ang
(1-7), thereby allowing oligopeptides of the invention to be used in a wide variety of clinical
applications including in treatment of cognitive dysfunction and/of impairment.

    ANG-(1-7) DERVIATIVE OLIGOPEPTIDES AND METHODS FOR
                        USING AND PRODUCING THE SAME
                  CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0000]          The present application is a divisional application of Australian Application No.
2015294371, which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
[0001]          This application claims the priority benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No.
62/027,219, filed July 21, 2014, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
                                 FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0002]          The present invention relates to oligopeptides, such as Ang-(1 -7) derivatives,
and methods for using and producing the same. In one particular embodiment, oligopeptides
of the invention have higher blood-brain barrier penetration and/or longer in vivo half-life
compared to the native Ang-(1-7), thereby allowing compounds of the invention to be used in
a wide variety of clinical applications to treat cognitive dysfunction and/or impairment.
                            BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0003]          Cognitive dysfunction or impairment is a common neurological complication
of congestive heart failure ("CHF") and post cardiac surgery affecting approximately 50-70%
of patients at hospital discharge and 20-40% of patients six months after surgery. The
occurrence of CHF and postoperative cognitive dysfunction is associated with increased
duration of hospitalization and impaired long-term quality of life. Without being bound by
any theory, it is believed that in general any clinical condition associated with an increase in
inflammatory cytokines and/or increase in reactive oxygen species in central nervous system,
in particular in the brain, can lead to cognitive dysfunction.
[0004]           Unfortunately, currently there is no effective pharmacological treatment for
cognitive impairment or dysfunction for CHF and postoperative patients or for any other
clinical condition associated with an increase in inflammation cytokines and/or increase in
reactive oxygen species in the brain.
[0005]          The present inventors have shown that CHF results in a significant impairment
of both spatial memory and object recognition ability. The present inventors have also
discovered that systemic administration of native Ang-(1-7) attenuates CHF-induced spatial
memory and object recognition impairment. In addition, Mas, the receptor for Ang-(1-7), is
known to be expressed in the hippocampus. In addition, other researchers using two different
rat models have shown that Ang-(1-7) protects the cortex against reactive oxygen species
("ROS")-mediated damage from cerebral ischemia. This strongly implicates that the
neuroprotective ability of Ang-(1-7) against CHF-induced cognitive impairment is mediated
                                                  -1 -

by central activation of the Ang-(1 -7)/Mas signaling axis at both the vascular endothelial and
neuronal levels.
[00061         Unfortunately, it is generally well known that oligopeptides, such as Ang-( 1-7)
are relatively easily degraded in vivo and/or are not suitable for conventional administration
as Ang-(1-7) cannot readily cross the blood-brain barrier.
[00071          Accordingly, there is a need for Ang-(1-7) derivatives that can relatively
readily cross the blood-brain barrier and/or have a substantially longer in vivo half-life
compared to the native Ang-(1-7).
                               SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[00081          Some aspects of the invention provide an oligopeptide that is angiotensin-(1
7), i.e., "Ang-(1-7)", derivative. Oligopeptides of the invention have a longer in vivo half
life and/or increased blood-brain barrier penetration than Ang-(1-7). In some embodiments,
the oligopeptides of the invention have seven or eight amino acids.
[0009]          One particular aspect of the invention provides an oligopeptide derivative of
the formula: Al-A2 -A3 -A 4-A-A-A-A           (SEQ ID NO:1), where A' is selected from the
group consisting of aspartic acid, glutamic acid, alanine, and a derivative thereof; A2 is
selected from the group consisting of arginine, histidine, lysine, and a derivative thereof; A 3
is selected from the group consisting of valine, alanine, isoleucine, leucine, and a derivative
thereof; A4 is selected from the group consisting of tyrosine, phenylalanine, tryptophan, and a
derivative thereof; As is selected from the group consisting of isoleucine, valine, alanine,
leucine, and a derivative thereof; A6 is selected from the group consisting of histidine,
arginine, lysine, and a derivative thereof; A7 is selected from the group consisting of proline,
glycine, seine, and a derivative thereoft and As can be present or absent, wherein when As is
present, A8 is selected from the group consisting of serine, threonine, hydroxyproline, and a
derivative thereof, provided (i) at least one of A'-As is optionally substituted with a mono- or
di-carbohydrate; or (ii) when As is absent: (a) at least one of A' -A7 is substituted with a
mono- or di-carbohydrate, (b) A' is terminated with an amino group, or (c) a combination
thereof
[0010]          In some embodiments, carbohydrate comprises glucose, galactose, xylose,
fucose, rhamnose, lactose, cellobiose, melibiose, or a combination thereof. In another
embodiment, A 8 is serine or a derivative thereof.
[00111          Still in other embodiments, (i) A8 is terminated with an amino group; or (ii)
when A8 is absent, A7 is terminated with an amino group. Within these embodiments, in
some instances (i) A8 is seine that is glycosylated with glucose or lactose; or (ii) when A is
                                                -2-

absent, A' is serine that is glycosylated with glucose or lactose. Still in other instances, when
A8 is absent and A7 shrine that is glycosylated with glucose. Within the latter instances, in
some cases A is terminated with an amino group.
[0012]          Yet in other embodiments, A' is aspartic acid; A2 is arginine; A3 is valine; A4
is tyrosine; A5 is isoleucine; A6 is histidine; and (i) As is absent and A7 is terminated with an
amino group or A7 is a glycosylated serine, or (ii) A8 is serine terminated with an amino
group. Within these embodiments, in some cases As is a glycosylated serine. Still in other
cases, A is absent and A7 is a glycosylated serine that is terminated with an amino group.
[0013]          Another aspect of the invention provides a glycosylated Ang-(1-7) derivative
having eight amino acids or less, typically seven or eight amino acids (e.g., amino acid
residues). In some embodiments, the glycosylated Ang-(1-7) derivative is glycosylated with
xylose, fucose, rhamnose, glucose, lactose, cellobiose, melibiose, or a combination thereof
Still in other embodiments, the carboxylic acid end of said glycosylated Ang-(1-7) derivative
is substituted with an amino group.
[0014]          Other aspects of the invention provide methods for treating cognitive
dysfunction and/or impairment in a subject by administering a therapeutically effective
amount of an oligonucleotide of the invention. In general, oligopeptides of the invention can
be used to treat any clinical condition that can be treated with Ang-(1-7).
                        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[00151          Figure 1 is a graph showing some of the oligopeptides of the invention and
native Ang-(1-7) to activate human umbilical vascular endothelial cells (HUVEC) in culture.
[00161          Figure 2 is a graph showing NO production assay results for native Ang-(1-7)
and oligopeptides PN-A3, PN-A4 and PN-A5 of the invention.
[0017]          Figure 3A is a graph showing the select Mas receptor antagonists A779 blocks
NO production induced by oligopeptide PN-A5 of the invention.
[0018]          Figure 3B is a graph showing the averaged effect of the select Mas receptor
antagonists A779 on NO production induced by oligopeptide PN-A5.
[00191          Figure 4 is a graph showing the effects of oligopeptide PN-A5 on heart failure
induced object recognition memory impairment.
[0020]          Figure 5 is a graph showing the effects of oligopeptide PN-A5 on heart failure
induced spatial memory impairment.
[0021]          Figure 6A is a graph showing oligopeptide PN-A5 attenuates CIBP acutely.
[0022]          Figure 6B is a graph showing the results of tactile allodynia test using von
Frey filaments.
                                                 -3-

                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
Definitions
[00231          The term "native" refers to any sequence of L amino acids used as a starting
sequence or a reference for the preparation of partial or complete retro, inverso or retro
inverso analogues. Thus, the term "native Ang-(1-7)" refers to an oligopeptide having the
same amino acid sequence as that of endogenous Ang-(l-7). It should be appreciated that the
use of the term "native" does NOT imply naturally occurring, although it can include
naturally occurring Ang-(1-7). The term "native" merely refers to having the same amino
acid sequence as that of Ang-(1-7) without any modification of the amino acid residues.
Accordingly, the term "native Ang-(1-7)" includes both synthetic Ang-(1-7) and naturally
occurring Ang-( 1-7) as long as the amino acid residues are the same and are not modified.
[0024]          The term "Ang-(1-7) derivative" refers to oligopeptide in which one or more
amino acid residue is either modified or different than the amino acid residue of the
corresponding native Ang-(l-7). The term "Ang-(1 -7) derivative" also includes oligopeptide
of eight amino acid residues as discussed in more detail below.
[0025]          The term "retro modified" refers to a peptide which is made up of L-amino
acids in which the amino acid residues are assembled in opposite direction to the native
peptide with respect the which it is retro modified. The term "inverso modified" refers to a
peptide which is made up of D-amino acids in which the amino acid residues are assembled
in the same direction as the native peptide with respect to which it is inverso modified. The
term "retro-inverso modified" refers to a peptide which is made up of D-amino acids in which
the amino acid residues are assembled in the opposite direction to the native peptide with
respect to which it is retro-inverso modified. Thus, native Ang-(1-7) (L-amino acids, N-+C
direction) is: Asp-Arg-Val-Tyr-Ile-His-Pro, i.e., DRVYIHP (SEQ ID NO:2). Retro-inverso
Ang-(1-7) (D-amino acids, C-*N direction) is: DRVYIHP (SEQ ID NO:3). Retro Ang-(1-7)
(L-amino acids, C-+N direction) is: DRVYIHP (SEQ ID NO:4). And inverso Ang-(1-7) (D
amino acids, N-+C direction) is: DRVYIHP (SEQ ID NO:5). The use of D-amino acids in
the context of inverso modified and retro-inverso modified Ang-(1-7) derivatives is not
intended to be limiting on the use of D-amino amino acids in the oligopeptides. As discussed
in more detail below, fewer than all of the amino acids in an Ang-(l -7) derivative may be D
amino acids.
[0026]          The term "carbohydrate" refers to pentose and hexose of empirical formula
(CH 2 0)., where n is 5 for pentose and 6 for hexose. A carbohydrate can be monosaccharide,
disaccharide, oligosaccharide (e.g., 3-20, typically 3-10, and often 3-5 monomeric
                                               -4-

saccharides are linked together), or polysaccharide (e.g., greater than 20 monomeric
saccharide units). More often, the term carbohydrate refers to monosaccharide and/or
disaccharide. However, it should be appreciated that the scope of the invention is not limited
to mono- or di-saccharides. Often the terms "carbohydrate" and "saccharide" are used
interchangeably herein.
[00271           The term "oligopeptide" as used throughout the specification and claims is to
be understood to include amino acid chain of any length, but typically amino acid chain of
about fifteen or less, often ten or less, still more often eight or less, and most often seven or
eight.
[00281           It should be appreciated that one or more of the amino acids of Ang-(1-7) can
be replaced with an "equivalent amino acid", for example, L (leucine) can be replaced with
isoleucine or other hydrophobic side-chain amino acid such as alanine, valine, methionine,
etc., and amino acids with polar uncharged side chain can be replaced with other polar
uncharged side chain amino acids. While Ang-(1-7) comprises 7 amino acids, in some
embodiments the oligopeptide of the invention has eight or less amino acids.
[0029]           The term "derivative" refers to any chemical modification of the amino acid,
such as alkylation (e.g., methylation or ethylation) of the amino group or the functional group
on the side chain, removal of the side-chain functional group, addition of a functional group
(e.g., hydroxyl group on proline), attachment of mono- or di-carbohydrate (e.g., via
glycosylation) etc. Exemplary glycosylated derivatives include hydroxyl group on serine that
is glycosylated with glucose, galactose, ribose, arabinose, xylose, lyxose, allose, altrose,
mannose, gulose, iodose, talose, fucose, rhamnose, etc. as well as disaccharides and amino
sugars such as galactosamine, glucosamine, sialic acid, N-acetyl glucosamine, etc. Amino
acid derivatives also include modified or unmodified D-amino acids.
[00301           The term "combinations thereof," which reference to any modifications (e.g,
carbohydrate modifications) of Ang-(1-7) derivatives refers to oligopeptides in which two,
three, four, five, six, seven, or eight of the individual amino acids are modified by the
attachment of a carbohydrate. For Ang-(1-7) derivatives having a plurality of carbohydrate
modifications, the modifying carbohydrates may be the same on every modified amino acid,
or the several modified amino acids may comprise a mixture of different carbohydrates.
[0031]           "A therapeutically effective amount" means the amount of a compound that,
when administered to a mammal, at an appropriate interval and for a sufficient duration for
treating a disease, is sufficient to effect such treatment for the disease. The "therapeutically
effective amount" will vary depending on the compound, the disease and its severity,
                                                 -5-

physiological factors unique to the individual including, but not limited to the age, weight,
and body mass index, the unitary dosage, cumulative dosage, frequency, duration, and route
of administration selected.
[0032]           As used herein, the term "treating", "contacting" or "reacting" when referring
to chemical synthesis means to add or mix two or more reagents under appropriate conditions
to produce the indicated and/or the desired product. It should be appreciated that the reaction
which produces the indicated and/or the desired product may not necessarily result directly
from the combination of two reagents which were initially added, i.e., there may be one or
more intermediates which are produced in the mixture which ultimately leads to the
formation of the indicated and/or the desired product.
[0033]           As used herein, the terms "treating" and "treatment" refer to effecting an
improvement of any symptom or physiological, cognitive, or biochemical indicium of the
condition or disease being treated. For example, treatment of a cognitive dysfunction and/or
impairment may refer to: (1) preventing cognitive dysfunction and/or impairment from
occurring, i.e., causing the clinical symptoms of cognitive dysfunction and/or impairment not
to develop in a subject that may be or predisposed to developing cognitive dysfunction and/or
impairment but does not yet experience or display symptoms of cognitive dysfunction and/or
impairment; (2) inhibiting cognitive dysfunction and/or impairment, i.e., arresting or
reducing the development of cognitive dysfunction and/or impairment or its clinical
symptoms; or (3) relieving cognitive dysfunction and/or impairment, i.e., causing regression
of cognitive dysfunction and/or impairment or its clinical symptoms.
[00341           The terms "approximately" or "about" in reference to a number are generally
taken to include numbers that fall within a range of 5%, 10%, 15%, or 20% in either direction
(greater than or less than) of the number unless otherwise stated or otherwise evident from
the context (except where such number would be less than 0% or exceed 100% of a possible
value).
[0035]           The term "subject" or "patient" refers to any organism to which a composition
of this invention may be administered, e.g., for experimental, diagnostic, and/or therapeutic
purposes. Typical subjects include animals (e.g., mammals such as mice, rats, rabbits, dogs,
cats, non-human primates, and humans).
[0036]           Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have
the meaning commonly understood by a person skilled in the art to which this invention
belongs.
                                                -6-

[0037]          Oligopentides of the Invention: Some aspects of the invention provide
oligopeptides that are derivatives of Ang-(1-7). As discussed above, the term "derivative" of
Ang-(1-7) refers to an oligopeptide whose amino acid sequence of any one or more of Ang
(1-7) is modified (e.g., via methylation, presence of a functional group, such as hydroxy
group on proline), attached to a carbohydrate, is replaced with corresponding D-amino acid
or an "equivalent amino acid" as defined above, and/or the terminal amino group end or the
carboxyl end of Ang-(1-7) is modified, for example, the carboxylic acid end can be modified
to be an amide, an amine, a thiol, or an alcohol functional group, or one in which an
additional amino acid residue is present compared to native Ang-(1-7). It should be
appreciated that the term "Ang-(1-7) derivative" excludes the native Ang-(l -7), i.e., amino
acid sequences of endogenous Ang-(1-7) without any modification.
[0038]          In some embodiments, oligopeptides of the invention have the amino group on
the carboxylic acid terminal end (i.e., the -OH group of the carboxylic acid is replaced with
-NRaRb, where each of Ra and Rb is independently hydrogen or C1 -C6 alkyl) and/or have one
or more amino acid residues that are (i) replaced with a corresponding D-amino acid, (ii)
glycosylated, (iii) replaced with another amino acid, (iv) or a combination thereof.
[00391          Still in other embodiments, the oligopeptide of the invention is retro-inverso
Ang-(1-7). Yet in other embodiments, the oligopeptide of the invention is retro Ang-(1-7).
In other embodiments, the oligopeptide of the invention is inverso Ang-(1-7).
[00401          Other embodiments of the invention include Ang-(l-7) derivatives in which at
least one or more, typically one or two, and often only one amino acid is attached to a
carbohydrate. Generally, the carbohydrate is attached to the amino acid via glycosylation.
Typically, the carbohydrate is a mono- or di-carbohydrate. Exemplary mono- and di
carbohydrates that can be used in the invention include, but are not limited to, xylose, fucose,
rhamnose, glucose, lactose, cellobiose, melibiose, and a combination thereof
[0041]          In one particular embodiment, the oligopeptide of the invention is Ang-(1-7)
derivative of the formula: A'A               5
                                      A AA-A7-A   7         (SEQ ID NO:1), where A] is
selected from the group consisting of aspartic acid, glutamic acid, alanine, and a derivative
thereof; A2 is selected from the group consisting of arginine, histidine, lysine, and a
derivative thereof; A3 is selected from the group consisting of valine, alanine, isoleucine,
leucine, and a derivative thereof; A4 is selected from the group consisting of tyrosine,
phenylalanine, tryptophan, and a derivative thereof; A5 is selected from the group consisting
of isoleucine, valine, alanine, leucine, and a derivative thereof; A6 is selected from the group
consisting of histidine, arginine, lysine, and a derivative thereof; A7 is selected from the
                                                -7-

group consisting of proline, glycine, serine, and a derivative thereof; and A' can be present or
absent, wherein when A8 is present, As is selected from the group consisting of serine,
threonine, hydroxyproline, and a derivative thereof, provided (i) at least one of A'-A 8 is
optionally substituted with a mono- or di-carbohydrate; or (ii) when As is absent: (a) at least
one of A' -A is substituted with a mono- or di-carbohydrate, (b) A is terminated with an
amino group, or (c) a combination thereof.
[0042]           In some embodiments, A' is the amino terminal end of the oligopeptide and
As (or A when A8 is absent) is the carboxyl terminal end. Still in other embodiments, A' is
the carboxyl terminal end and A' (or A7 when A' is absent) is the amino terminal end. Yet in
other embodiments, the carboxylic acid functional group of the carboxyl terminal end is
modified as an amide functional group, an amine functional group, a hydroxyl functional
group, or a thiol functional group. The amide and the amine functional groups can be non
alkylate, mono-alkylated or di-alkylated.
[0043]           Yet in other embodiments, the carbohydrate comprises glucose, galactose,
xylose, fucose, rhamnose, or a combination thereof In some instances, the carbohydrate is a
mono-carbohydrate, whereas in other instances, the carbohydrate is a di-carbohydrate.
[00441           In other embodiments, at least one of A'-A 8 is substituted with a mono
carbohydrate. Still in other embodiments, at least one of A' -A8 is substituted with a di
carbohydrate. It should be appreciated that the scope of the invention also includes those
oligopeptides having both mono- and di-carbohydrates.
[0045]           Exemplary di-carbohydrates that can be used in oligopeptides of the invention
include, but are not limited to, lactose, cellobiose, melibiose, and a combination thereof.
However, it should be appreciated that the scope of the invention includes oligopeptides that
are substituted with any dicarbohydrates known to one skilled in the art.
[0046]           In one particular embodiment, As is serine or a derivative thereof. In some
instances, the carboxylic acid moiety of the serine is modified as an amide or an amine. In
one case, serine is terminated as an amino group. Still in other embodiments, the serine
residue of A8 is glycosylated with glucose or lactose.
[0047]           Yet in other embodiments, at least one, typically at least two, generally at least
three, often at least four, still more often at least five, yet still more often at least six, and
most often all of A'-A 8 is D-amino acid.
[0048]           In particular, in some specific embodiments, said oligopeptide is retro
modified, inverso modified, or retro-inversomodified.
                                                  -8-

[0049]           Another aspect of the invention provides oligopeptides, such as Ang-( 1-7)
derivatives, having eight amino acids or less, typically seven or eight amino acid residues. In
some embodiments, one or more amino acids have attached thereto a carbohydrate group.
Often the carbohydrate group is attached to the oligopeptide via glycosylation. The
carbohydrate can be attached to the oligopeptide via any of the side chain functional group of
the amino acid or the amide group. Accordingly, the scope of the invention includes, but is
not limited to, 0-glycosylate, N-glycosylate, S-glycosylated oligopeptides. The term "X
glycosylated" refers to having a carbohydrate attached to the oligopeptide via the heteroatom
"X' of the amino acid. For example, for serine whose side-chain functional group is
hydroxyl, "O-glycosylated" means the carbohydrate is attached to the seine's side-chain
functional group, i.e., the hydroxyl group. Similarly, "N-glycosylation" of leucine refers to
having the carbohydrate attached to the amino side-chain functional group of leucine.
Typically, the glycosylation is on the side-chain functional group of the amino acid.
[0050]           In some embodiments, the Ang-(1-7) derivative is glycosylated with xylose,
fucose, rhamnose, glucose, lactose, cellobiose, melibiose, or a combination thereof.
[0051]           Yet in other embodiments, the carboxylic acid terminal end of said
glycosylated Ang-(l -7) derivative is substituted with an amino group. When referring to the
carboxyl acid terminal end being substituted with an amino group, it means -OH group of the
carboxylic acid is replaced with -NH 2 group. Thus, the actual terminal end functional group
is an amide, i.e., rather than having the oligopeptide being terminated at the carboxylic acid
terminal end with a functional group -CO2H, the carboxylic acid terminal end is terminated
with an amide group (i.e., -CO 2NR' 2, where each R' is independently hydrogen or C1-C 1 2
alkyl). Still in other embodiments, the carboxylic acid terminal group is terminated with a
hydroxyl or a thiol group. In some embodiments, the modified carboxylic acid terminal
group is used to attach the carbohydrate, e.g., via glycosylation.
[00521           One of the purposes of the invention was to produce Ang-(1-7) derivatives to
enhance efficacy of action, in vivo stabilization, and/or penetration of the blood-brain barrier.
Improved penetration of the blood-brain barrier facilitates cerebral entry of the Ang-(1-7)
derivative of the invention, and, consequently, Mas activation, or intrinsic-efficacy. To
improve (i.e., increase) penetration of the blood-brain barrier, in some embodiments the Ang
(1-7) derivative is attached to at least one mono- or di-carbohydrates.
[0053]           Without being bound by any theory, it is believed that the oligopeptide of the
invention that are glycosylated exploits the inherent amphipathicity of the folded Ang-(1-7)
glycopeptides (i.e., glycosylated oligopeptides of the invention) and the "biousian approach"
                                                -9-

to deliver the glycosylated oligopeptides of the invention across the blood-brain barrier. In
some instances, the amount of increase in crossing the blood-brain barrier by oligopeptides of
the invention is at least 6%, typically at least 10%, and often at least 15% compared to native
Ang-(1 -7). In other instances, oligopeptides of the invention have in vivo half-life of at least
30 min, typically at least 40 min, and often at least 50 min. Alternatively, compared to native
Ang-(1-7), oligopeptides of the invention exhibit at least 50 fold, typically at least 75 fold,
and often at least 100 fold increase in in vivo half-life.
[00541           In other embodiments, oligopeptides of the invention exhibit enhanced
vascular efficacy. Without being bound by any theory, it is generally recognized that blood
brain barrier transport occurs via an absorptive endocytosis process on the blood side of the
endothelium of the brain capillaries followed by exocytosis on the brain side, leading to
overall transcytosis. It is also believed that for this process to be efficient, the oligopeptide
must bind to the membrane for some period of time, and must also be able to exist in the
aqueous state for some period of time (biousian nature). Based on previous work from one of
the present inventors, it is believed that effective drug delivery and blood-brain barrier
transport requires a biousian glycopeptide that has at least two states: (1) a state defined by
one or more membrane-bound conformations that permit or promote endocytosis; and (2) a
state defined by a water-soluble, or random coil state that permits "membrane hopping" and,
presumably, vascular efficacy.
[00551           In general, the degree of glycosylation does not have a large effect on the
structure of the individual microstates. Thus, altering the degree of glycosylation allows for
the modulation of aqueous vs. membrane-bound state population densities without
significantly affecting the overall structure of the oligopeptide. Moreover, it is believed that
glycosylation also promotes stability to peptidases, thereby increasing the half-life of the
Ang-(l -7) derivatives in vivo.
Table 1: Some of the rpresentative oligoeptides of the invention.
                     1 2       3      4  5 6         7        8          carboxyl terminal end
                                                                            functional group
Native ATI- 7 Asp Arg Val Tyr Ile His Pro                      -     OH (SEQ ID NO:2)
PN-Al               Asp Arg Val Tyr Ile His Pro                -     NH 2 (SEQ ID NO:6)
PN-A2              Asp Arg Val Tyr Ile His Pro               Sert NH 2 (SEQ ID NO:7)
PN-A3              Asp Arg Val Tyr Ile His Pro               Ser* NH 2 (SEQ ID NO:8)
PN-A4               Asp Arg Val Tyr Ile His Pro Ser** NH 2 (SEQ ID NO:9)
PN-A5              Asp Arg Val Tyr Ile His Ser*               --     NH 2 (SEQ ID NO:10)
PN-A6-PN-           Ala 4 scan Tyr Ile etc. Pro Sero\*'** NH 2 (SEQ ID NO:11)
A ll                               I_                   I_ _     _ _    _    _ _   _    _   _
PN-A12             Asp Arg Xxx Tyr|Yyy His Pro Sero'*'** NH 2 (SEQ ID NO:12)
                                                - 10-

[PN-AXXs                A                                tttI
                                                  PHisiroo         HttSQ ID NO:13             )
 [00561         Table 1 above shows some of the representative oligopeptides of the invention.
In particular, these oligopeptides can be considered Ang-(1-7) derivatives. In Table 1, the "n
x", where x is an integer, represents the oligonucleotide identifier. For example, PN-Al
means oligopeptide number 1, PN-A2 means oligopeptide number 2, PN-A6-PN-A l I means
oligopeptide numbers 6 through 11, and so forth. Thus, the term "A-x" is used for
identification purposes only. As shown in Table 1, some of the oligopeptides have
carbohydrate attached to the native Ang-(1-7) peptide. These peptides are sometimes
referred to as glycopeptides.
 [0057]          Studies have shown that inherent binding of the glycopeptide to the native
receptor is minimally affected. Therefore, the glycosylated Ang-(1-7) derivatives, at a
minimum, maintain Mas binding similar to that of the native Ang-(l-7) peptide. In addition,
promoting the aqueous nature of the glycopeptide can further enhance vascular efficacy of
Ang-(1-7) derivatives. The degree of glycosylation (e.g., Table 1: unglycosylated Ser",
glucosylated Ser* or lactosylated Ser* *) for optimal blood-brain barrier transport is
determined using the best binding compounds from these using the in vivo mouse model.
Besides the disaccharide p-lactose, the more robust disaccharide 0-cellobiose is examined
using these first few structures. Based on the amino acid sequence of Ang-(l-7) and the
potential modification strategies, there are at least about 200 possible derivatives of Ang-(1-7)
that are rapidly generated using the well known oligopeptide synthesis, including automated
peptide synthesis as well as combinatorial synthesis.
 [0058]          Other aspects of the invention provide methods for treating cognitive
dysfunction and/or impairment in a patient using an oligopeptide of the invention. Typically,
methods of the invention include administering to a patient in need of such a treatment a
therapeutically effective amount of an oligopeptide of the invention. It should be appreciated
that the oligopeptides of the invention can be used to treat any clinical conditions that are
known to be treatable or appears to be treatable using Ang-(1-7). However, for the sake or
clarity and brevity, the invention will now be described in reference to treating cognitive
dysfunction and/or impairment in a patient.
 [0059]          The cognitive dysfunction that occurs in congestive heart failure (CHF)
patients includes decreased attention, memory loss, psychomotor slowing, and diminished
executive function, all of which compromises patients' ability to comply with complex
medical regimens, adhere to dietary restrictions and make self-care decisions. Mechanisms
                                              - 11 -

thought to contribute to cognitive impairment in patients with CHF include changes in
cerebral blood flow, altered cerebrovascular autoregulation and microembolisms. In one
study, cerebral blood flow was measured with single-photon emission computed tomography
(SPECT) and found to be reduced by 30% in patients with severe heart failure. The causes for
decreased cerebral perfusion in CHF have been attributed to low cardiac output, low blood
pressure and altered cerebrovascular reactivity. In some cases, the cognitive impairment seen
in CHF is improved following either heart transplant or improvement in cerebral blood flow
via optimal management of CHF. However, for many patients with CHF, management is
rarely optimal and the cognitive impairment persists. Interestingly, long-term follow up
studies have revealed that cognitively normal CHF patients have a significantly higher risk of
dementia or Alzheimer's disease compared to age-matched non-CHF controls, suggesting
that CHF and cardiovascular disease predispose patients to further cognitive impairment and
dementia.
[0060]           During CHF, the well characterized changes in the circulating neurochemical
milieu and increases in inflammatory factors are also seen in the brain. Most of the studies on
CHF-induced changes in inflammatory cytokines and ROS have focused on brain regions
involved in sympathetic outflow regulation and not on cognition. CHF elevates sympathetic
tone and causes abnormal cardiac and sympathetic reflex function. In the rat, ischemia
induced CHF significantly increases pro-inflammatory cytokines and Angiotensin II type 1
receptors (AT 1) in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus. Further, in CHF
rabbits, the increase in sympathetic outflow is blocked by ICV injection of the super oxide
dimustase (SOD) mimetic tempol, presumably by inhibition of ROS. CHF in this model is
associated with increased expression of NADPH oxidase subunits and ROS production in the
rostral ventral lateral medulla (RVLM) and increases in NO.
[00611           The role of ROS in learning and memory has been extensively studied. All of
the NAD(P)H oxidase subunits, including NOX2 and NOX4, have been localized within the
cell bodies and dendrites of neurons of the mouse hippocampus and perirhinal cortex and are
co-localized at synaptic sites. These are key regions of the brain in learning and memory. In
the brain, superoxide production via actions of NAD(P)H oxidase are known to be involved
in neurotoxicity, age related dementia, stroke and neurodegenerative diseases and have been
identified throughout the brain including the hippocampus, thalamus, cerebellum and
amygdala. In younger, healthy animals ROS and NAD(P)H oxidase is shown to be required
for normal learning and hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP). Recent studies in mice
lacking Mas have shown that Ang-(1 -7) and Mas are essential for normal object recognition
                                              - 12-

processing and blockade of Mas in the hippocampus impairs object recognition. In addition,
Ang-(1-7) facilitates LTP in CAl cells and this effect is blocked by antagonism of Mas. In
older animals or in CHF animals, an increase in ROS is linked to LP and memory
impairments.
[0062]          Over the last decade, it has become recognized that renin angiotensin system
(RAS) involves two separate enzymatic pathways providing a physiological counterbalance
of two related peptides acting at distinct receptors. The well described ACE-AngII-AT 1
receptor system is thought to be physiologically opposed and balanced by the ACE2-Ang-(1
7)-Mas system. Functionally, these two separate enzymatic pathways of RAS are thought to
be involved in balancing ROS production and nitric oxide (NO) in the brain,
microvasculature and peripheral tissues. Increases in ATI receptor activation are known to
increase NAD(P)H oxidase and ROS generation which are both known to contribute to
abnormal increases of sympathetic nerve activity observed in CHF and hypertension. This
increase in ATI receptor-induced ROS formation is thought to be opposed by ACE2-Ang-(1
7)-Mas inhibition of ROS formation. Ang-(1-7), the majority of which is produced from
ACE2 cleavage of Ang 11, decreases ROS production and increases NOS in the brain via
activation Mas and, possibly through AT2 receptor.
[00631          Within the brain, the Mas receptor is known to be expressed on neurons,
microglia and vascular endothelial cells. Further, all three of these key components that make
up the "neurovascular unit" (neurons, microglia and endothelial cells) are central players in
neurogenic hypertension and CHF-induced increases in brain inflammation and ROS
production. Both CHF and hypertension increase circulating cytokines promoting ROS
production within the "neurovascular unit". The end-result of this feed-forward cascade is
neuronal dysfunction and cognitive impairment. The ideal therapeutic candidate to treat
cognitive impairment would be designed to interrupt this cascade by working at both sides of
the blood-brain barrier, the brain vascular endothelium and neuronal cells. Ang-(l-7), acting
at the Mas receptor, is known to have effects at both endothelial cells and neurons. However,
using a native Ang-(1-7) for treating cognitive dysfunction and/or impairment is not suitable
because native Ang-(1-7) is susceptible to enzymatic degradation. Moreover, native Ang-(1
7) does not readily cross the blood-brain barrier to be suitable as a therapeutic agent.
[0064]          Without being bound by any theory, it is believed that one of the advantages
of using oligopeptides of the invention in treating cognitive dysfunction and/or impairment is
that oligopeptides of the invention have enhanced endothelial "interaction" and brain
penetration. It is believed that oligopeptides of the invention act at both endothelial cells and
                                               - 13-

neurons thus inhibiting inter alia neurovascular ROS production and mitigating the brain
inflammatory cascade.
[00651           Accordingly, oligopeptides the invention can be used to treat cognitive
impairment and/or dysfunction (1) associated with pre- and/or post-surgery dementia, or (2)
observed in patients with congestive heart failure, cardiovascular disease, or hypertension.
More generally, oligopeptides of the invention are useful in treating cognitive dysfunction
and/or impairment in a subject whose cognitive dysfunction and/or impairment is clinically
associated with an increase in inflammatory cytokines and/or increase in reactive oxygen
species ("ROS") in the central nervous system, in particular the brain. As used herein, the
term "clinically associated" refers to the root cause or underlying cause of cognitive
dysfunction and/or impairment (such as, but not limited to, memory loss) that when
ameliorated results in reduction, prevention, treatment or reversal of cognitive dysfunction
and/or impairment. Exemplary clinical conditions associated with an increase in
inflammatory cytokines and/or increase in reactive oxygen species that can cause cognitive
dysfunction and/or impairment include, but are not limited to, circulatory compromise,
cardiovascular disease, hypertension, hypotension, congestive heart failure, stroke, embolism,
surgery (e.g., postoperative recovery condition), dementia, Alzheimer's disease, disease
related cognitive impairment, trauma related cognitive impairment, age-related dementia,
postoperative related delirium and/or increase in inflammatory cytokine and/or increase in
reactive oxygen species within the central nervous system of said subject or a combination
thereof
[00661           Oligopeptides of the present invention can be administered to a patient to
achieve a desired physiological effect. Preferably the patient is an animal, more preferably a
mammal, and most preferably a human. The oligopeptide can be administered in a variety of
forms adapted to the chosen route of administration, i.e., orally or parenterally. Parenteral
administration in this respect includes administration by the following routes: intravenous;
intramuscular; subcutaneous; intraocular; intrasynovial; transepithelially including
transdermal, ophthalmic, sublingual and buccal; topically including ophthalmic, dermal,
ocular, rectal and nasal inhalation via insufflation and aerosol; intraperitoneal; and rectal
systemic.
[0067]           The active oligopeptide can be orally administered, for example, with an inert
diluent or with an assimilable edible carrier, or it can be enclosed in hard or soft shell gelatin
capsules, or it can be compressed into tablets. For oral therapeutic administration, the active
oligopeptide may be incorporated with excipient and used in the form of ingestible tablets,
                                               -14-

buccal tablets, troches, capsules, elixirs, suspensions, syrups, wafers, and the like. Such
compositions and preparation can contain at least 0.1% of active oligopeptide. The
percentage of the compositions and preparation can, of course, be varied and can
conveniently be between about 1 to about 10% of the weight of the unit. The amount of
active oligopeptide in such therapeutically useful compositions is such that a suitable dosage
will be obtained. Preferred compositions or preparations according to the present invention
are prepared such that an oral dosage unit form contains from about 1 to about 1000 mg of
active oligopeptide.
[0068]          The tablets, troches, pills, capsules and the like can also contain the following:
a binder such as gum tragacanth, acacia, com starch or gelatin; excipients such as dicalcium
phosphate; a disintegrating agent such as corn starch, potato starch, alginic acid and the like;
a lubricant such as magnesium stearate; and a sweetening agent such as sucrose, lactose or
saccharin can be added or a flavoring agent such as peppermint, oil of wintergreen, or cherry
flavoring. When the dosage unit form is a capsule, it can contain, in addition to materials of
the above type, a liquid carrier. Various other materials can be present as coatings or to
otherwise modify the physical form of the dosage unit. For instance, tablets, pills, or
capsules can be coated with shellac, sugar or both. A syrup or elixir can contain the active
oligopeptide, sucrose as a sweetening agent, methyl and propylparabens a preservatives, a
dye and flavoring such as cherry or orange flavor. Of course, any material used in preparing
any dosage unit form should be pharmaceutically pure and substantially non-toxic in the
amounts employed. In addition, the active oligopeptide can be incorporated into sustained
release preparations and formulation.
[00691          The active oligopeptide can also be administered parenterally. Solutions of
the active oligopeptide can be prepared in water suitably mixed with a surfactant such as
hydroxypropylcellulose. Dispersion can also be prepared in glycerol, liquid polyethylene
glycols, and mixtures thereof and in oils. Under ordinary conditions of storage and use, these
preparations contain a preservative to prevent the growth of microorganisms.
[00701          The pharmaceutical forms suitable for injectable use include sterile aqueous
solutions or dispersions and sterile powders for the extemporaneous preparation of sterile
injectable solutions or dispersions. In all cases the form must be sterile and must be fluid to
the extent that easy syringability exists. It can be stable under the conditions of manufacture
and storage and must be preserved against the contaminating action of microorganisms such
as bacterial and fungi. The carrier can be a solvent of dispersion medium containing, for
example, water, ethanol, polyol (e.g., glycerol, propylene glycol, and liquid polyethylene
                                                - 15-

glycol, and the like), suitable mixtures thereof, and vegetable oils. The proper fluidity can be
maintained, for example, by the use of a coating such as lecithin, by the maintenance of the
required particle size in the case of dispersion and by the use of surfactants. The prevention
of the action of microorganisms can be brought about by various antibacterial and antifungal
agents, for example, parabens, chlorobutanol, phenol, sorbic acid, thimerosal, and the like. In
many cases, it will be preferable to include isotonic agents, e.g., sugars or sodium chloride.
Prolonged absorption of the injectable compositions of agents delaying absorption, e.g.,
aluminum monostearate and gelatin.
[00711          Sterile injectable solutions are prepared by incorporating the active
oligopeptide in the required amount in the appropriate solvent with various other ingredients
enumerated above, as required, followed by filtered sterilization. Generally, dispersions are
prepared by incorporating the various sterilized active ingredient into a sterile vehicle which
contains the basic dispersion medium and the required other ingredients from those
enumerated above. In the case of sterile powders for the preparation of sterile injectable
solutions, the preferred methods of preparation are vacuum drying and the freeze drying
technique which yield a powder of the active ingredient plus any additional desired ingredient
from previously sterile-filtered solution thereof.
[00721          The therapeutic oligopeptides of the present invention can be administered to a
mammal alone or in combination with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers, as noted above,
the proportion of which is determined by the solubility and chemical nature of the
oligopeptide, chosen route of administration and standard pharmaceutical practice.
[00731          The physician will determine the dosage of the present therapeutic agents
which will be most suitable for prophylaxis or treatment and it will vary with the form of
administration and the particular oligopeptide chosen, and also, it will vary with the particular
patient under treatment. The physician will generally wish to initiate treatment with small
dosages by small increments until the optimum effect under the circumstances is reached.
The therapeutic dosage can generally be from about 0.1 to about 1000 mg/day, and preferably
from about 10 to about 100 mg/day, or from about 0.1 to about 50 mg/Kg of body weight per
day and preferably from about 0.1 to about 20 mg/Kg of body weight per day and can be
administered in several different dosage units. Higher dosages, on the order of about 2X to
about 4X, may be required for oral administration.
[0074]          Additional objects, advantages, and novel features of this invention will
become apparent to those skilled in the art upon examination of the following examples
thereof, which are not intended to be limiting. In the Examples, procedures that are
                                               - 16-

constructively reduced to practice are described in the present tense, and procedures that have
been carried out in the laboratory are set forth in the past tense.
                                          EXAMPLES
[0075\          Ang41-7) derivative high-throughputscreening (HTS) For HTS, a sensitive
and direct measure of nitric oxide (NO) production in 2 separate cell lines is utilized, primary
CA1 hippocampal neurons and human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC). The use of
primary CA1 cells is self-evident for the study of central effects. In addition, the contribution
of endothelial dysfunction to the progression of CHF and to the induction of cognitive
impairment is clinically appreciated. The emerging picture that the Ang-(1 -7) singling axis
holds promise as a therapeutic target for endothelial dysfunction strongly indicates that
reversal of CHF-induced endothelial dysfunction as mechanism cannot be ruled out. HUVEC
are isolated from the human umbilical vein and cryo-preserved after primary culture.
HUVEC is included as a second line for the primary screen because these cells are the model
in vitro system for the study of endothelial cell function and can be used to directly measure
Mas-dependent NO production.
[0076]          Cell culture. To isolate primary hippocampal CAl neuronal cells, whole brain
was removed from neonatal rat pups (1-2 day old) and the cortices dissected away. The
hippocampus was isolated and the CA1 field was excised and placed in buffer. After gentle
disruption in digestion buffer, the cells were counted, placed in culture media, and plated in a
96-well format coated with poly-d-lysine. At the time of plating, cells were approximately at
50% density and were allowed to culture to 70-80% density before starting the assay.
Commercially available HUVEC (Life Technologies/Thermo Fisher) was thawed and plated
(5000-10,000 cells/well) in a 96-well format coated with gelatin. H UVEC cells were allowed
to culture overnight before starting the assay.
[00771          Cell Activation: The xCELLigence system Real-Time Cell Analyzer (RTCA),
developed by Roche Applied Science, uses microelectronic biosensor technology to do
dynamic, real-time, label-free, and non-invasive analysis of cellular events including G
protein receptor activation of cells. The RTCA analysis was utilized to measure the potency
and relative ability of oligopeptides of the invention and native Ang-(1-7) to activate human
umbilical vascular endothelial cells (HUVEC) in culture. Following uniform cellular
adherence based on a linear increase in cell impedance (C), HUVECs were treated with
Ang-(1-7) and oligopeptides of the invention. Each trace of the CI over time in Figure 1
represents the average of 4 wells normalized to CI at the time of compound addition. Figure
1 shows the results from data acquired using the xCELLigence RTCA to measure the relative
                                               - 17-

potency of PN-A3, PN-A4, PN-A5 and native Ang-(1-7). A 100 nM administration of PN
A3, PN-A4 and PN-A5 and 10 nM of PN-A3 and PN-A5 resulted in a significant (-2-fold)
increase in CI over the native Ang-(1-7) demonstrating that the oligopeptides of the invention
have greater potency for cell activation than native Ang-(1-7).
[0078]           NO production assay. As a screen for mechanisms of action of oligopeptides
of the invention, the ability to increase NO production of three oligopeptides of the invention
(PN-A3, PN-A4 and PN-A5) were characterized and compared to native Ang-(1-7). Human
umbilical vascular endothelial cells (HUVEC) culture plates received fluorescence reaction
buffer (0.2 M phosphate buffer, pH 7, 1mM EDTA, 0.1% glucose) containing
diaminofluorescein-FM diacetate (DAF-FM, 1 LM) to measure real-time NO production.
Time-resolved (10 minutes) fluorescent intensity was detected using a BioTek Synergy 2
microplate reader with excitation at 485 nm and emission at 535 nm. DAF-FM is a sensitive
flourometric derivative for the selective detection of NO in live cells.
[0079]           Figure 2 shows relative peak fluorescence intensity following 5 minutes
exposure to native Ang-(1-7) and three oligopeptides of the invention. Values were
normalized to control fluorescence. As expected, native Ang-(1-7) induced a significant
elevation of NO over control levels. More importantly, as shown in Figure 2, oligopeptides of
the invention (namely PN-A3, PN-A4 and PN-A5) also elicited a significant elevation of NO
over control levels, with PN-A5 significantly enhancing NO production over that seen with
native Ang-( 1-7), * = p < 0.05. These results demonstrate that oligopeptides of the invention
increase NO production similar to or greater than that of native Ang-(1-7).
[00801           Figure 3A illustrates the ability of the select Mas receptor antagonists, A779,
(C39 H60NI 20 1 I) which is known to block native Ang-(1-7) NO production, to also block NO
production induced by the oligopeptide of the invention, namely PN-A5. In these studies,
HUVEC cells were incubated with DAF-FM, 1 pM to measure real-time NO production.
Cells were treated with either PN-A5 alone (1.0 mM, n= 10), PN-A5 + A779 (n=6).
Measurements were obtained using an Olympus 550 Confocal Microscope and analyzed
using Image J. Images were obtained every 10 sec. These results indicate that the
oligopeptide PN-A5 actions are due to activation of the Mas receptor.
[00811           Figure 3b shows the averaged effect of the select Mas receptor antagonists,
A779, which is known to block native Ang-(1-7) NO production, to also block NO
production induced by the oligopeptide of the invention, PN-A5. In these studies, HUVEC
cells were incubated with DAF-FM, 1 psM to measure real-time NO production. Cells were
treated with either PN-A5 alone (1.0 mM, n10), PN-A5+A779 (n=6), or the NO donor S
                                                - 18-

nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine (SNAP). Fluorescent measurements were obtained using an
Olympus 550 Confocal Microscope and analyzed using Image J. Images were obtained every
10 sec. The NO response produced by PN-A5 was completely blocked by A779
demonstrating that PN-A5's ability to increase NO is due to PN-A5 actions on the Mas
receptor.
[0082]          Effects ofAng-0-7) Derivative on HeartFailure(HF)Induced Cognitive
Impairment: A total of 33, male C57B1/6J adult mice (Harlan, 8-10 weeks old) were used.
Mice were randomly assigned to either the sham (n= 12) or congestive heart failure (CHF)
group (n=21). Experimental groups are described as follows: sham + saline, CHF + saline,
CHF + PN-A5. All mice prior to surgery were weighed and anesthetized. For the CHF mice,
MI was induced by ligation of the left coronary artery (LCA). Under anesthesia (2.5%
isoflurane in a mixture of air and 02) a thoracotomy was performed at the fourth left
intercostal space and the LCA permanently ligated to induce a myocardial infarction (MI).
Occlusion of the LCA was confirmed by observing blanching, a slight change in color of the
anterior wall of the left ventricle downstream of the ligature. Sham mice underwent the same
procedure with the exception of ligating the LCA.
[00831          Following 8 weeks post MI surgery, CHF mice were treated with either daily
subcutaneous injections of the Ang-(1-7) derivative PN-A5 (1 mg/kg/day) for 28 days or
saline. After 21 days, animals were tested for object recognition using a standard NOR test
as described below. After approximately 25 days of treatment, animals were tested for spatial
memory using the standard Morris water task as described below.
[00841          Novel Object Recognition (NOR): The apparatus consisted of an evenly
illuminated Plexiglas box (12 cmx 12 cm x 12 cm) placed on a table inside an isolated
observation room. All walls of the apparatus were covered in black plastic, and the floor was
grey with a grid that was used to ensure that the location of objects did not change between
object familiarization and test phases. The mouse behavior and exploration of objects was
recorded with a digital camera. The digital image from the camera was fed into a computer in
the adjacent room. Two digital stopwatches were used to track the time the mouse spent
interacting with the objects of the test. All data was downloaded to Excel files for analysis.
Triplicate sets of distinctly different objects were used for the test.
[0085]          The novel object recognition task included 3 phases: habituation phase,
familiarization phase, and test phase. For the habituation phase, on the first and second day,
mice were brought to the observation room habituated to the empty box for 10 min per day.
On the third day, each mouse had a "familiarization" trial with two identical objects followed
                                                - 19-

by a predetermined delay period and then a "test" trial in which one object was identical to
the one in the familiarization phase, and the other was novel. All stimuli were available in
triplicate copies of each other so that no object needed to be presented twice. Objects were
made of glass, plastic or wood that varied in shape, color, and size. Therefore, different sets
of objects were texturally and visually unique. Each mouse was placed into the box the same
way for each phase, facing the center of the wall opposite to the objects. To preclude the
existence of olfactory cues, the entire box and objects were always thoroughly cleaned with
70% ethanol after each trial and between mice. During the familiarization phase, mice were
allowed to explore the two identical objects for 4 min and then returned to their home cages.
After a 2 hour delay, the "test phase" commenced. The mice were placed back to the same
box, where one of the two identical objects presented in the familiarization phase was
switched to a novel one and the mouse was allowed to explore these objects for another 4 min.
Mouse "exploratory behavior" was defined as the animal directing its nose toward the object
at a distance of -2 cm or less. Any other behavior, such as resting against the object, or
rearing on the object was not considered to be exploration. Exploration was scored by an
observer blind to the mouse's surgical group (CHF vs. Sham). Finally, the positions of the
objects in the test phases, and the objects used as novel or familiar, were counterbalanced
between the 2 groups of mice.
[0086]          Discrimination ratios were calculated from the time spent exploring the novel
object minus time spent exploring the familiar object during the test phase divided by the
total exploration time. DRatio = (t novel - t familiar) / (t novel+ t familiar). Data were
analyzed from first 2 minutes of 'test phase'. A positive score indicates more time spent with
the novel object, a negative score indicates more time spent with the familiar object, and a
zero score indicates a null preference. All NOR data was examined using one-way analysis
of variance, between subjects (ANOVA). Individual group differences were tested using the
post hoc Tukey HSD test. In comparisons between groups of different sample sizes, equal
variance was tested using a modified Levene's test. All statistical tests and p-values were
calculated using MS Excel with Daniel's XLtoolbox and alpha was set at the 0.05 level. Error
bars represent SEM.
[0087\          Morris Water Task: Testing Spatial Learning and Memorv/Visual Test: The
apparatus used was a large circular pool approximately 1.5 meters in diameter, containing
water at 25 *C made opaque with addition of non-toxic white Crayolapaint. An escape
platform was hidden just below the surface of the water. Visual, high contrast cues were
placed on the walls of the test room. A digital camera connected to a computer in the adjacent
                                              -20-

room is suspended over the tank to record task progress. For spatial testing prior to MI at 4
and 8 weeks post-MI or sham surgery, the platform was located at different sites in the pool.
[00881           During the spatial version of the Morris water task, all animals were given 6
training trials per day over 4 consecutive days. During these trials, an escape platform was
hidden below the surface of water. Mice were released from seven different start locations
around the perimeter of the tank, and each animal performed two successive trials before the
next mouse was tested. The order of the release locations was pseudo-randomized for each
mouse such that no mouse was released from the same location on two consecutive trials.
Performance on the swim task was analyzed with a commercial software application (ANY
maze, Wood Dale, IL). Because different release locations and differences in swimming
velocity produce variability in the latency to reach the escape platform, a corrected integrated
path length (CIPL) was calculated to ensure comparability of mice performance across
different release locations. The CIPL value measures the cumulative distance over time from
the escape platform corrected by an animal's swimming velocity, and is equivalent to the
cumulative search error. Therefore, regardless of the release location, if the mouse mostly
swims towards the escape platform the CIPL value will be low. In contrast, the more time a
mouse spends swimming in directions away from the platform, the higher the CIPL value.
[00891           Following approximately 21 days of treatment with oligopeptide PN-A5, CHF
mice showed object recognition memory improvement. Figure 4 illustrates the effects of
three weeks treatment with oligopeptide PN-A5 on object recognition memory as determined
by the Novel Object Recognition Test (NOR). The mean performance of CHF mice with
oligopeptide PN-A5 treatment (n=I 1) was similar to sham mice with saline (n=6), (CHF
Ang-(1-7) derivative PN-A5 M = +0.38, SE .11 vs. Sham-saline M = +0.52, SE .06) and
significantly greater in comparison to CHF mice treated with saline (n=10) (M = -.05, SE .09,
* = p = 0.009. These results demonstrate that oligopeptide PN-A5 acts to attenuate and even
rescue object recognition memory impairment in mice with CHF.
[0090]           Following approximately 25 days of treatment with oligopeptide PN-A5, CHF
mice showed spatial memory improvement. Figure 5 shows the mean CIPL of CHF +
oligopeptide PN-A5 mice (n=1 1), CHF-saline treated mice (n=10) and Sham+saline mice
(n=6). The CHF + oligopeptide PN-A5 mice showed significant improvement in spatial
memory day 3 of the Morris swim task as compared to CHF-saline mice. CHF mice treated
with saline had a significantly higher CIPL score as compared to CHF-oligopeptide PN-A5
treated mice (CHF-saline M = 32.5, SE = 2.1 vs CHF-oligopeptide PN-A5 M = 23.5, SE 2.2,
* = p = 0.003. These results demonstrate that oligopeptide PN-A5 improves spatial memory.
                                               -21 -

[0091\           Effect ofoliZopeptide PN-AS on Nitric Oxide Bone Pain: Female
BALB/cfC3H mice (Harlan, IN, USA) were 15 to 20 g prior to initiation of study (n = 5
animals per treatment group). Clinical signs of morbidity were monitored and mice not
meeting inclusion parameters (e.g. paralysis, rapid weight loss of>20% in 1 week) were
removed from the study.
[00921           Mice were anesthetized with ketamine:xylazine (80mg:12mg/kg, 10ml/kg
injection volume; Sigma-Aldrich). An arthrotomy was performed. The condyles of the right
distal femoris were exposed and a hole was drilled to create a space for injection of
4 x 104 66.1 cells in 5 gL Opti-MEM or 5 L Opti-MEM without cells in control animals
within the intramedullary space of the mouse femoris. injections were made with an injection
cannula affixed via plastic tubing to a 10-L Hamilton syringe (C13 1, Plastics One). Proper
placement of the injector was confirmed through use of Faxitron X-ray imaging. Holes were
sealed with bone cement.
[00931           Spontaneous pain (flinching and guarding), and tactile allodynia were
measured 0, 15, 30, 60, 90 and 120 minutes after a single dose of drug was administrated in a
blinded fashion on Day 7. Breast cancer-induced hypersensitivity returned to baseline levels
2 hours after drug administration. Flinching and guarding were observed for duration of 2
minutes during a resting state. Flinching was characterized by the lifting and rapid flexing of
the right hind paw when not associated with walking or movement. Flinches were recorded
on a five-channel counter. Guarding was characterized by the lifting the right hind limb into a
fully retracted position under the torso. Time spent guarding over the duration of 2 minutes
was recorded.
[00941           The assessment of tactile allodynia consisted of measuring the withdrawal
threshold of the paw ipsilateral to the site of tumor inoculation in response to probing with a
series of calibrated von Frey filaments using the Chaplan up-down method with the
experimenter blinded to treatment groups. The 50% paw withdrawal threshold was
determined by the nonparametric method of Dixon.
[00951           On day 7, mice received an intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of either saline or
0.8 g/gL (200gL) for a total dose of 800 gg/kg. The in-vivo efficacy of PN-A5 was
measured for a total of 2 hours.
[0096]           Within group data were analyzed by non-parametric one-way analysis of
variance. Differences were considered to be significant if P S 0.05. All data were plotted in
GraphPad Prism 6.
                                               - 22 -

[0097]           Figure 6 shows the results on the effects of oligopeptide PN-A5 on cancer
induced bone pain (CIBP). Cancer implanted into the distal femoralis of mice induced a
significant increase in the number of spontaneous flinches (Figure 6A) and time spent
guarding (Figure 6B) after 7 days. Administration of a bolus of PN-A5 (800 gg/kg, i.p.)
significantly reversed cancer induces spontaneous pain for nearly one hour in duration
(flinching: 60 min; guarding: 30 min; p < 0.001). Similarly, cancer-induced tactile
hypersenstivity was significantly attenuated 30 minutes after injection (p < 0.01). For all
measurements, the time of peak effect was 15-30 min. Behaviors returned to post-surgery
values 90 min post-injection. Media inoculated, sham control animals did were not
statistically different from pre-surgery baselines at any point during time-course.
[0098]           The foregoing discussion of the invention has been presented for purposes of
illustration and description. The foregoing is not intended to limit the invention to the form
or forms disclosed herein. Although the description of the invention has included description
of one or more embodiments and certain variations and modifications, other variations and
modifications are within the scope of the invention, e.g., as may be within the skill and
knowledge of those in the art, after understanding the present disclosure. It is intended to
obtain rights which include alternative embodiments to the extent permitted, including
alternate, interchangeable and/or equivalent structures, functions, ranges or steps to those
claimed, whether or not such alternate, interchangeable and/or equivalent structures,
functions, ranges or steps are disclosed herein, and without intending to publicly dedicate any
patentable subject matter. All references cited herein are incorporated by reference in their
entirety.
                                               - 23 -

                                                   Claims
       1.       A octapeptide comprising the formula:
                       A1 -A 2-A 3-A 4-A 5-A 6-A 7-A   8     (SEQ ID NO:1)
wherein
       A' is selected from the group consisting of aspartic acid, glutamic acid, alanine, and
                glycosylated forms thereof;
       A 2 is selected from the group consisting of arginine, histidine, lysine, and glycosylated
                forms thereof;
       A 3 is selected from the group consisting of valine, alanine, isoleucine, leucine, and
                glycosylated forms thereof;
       A 4 is selected from the group consisting of tyrosine, phenylalanine, tryptophan, and
                glycosylated forms thereof;
       A 5 is selected from the group consisting of isoleucine, valine, alanine, leucine, and
                glycosylated forms thereof;
       A6 is selected from the group consisting of histidine, arginine, lysine, and glycosylated
                forms thereof;
       A 7 is selected from the group consisting of proline, glycine, serine, and glycosylated
                forms thereof; and
       A8 is selected from the group consisting of serine, threonine, hydroxyproline, and
                glycosylated forms thereof, and
wherein at least one of Al-A7 is glycosylated.
       2.       The octapeptide of Claim 1, wherein at least one of Al-A   7 is substituted with a
mono- or di-carbohydrate.
       3.       The octapeptide of Claim 2, wherein at least one of the mono- or di-carbohydrates
comprises glucose, galactose, xylose, fucose, rhamnose, lactose, cellobiose, and melibiose.
       4.       The octapeptide of any one of Claims 1-3, wherein A8 is terminated with an
amino group.
                                                - 24 -

         5.     The octapeptide of any one of Claims 1-4, wherein A' is serine or a glycosylated
form thereof.
         6      The octapeptide of claim 5, wherein A' is glycosylated serine.
         7.     The octapeptide of Claim 6, wherein the A' serine is glycosylated with glucose or
lactose.
         8.     The octapeptide of any one of claims 1-7, wherein the heptapeptide comprises at
least one D-amino acid.
         9.     The octapeptide of any one of claims 1-8, wherein each of A' - A 7 is a D-amino
acid.
         10.    The octapeptide of any one of Claims 1-9, wherein the heptapeptide comprises the
formula of SEQ ID NO: 7, SEQ ID NO: 8, or SEQ ID NO: 9..
         11.    The octapeptide of any one of claims 1-9, wherein A' is alanine.
         12.    A method for treating cognitive impairment in a patient, said method comprising
administering to a patient in need of such a treatment a therapeutically effective amount of the
octapeptide of any one of Claims 1-11.
         13.    The method of claim 12, wherein the patient is diagnosed as having congestive
heart failure.
         14.    The method of claim 12, wherein the patient is diagnosed as having
cardiovascular disease or hypertension.
         15.    The method of claim 12, wherein the patient is diagnosed as having post-surgery
dementia.
         16.    The method of claim 12, wherein the patient is diagnosed as having dementia,
Alzheimer's disease, trauma related cognitive impairment, age-related dementia, or post
operative delirium.
                                                - 25 -

        17.     The method of any one of claims 12-16, wherein the octapeptide is administered
to the subject by intravenous, intramuscular, or subcutaneous injection.
        18.     The method of any one of claims 12-16, wherein the octapeptide is administered
to the subject by nasal insufflation.
                                               - 26 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
1/7

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
2/7

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
3/7

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
4/7

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
5/7

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
6/7

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
7/7

