    MODIFYING STRUCTURED SEARCH QUERIES ON ONLINE SOCIAL
                                   NETWORKS
ABSTRACT
In one embodiment, a method comprises, by a computing device:
       receiving, from a client system (130) of a first user of an online social
network (160), a first structured query comprising a natural-language string
generated by a grammar model and references to one or more objects associated
with the online social network (160);
       generating one or more query modifications for the first structured
query, each query modification comprising references to one or more
modifying objects associated with the online social network (160); and
       sending, to the client system (130) of the first user, one or more of the
query modifications as suggested modifications to the first structured query for
display to the first user, each query modification being selectable by the first
user to modify the natural-language string of the first structured query to
further comprise references to the one or more of the modifying objects
referenced in the selected query modification.

                       1/15
SOCIAL-NETWORKING SYSTEM
                                   160
            162
                    S0  0                       100
   SERVER
            164
                           o00
                    S
   DATA STORE
                                       CENT SYSTEM  130
                ,150
                                           WEB
                          N              BROWSER
            110                             132
                               150
                -150
       THIRD-PARTY
          SYSTEM           170
                       FIG. 1

                                           1
    MODIFYING STRUCTURED SEARCH QUERIES ON ONLINE SOCIAL
                                    NETWORKS
RELATED APPLICATIONS
[1]        The present application is related to United States Patent Application
Serial   No.   13/731,910,    filed  on   31   December     2012,  European     Patent
Application    No.   13197989.0,    filed  on   18   December    2013,  International
Application No. PCT/US2013/076820,           entitled "Modifying   structured search
queries on online social networks" and filed on 20 December 2013 in the name
of Facebook, Inc., Australian Patent Application No. 2013370988, entitled
"Modifying structured search queries on online social networks" and filed on
20 December 2013      in the    name    of Facebook,    Inc., United   States   Patent
Application Serial No. 15/073,339, filed on 17 March 2016, Australian Patent
Application No. <removed-apn>, entitled "Modifying structured search queries on
online social networks" and filed on 30 June 2016 in the name of Facebook,
Inc., and United States Patent Application Serial No. 15/596,888,            filed on
 <removed-date>, the entire content of each of which is incorporated herein by
reference as if fully set forth herewith.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[2]    This disclosure generally relates to social graphs and performing
searches for objects within a social-networking environment.
BACKGROUND
[3]    A social-networking system, which may include a social-networking
website, may enable its users (such as persons or organizations) to interact with
it and with each other through it. The social-networking system may, with input
from a user, create and store in the social-networking system a user profile
associated with the user. The user profile may include demographic
information, communication-channel information, and information on personal
interests of the user. The social-networking system may also, with input from a
user, create and store a record of relationships of the user with other users of

                                            2
the social-networking system, as well as provide services (e.g. wall posts,
photo-sharing, event organization, messaging, games, or advertisements) to
facilitate social interaction between or among users.
[4]     The social-networking system may transmit over one or more networks
content or messages related to its services to a mobile or other computing
device of a user. A user may also install software applications on a mobile or
other computing device of the user for accessing a user profile of the user and
other data within the social-networking system. The social-networking system
may generate a personalized set of content objects to display to a user, such as
a newsfeed of aggregated stories of other users connected to the user.
[5]     Social-graph analysis views social relationships in terms of network
theory consisting of nodes and edges. Nodes represent the individual actors
within the networks, and edges represent the relationships between the actors.
The resulting graph-based structures are often very complex. There can be
many types of nodes and many types of edges for connecting nodes. In its
simplest form, a social graph is a map of all of the relevant edges between all
the nodes being studied.
SUMMARY OF PARTICULAR EMBODIMENTS
[6]     In a first aspect, the present disclosure provides a method comprising, by
a computing device:
        receiving,   from a client system of a first user of an online social
network, a query input comprising one or more n-grams;
        sending, to the client system of the first user, instructions for presenting
one or more suggested modifications for the query input, each suggested
modification comprising references to one or more objects associated with the
online social network;
        receiving, from the client system of the first user, an indication of a
selection of one of the suggested modifications;
        parsing, using a context-free grammar model, the query input and the
selected suggested modification to generate an executable query command,
wherein the context-free grammar model comprising a plurality of grammars,

                                          3
each grammar comprising one or more non-terminal tokens and one or more
query tokens, each grammar being an ordered sub-tree adjoining one or more
other grammars via a non-terminal token, and wherein the query command
corresponds to a particular grammar of the plurality of grammars; and
       sending, to the client system of the first user, instructions for presenting
one or more search results corresponding to the query command.
[7]    In a second aspect, the present disclosure provides one or more
computer-readable non-transitory storage media embodying software that is
operable when executed to:
       receive, from a client system of a first user of an online social network, a
query input comprising one or more n-grams;
       send, to the client system of the first user, instructions for presenting one
or   more   suggested    modifications   for   the  query   input,  each   suggested
modification comprising references to one or more objects associated with the
online social network;
       receive, from the client system of the first user, an indication of a
selection of one of the suggested modifications;
       parse, using a context-free grammar model, the query input and the
selected suggested modification to generate an executable query command,
wherein the context-free grammar model comprising a plurality of grammars,
each grammar comprising one or more non-terminal tokens and one or more
query tokens, each grammar being an ordered sub-tree adjoining one or more
other grammars via a non-terminal token, and wherein the query command
corresponds to a particular grammar of the plurality of grammars; and
       send, to the client system of the first user, instructions for presenting one
or more search results corresponding to the query command.
[8]    In a third aspect, the present disclosure provides a system comprising:
one or more processors; and a memory coupled to the processors comprising
instructions executable by the processors, the processors operable when
executing the instructions to:
       receive, from a client system of a first user of an online social network, a
query input comprising one or more n-grams;

                                           4
        send, to the client system of the first user, instructions for presenting one
or   more    suggested    modifications   for  the   query   input,  each   suggested
modification comprising references to one or more objects associated with the
online social network;
        receive, from the client system of the first user, an indication of a
selection of one of the suggested modifications;
        parse, using a context-free grammar model, the query input and the
selected suggested modification to generate an executable query command,
wherein the context-free grammar model comprising a plurality of grammars,
each grammar comprising one or more non-terminal tokens and one or more
query tokens, each grammar being an ordered sub-tree adjoining one or more
other grammars via a non-terminal token, and wherein the query command
corresponds to a particular grammar of the plurality of grammars; and
       send, to the client system of the first user, instructions for presenting one
or more search results corresponding to the query command.
[9]    In particular embodiments, in response to a text query received from a
user, a social-networking system may generate structured queries comprising
query tokens that correspond to identified social-graph elements. By providing
suggested structured queries in response to a user's text query, the social
networking system may provide a powerful way for users of an online social
network to search for elements represented in a social graph based on their
social-graph attributes and their relation to various social-graph elements.
[10]   In particular embodiments, the social-networking system may receive an
unstructured text query from a user. In response, the social-networking system
may access a social graph and then parse the text query to identify social-graph
elements that corresponded to n-grams from the text query. The social
networking system may then access a grammar model, such as a context-free
grammar model. The identified social-graph elements may be used as terminal
tokens ("query tokens") in the grammars of the grammar model. Any grammar
that can utilize all of the identified query tokens may be selected. These
grammars may be identified by first generating a semantic tree corresponding
to the text query, and then analyzing a grammar forest to find sub-trees that

                                         5
match the semantic tree. The selected grammars may then be used to generate
natural-language structured queries that include query tokens referencing the
identified social-graph elements. The structured queries may then be
transmitted and displayed to the user, where the user can then select an
appropriate query to search for the desired content.
[11]   In particular embodiments, in response to a structured query, the social
networking system may generate one or more search results corresponding to
the structured query. These search results may be transmitted to the querying
user as part of a search-results page. Each search result may include one or
more snippets, where the snippet may be contextual information about social
graph entity that corresponds to the search result. For example, a snippet may
be information from the profile page associated with a node. Each search result
may also include at least one snippet providing social-graph information for the
search result. These snippets may contain references to the query tokens from
the structured query used to generate the search result.
[12]   In particular embodiments, in response to a structured query, the social
networking system may generate one or more query modifications for the
structured query. Each query modification may include references to modified
nodes or modified edges from the social graph, which may be used to add or
replace query tokens in the structured query. The query modifications may be
displayed on the search-results page, allowing a user to view the search results
and then select one or more query modifications to refine or pivot the
structured query and generate new search results. After modifying a structured
query with a particular query modification, an appropriate grammar may be
used to generate a new natural-language structured query that includes
reference to the social-graph elements used in the query modification. The
social-networking system may also generate alternative structured queries that
may be displayed on the search-results page. These alternative structured
queries include suggested queries, broadening queries, and disambiguation
queries.

                                           6
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[13]   FIG. 1            illustrates an example network environment associated
                         with a social-networking system.
       FIG. 2            illustrates an example social graph.
       FIG. 3            illustrates an example webpage of an online social
                         network.
       FIGs. 4A-4B       illustrate example queries of the social network.
       FIG. 5A           illustrates an example semantic tree
       FIG. 5B           illustrates an example grammar forest.
       FIG. 6            illustrates an example method for using a context-free
                         grammar model to generate natural-language structured
                         search queries.
       FIGs. 7A-7G       illustrate example search-results pages.
       FIG. 8            illustrates an example method for generating search
                         results and snippets.
       FIG. 9            illustrates an example method for modifying structured
                         search queries.
       FIG. 10           illustrates an example computer system.
DESCRIPTION OF EXAMPLE EMBODIMENTS
System Overview
[14]   FIG. 1 illustrates an example network environment 100 associated with a
social-networking system. Network environment 100 includes a client system
130, a social-networking system 160, and a third-party system 170 connected to
each other by a network 110. Although FIG. 1 illustrates a particular
arrangement of client system 130, social-networking system 160, third-party
system 170, and network 110, this disclosure contemplates any suitable
arrangement of client system 130, social-networking system 160, third-party
system 170, and network 110. As an example and not by way of limitation, two
or more of client system 130, social-networking system 160, and third-party
system 170 may be connected to each other directly, bypassing network 110. As

                                          7
another example, two or more of client system 130, social-networking system
 160, and third-party system 170 may be physically or logically co-located with
each other in whole or in part. Moreover, although FIG. I illustrates a
particular number of client systems 130, social-networking systems 160, third
party systems 170, and networks 110, this disclosure contemplates any suitable
number of client systems 130, social-networking systems 160, third-party
systems 170, and networks 110. As an example and not by way of limitation,
network environment 100 may include multiple client system 130, social
networking systems 160, third-party systems 170, and networks 110.
[15]   This disclosure contemplates any suitable network 110. As an example
and not by way of limitation, one or more portions of network 110 may include
an ad hoc network, an intranet, an extranet, a virtual private network (VPN), a
local area network (LAN), a wireless LAN (WLAN), a wide area network
(WAN), a wireless WAN (WWAN), a metropolitan area network (MAN), a
portion of the Internet, a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network
(PSTN), a cellular telephone network, or a combination of two or more of
these. Network 110 may include one or more networks 110.
[16]   Links 150 may connect client system 130, social-networking system 160,
and third-party system 170 to communication network 110 or to each other.
This disclosure contemplates any suitable links 150. In particular embodiments,
one or more links 150 include one or more wireline (such as for example
Digital Subscriber Line (DSL) or Data Over Cable Service Interface
Specification (DOCSIS)), wireless (such as for example Wi-Fi or Worldwide
Interoperability for Microwave Access (WiMAX)), or optical (such as for
example Synchronous Optical Network (SONET) or Synchronous Digital
Hierarchy (SDH)) links. In particular embodiments, one or more links 150 each
include an ad hoc network, an intranet, an extranet, a VPN, a LAN, a WLAN, a
WAN, a WWAN, a MAN, a portion of the Internet, a portion of the PSTN, a
cellular technology-based network, a satellite communications technology
based network, another link 150, or a combination of two or more such links
 150. Links 150 need not necessarily be the same throughout network

                                         8
environment 100. One or more first links 150 may differ in one or more
respects from one or more second links 150.
[17]    In particular embodiments, client system 130 may be an electronic device
including hardware, software, or embedded logic components or a combination
of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate
functionalities implemented or supported by client system 130. As an example
and not by way of limitation, a client system 130 may include a computer
system such as a desktop computer, notebook or laptop computer, netbook, a
tablet computer, e-book reader, GPS device, camera, personal digital assistant
(PDA), handheld electronic device, cellular telephone, smartphone, other
suitable electronic device, or any suitable combination thereof. This disclosure
contemplates any suitable client systems 130. A client system 130 may enable a
network user at client system 130 to access network 110. A client system 130
may enable its user to communicate with other users at other client systems
 130.
[18]    In particular embodiments, client system 130 may include a web browser
 132, such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER, GOOGLE CHROME or
MOZILLA FIREFOX, and may have one or more add-ons, plug-ins, or other
extensions, such as TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A user at client system
 130 may enter a Uniform Resource Locator (URL) or other address directing
the web browser 132 to a particular server (such as server 162, or a server
associated with a third-party system 170), and the web browser 132 may
generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol (HTTP) request and communicate the
HTTP request to server. The server may accept the HTTP request and
communicate to client system 130 one or more Hyper Text Markup Language
(HTML) files responsive to the HTTP request. Client system 130 may render a
webpage based on the HTML files from the server for presentation to the user.
This disclosure contemplates any suitable webpage files. As an example and
not by way of limitation, webpages may render from HTML files, Extensible
Hyper Text Markup Language (XHTML) files, or Extensible Markup Language
(XML) files, according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts
such as, for example and without limitation, those written in JAVASCRIPT,

                                         9
JAVA, MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT, combinations of markup language and
scripts such as AJAX (Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML), and the like.
Herein, reference to a webpage encompasses one or more corresponding
webpage files (which a browser may use to render the webpage) and vice versa,
where appropriate.
[19]   In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may be a
network-addressable computing system that can host an online social network.
Social-networking system 160 may generate, store, receive, and transmit social
networking data, such as, for example, user-profile data, concept-profile data,
social-graph information, or other suitable data related to the online social
network. Social-networking system 160 may be accessed by the other
components of network environment 100 either directly or via network 110. In
particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may include one or
more servers 162. Each server 162 may be a unitary server or a distributed
server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers 162 may
be of various types, such as, for example and without limitation, web server,
news server, mail server, message server, advertising server, file server,
application server, exchange server, database server, proxy server, another
server suitable for performing functions or processes described herein, or any
combination thereof. In particular embodiments, each server 162 may include
hardware, software, or embedded logic components or a combination of two or
more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities
implemented or supported by server 162. In particular embodiments, social
networking system 164 may include one or more data stores 164. Data stores
 164 may be used to store various types of information. In particular
embodiments, the information stored in data stores 164 may be organized
according to specific data structures. In particular embodiments, each data store
 164 may be a relational database. Particular embodiments may provide
interfaces that enable a client system 130, a social-networking system 160, or a
third-party system 170 to manage, retrieve, modify, add, or delete, the
information stored in data store 164.

                                         10
[20]   In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may store one
or more social graphs in one or more data stores 164. In particular
embodiments, a social graph may include multiple nodes - which may include
multiple user nodes (each corresponding to a particular user) or multiple
concept nodes (each corresponding to a particular concept) - and multiple
edges connecting the nodes. Social-networking system 160 may provide users
of the online social network the ability to communicate and interact with other
users. In particular embodiments, users may join the online social network via
social-networking system 160 and then add connections (i.e., relationships) to a
number of other users of social-networking system 160 whom they want to be
connected to. Herein, the term "friend" may refer to any other user of social
networking system 160 with whom a user has formed a connection, association,
or relationship via social-networking system 160.
[21]   In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may provide
users with the ability to take actions on various types of items or objects,
supported by social-networking system 160. As an example and not by way of
limitation, the items and objects may include groups or social networks to
which users of social-networking system 160 may belong, events or calendar
entries in which a user might be interested, computer-based applications that a
user may use, transactions that allow users to buy or sell items via the service,
interactions with advertisements that a user may perform, or other suitable
items or objects. A user may interact with anything that is capable of being
represented in social-networking system 160 or by an external system of third
party system 170, which is separate from social-networking system 160 and
coupled to social-networking system 160 via a network 110.
[22]   In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may be capable
of linking a variety of entities. As an example and not by way of limitation,
social-networking system 160 may enable users to interact with each other as
well as receive content from third-party systems 170 or other entities, or to
allow users to interact with these entities through an application programming
interfaces (API) or other communication channels.

                                          11
[23]    In particular embodiments, a third-party system 170 may include one or
more types of servers, one or more data stores, one or more interfaces,
including but not limited to APIs, one or more web services, one or more
content sources, one or more networks, or any other suitable components, e.g.,
that servers may communicate with. A third-party system 170 may be operated
by a different entity from an entity operating social-networking system 160. In
particular embodiments, however, social-networking system 160 and third
party systems 170 may operate in conjunction with each other to provide
social-networking services to users of social-networking system 160 or third
party systems 170. In this sense, social-networking system 160 may provide a
platform, or backbone, which other systems, such as third-party systems 170,
may use to provide social-networking services and functionality to users across
the Internet.
[24]    In particular embodiments, a third-party system 170 may include a third
party content object provider. A third-party content object provider may
include one or more sources of content objects, which may be communicated to
a client system 130. As an example and not by way of limitation, content
objects may include information regarding things or activities of interest to the
user, such as, for example, movie show times, movie reviews, restaurant
reviews, restaurant menus, product information and reviews, or other suitable
information. As another example and not by way of limitation, content objects
may include incentive content objects, such as coupons, discount tickets, gift
certificates, or other suitable incentive objects.
[25]    In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 also includes
user-generated content objects, which may enhance a user's interactions with
social-networking system 160. User-generated content may include anything a
user can add, upload, send, or "post" to social-networking system 160. As an
example and not by way of limitation, a user communicates posts to social
networking system 160 from a client system 130. Posts may include data such
as status updates or other textual data, location information, photos, videos,
links, music or other similar data or media. Content may also be added to

                                         12
social-networking system 160 by a third-party through a "communication
channel," such as a newsfeed or stream.
[26]   In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may include a
variety of servers, sub-systems, programs, modules, logs, and data stores. In
particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may include one or
more of the following: a web server, action logger, API-request server,
relevance-and-ranking engine, content-object classifier, notification controller,
action log, third-party-content-object-exposure log, inference module,
authorization/privacy server, search module, ad-targeting module, user
interface module, user-profile store, connection store, third-party content store,
or location store. Social-networking system 160 may also include suitable
components such as network interfaces, security mechanisms, load balancers,
failover servers, management-and-network-operations consoles, other suitable
components, or any suitable combination thereof. In particular embodiments,
social-networking system 160 may include one or more user-profile stores for
storing user profiles. A user profile may include, for example, biographic
information, demographic information, behavioral information, social
information, or other types of descriptive information, such as work
experience, educational history, hobbies or preferences, interests, affinities, or
location. Interest information may include interests related to one or more
categories. Categories may be general or specific. As an example and not by
way of limitation, if a user "likes" an article about a brand of shoes the
category may be the brand, or the general category of "shoes" or "clothing." A
connection store may be used for storing connection information about users.
The connection information may indicate users who have similar or common
work experience, group memberships, hobbies, educational history, or are in
any way related or share common attributes. The connection information may
also include user-defined connections between different users and content (both
internal and external). A web server may be used for linking social-networking
system 160 to one or more client systems 130 or one or more third-party system
 170 via network 110. The web server may include a mail server or other
messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between social-

                                         13
networking system 160 and one or more client systems 130. An API-request
server may allow a third-party system 170 to access information from social
networking system 160 by calling one or more APIs. An action logger may be
used to receive communications from a web server about a user's actions on or
off social-networking system 160. In conjunction with the action log, a third
party-content-object log may be maintained of user exposures to third-party
content objects. A notification controller may provide information regarding
content objects to a client system 130. Information may be pushed to a client
system 130 as notifications, or information may be pulled from client system
130 responsive to a request received from client system 130. Authorization
servers may be used to enforce one or more privacy settings of the users of
social-networking system 160. A privacy setting of a user determines how
particular information associated with a user can be shared. The authorization
server may allow users to opt in or opt out of having their actions logged by
social-networking system 160 or shared with other systems (e.g., third-party
system 170), such as, for example, by setting appropriate privacy settings.
Third-party-content-object stores may be used to store content objects received
from third parties, such as a third-party system 170. Location stores may be
used for storing location information received from client systems 130
associated with users. Ad-pricing modules may combine social information, the
current time, location information, or other suitable information to provide
relevant advertisements, in the form of notifications, to a user.
Social Graphs
[27]   FIG. 2 illustrates example social graph 200. In particular embodiments,
social-networking system 160 may store one or more social graphs 200 in one
or more data stores. In particular embodiments, social graph 200 may include
multiple nodes - which may include multiple user nodes 202 or multiple
concept nodes 204 - and multiple edges 206 connecting the nodes. Example
social graph 200 illustrated in FIG. 2 is shown, for didactic purposes, in a two
dimensional visual map representation. In particular embodiments, a social
networking system 160, client system 130, or third-party system 170 may

                                         14
access social graph 200 and related social-graph information for suitable
applications. The nodes and edges of social graph 200 may be stored as data
objects, for example, in a data store (such as a social-graph database). Such a
data store may include one or more searchable or queryable indexes of nodes or
edges of social graph 200.
[28]   In particular embodiments, a user node 202 may correspond to a user of
social-networking system 160. As an example and not by way of limitation, a
user may be an individual (human user), an entity (e.g., an enterprise, business,
or third-party application), or a group (e.g., of individuals or entities) that
interacts or communicates with or over social-networking system 160. In
particular embodiments, when a user registers for an account with social
networking system 160, social-networking system 160 may create a user node
202 corresponding to the user, and store the user node 202 in one or more data
stores. Users and user nodes 202 described herein may, where appropriate, refer
to registered users and user nodes 202 associated with registered users. In
addition or as an alternative, users and user nodes 202 described herein may,
where appropriate, refer to users that have not registered with social
networking system 160. In particular embodiments, a user node 202 may be
associated with information provided by a user or information gathered by
various systems, including social-networking system 160. As an example and
not by way of limitation, a user may provide his or her name, profile picture,
contact information, birth date, sex, marital status, family status, employment,
education background, preferences, interests, or other demographic
information. In particular embodiments, a user node 202 may be associated
with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with a
user. In particular embodiments, a user node 202 may correspond to one or
more webpages.
[29]   In particular embodiments, a concept node 204 may correspond to a
concept. As an example and not by way of limitation, a concept may
correspond to a place (such as, for example, a movie theater, restaurant,
landmark, or city); a website (such as, for example, a website associated with
social-network system 160 or a third-party website associated with a web-

                                            15
application server); an entity (such as, for example, a person, business, group,
sports team, or celebrity); a resource (such as, for example, an audio file, video
file., digital photo, text file, structured document, or application) which may be
located within social-networking system 160 or on an external server, such as a
web-application server; real or intellectual property (such as, for example, a
sculpture, painting, movie, game, song, idea, photograph, or written work); a
game; an activity; an idea or theory; another suitable concept; or two or more
such concepts. A concept node 204 may be associated with information of a
concept provided by a user or information gathered by various systems,
including social-networking system 160. As an example and not by way of
limitation, information of a concept may include a name or a title; one or more
images (e.g., an image of the cover page of a book); a location (e.g., an address
or a geographical location); a website (which may be associated with a URL);
contact information (e.g., a phone number or an email address); other suitable
concept information; or any suitable combination of such information. In
particular embodiments, a concept node 204 may be associated with one or
more data objects corresponding to information associated with concept node
204. In particular embodiments, a concept node 204 may correspond to one or
more webpages.
[30]     In particular embodiments, a node in social graph 200 may represent or
be represented by a webpage (which may be referred to as a "profile page").
Profile pages may be hosted by or accessible to social-networking system 160.
Profile pages may also be hosted on third-party websites associated with a
third-party server 170. As an example and not by way of limitation, a profile
page corresponding to a particular external webpage may be the particular
external webpage and the profile page may correspond to a particular concept
node 204. Profile pages may be viewable by all or a selected subset of other
users. As an example and not by way of limitation, a user node 202 may have a
corresponding user-profile page in which the corresponding user may add
content, make declarations, or otherwise express himself or herself. As another
example and not by way of limitation, a concept node 204 may have a
corresponding concept-profile page in which one or more users may add

                                         16
content, make declarations, or express themselves, particularly in relation to
the concept corresponding to concept node 204.
[31]    In particular embodiments, a concept node 204 may represent a third
party webpage or resource hosted by a third-party system 170. The third-party
webpage or resource may include, among other elements, content, a selectable
or other icon, or other inter-actable object (which may be implemented, for
example, in JavaScript, AJAX, or PHP codes) representing an action or
activity. As an example and not by way of limitation, a third-party webpage
may include a selectable icon such as "like," "check in," "eat," "recommend,"
or another suitable action or activity. A user viewing the third-party webpage
may perform an action by selecting one of the icons (e.g., "eat"), causing a
client system 130 to transmit to social-networking system 160 a message
indicating the user's action. In response to the message. social-networking
system 160 may create an edge (e.g., an "eat" edge) between a user node 202
corresponding to the user and a concept node 204 corresponding to the third
party webpage or resource and store edge 206 in one or more data stores.
[32]    In particular embodiments, a pair of nodes in social graph 200 may be
connected to each other by one or more edges 206. An edge 206 connecting a
pair of nodes may represent a relationship between the pair of nodes. In
particular embodiments, an edge 206 may include or represent one or more data
objects or attributes corresponding to the relationship between a pair of nodes.
As an example and not by way of limitation, a first user may indicate that a
second user is a "friend" of the first user. In response to this indication, social
networking system 160 may transmit a "friend request" to the second user. If
the second user confirms the "friend request," social-networking system 160
may create an edge 206 connecting the first user's user node 202 to the second
user's user node 202 in social graph 200 and store edge 206 as social-graph
information in one or more of data stores 24. In the example of FIG. 2, social
graph 200 includes an edge 206 indicating a friend relation between user nodes
202 of user "A" and user "B" and an edge indicating a friend relation between
user nodes 202 of user "C" and user "B." Although this disclosure describes or
illustrates particular edges 206 with particular attributes connecting particular

                                         17
user nodes 202, this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges 206 with any
suitable attributes connecting user nodes 202. As an example and not by way of
limitation, an edge 206 may represent a friendship, family relationship,
business or employment relationship, fan relationship, follower relationship,
visitor relationship, subscriber relationship, superior/subordinate relationship,
reciprocal relationship, non-reciprocal relationship, another suitable type of
relationship, or two or more such relationships. Moreover, although this
disclosure generally describes nodes as being connected, this disclosure also
describes users or concepts as being connected. Herein, references to users or
concepts being connected may, where appropriate, refer to the nodes
corresponding to those users or concepts being connected in social graph 200
by one or more edges 206.
[33]    In particular embodiments, an edge 206 between a user node 202 and a
concept node 204 may represent a particular action or activity performed by a
user associated with user node 202 toward a concept associated with a concept
node 204. As an example and not by way of limitation, as illustrated in FIG. 2,
a user may "like," "attended," "played," "listened," "cooked," "worked at," or
"watched" a concept, each of which may correspond to a edge type or subtype.
A concept-profile page corresponding to a concept node 204 may include, for
example, a selectable "check in" icon (such as, for example, a clickable "check
in" icon) or a selectable "add to favorites" icon. Similarly, after a user clicks
these icons, social-networking system 160 may create a "favorite" edge or a
"check in" edge in response to a user's action corresponding to a respective
action. As another example and not by way of limitation, a user (user "C") may
listen to a particular song ("Imagine") using a particular application
(SPOTIFY, which is an online music application). In this case, social
networking system 160 may create a "listened" edge 206 and a "used" edge (as
illustrated in FIG. 2) between user nodes 202 corresponding to the user and
concept nodes 204 corresponding to the song and application to indicate that
the user listened to the song and used the application. Moreover, social
networking system 160 may create a "played" edge 206 (as illustrated in FIG.
2) between concept nodes 204 corresponding to the song and the application to

                                         18
indicate that the particular song was played by the particular application. In
this case, "played" edge 206 corresponds to an action performed by an external
application (SPOTIFY) on an external audio file (the song "Imagine").
Although this disclosure describes particular edges 206 with particular
attributes connecting user nodes 202 and concept nodes 204, this disclosure
contemplates any suitable edges 206 with any suitable attributes connecting
user nodes 202 and concept nodes 204. Moreover, although this disclosure
describes edges between a user node 202 and a concept node 204 representing a
single relationship, this disclosure contemplates edges between a user node 202
and a concept node 204 representing one or more relationships. As an example
and not by way of limitation, an edge 206 may represent both that a user likes
and has used at a particular concept. Alternatively, another edge 206 may
represent each type of relationship (or multiples of a single relationship)
between a user node 202 and a concept node 204 (as illustrated in FIG. 2
between user node 202 for user "E" and concept node 204 for "SPOTIFY").
[34]    In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may create an
edge 206 between a user node 202 and a concept node 204 in social graph 200.
As an example and not by way of limitation, a user viewing a concept-profile
page (such as, for example, by using a web browser or a special-purpose
application hosted by the user's client system 130) may indicate that he or she
likes the concept represented by the concept node 204 by clicking or selecting a
"Like" icon, which may cause the user's client system 130 to transmit to social
networking system 160 a message indicating the user's liking of the concept
associated with the concept-profile page. In response to the message, social
networking system 160 may create an edge 206 between user node 202
associated with the user and concept node 204, as illustrated by "like" edge 206
between the user and concept node 204. In particular embodiments, social
networking system 160 may store an edge 206 in one or more data stores. In
particular embodiments, an edge 206 may be automatically formed by social
networking system 160 in response to a particular user action. As an example
and not by way of limitation, if a first user uploads a picture, watches a movie,
or listens to a song, an edge 206 may be formed between user node 202

                                         19
corresponding to the first user and concept nodes 204 corresponding to those
concepts. Although this disclosure describes forming particular edges 206 in
particular manners, this disclosure contemplates forming any suitable edges
206 in any suitable manner.
Advertising
[35]   In particular embodiments, an advertisement may be text (which may be
HTML-linked), one or more images (which may be HTML-linked), one or more
videos, audio, one or more ADOBE FLASH files, a suitable combination of
these, or any other suitable advertisement in any suitable digital format
presented on one or more webpages, in one or more e-mails, or in connection
with search results requested by a user). In addition or as an alternative, an
advertisement may be one or more sponsored stories (e.g. a news-feed or ticker
item on social-networking system 160). A sponsored story may be a social
action by a user (such as "liking" a page, "liking" or commenting on a post on
a page, RSVPing to an event associated with a page, voting on a question
posted on a page, checking in to a place, using an application or playing a
game, or "liking" or sharing a website) that an advertiser promotes by, for
example, having the social action presented within a pre-determined area of a
profile page of a user or other page, presented with additional information
associated with the advertiser, bumped up or otherwise highlighted within news
feeds or tickers of other users, or otherwise promoted. The advertiser may pay
to have the social action promoted.
[36]   In particular embodiments, an advertisement may be requested for
display within social-networking-system webpages, third-party webpages, or
other pages. An advertisement may be displayed in a dedicated portion of a
page, such as in a banner area at the top of the page, in a column at the side of
the page, in a GUI of the page, in a pop-up window, in a drop-down menu, in
an input field of the page, over the top of content of the page, or elsewhere
with respect to the page. In addition or as an alternative, an advertisement may
be displayed within an application. An advertisement may be displayed within
dedicated pages, requiring the user to interact with or watch the advertisement

                                         20
before the user may access a page or utilize an application. The user may, for
example view the advertisement through a web browser.
[37]    A user may interact with an advertisement in any suitable manner. The
user may click or otherwise select the advertisement. By selecting the
advertisement, the user may be directed to (or a browser or other application
being used by the user) a page associated with the advertisement. At the page
associated with the advertisement, the user may take additional actions, such as
purchasing a product or service associated with the advertisement, receiving
information associated with the advertisement, or subscribing to a newsletter
associated with the advertisement. An advertisement with audio or video may
be played by selecting a component of the advertisement (like a "play button").
Alternatively, by selecting the advertisement, the social-networking system 160
may execute or modify a particular action of the user. As an example and not
by way of limitation, advertisements may be included among the search results
of a search-results page, where sponsored content is promoted over non
sponsored content. As another example and not by way of limitation,
advertisements may be included among suggested search query, where
suggested queries that reference the advertiser or its content/products may be
promoted over non-sponsored queries.
[38]    An advertisement may include social-networking-system functionality
that a user may interact with. For example, an advertisement may enable a user
to "like" or otherwise endorse the advertisement by selecting an icon or link
associated with endorsement. As another example, an advertisement may enable
a user to search (e.g., by executing a query) for content related to the
advertiser. Similarly, a user may share the advertisement with another user
(e.g. through social-networking system 160) or RSVP (e.g. through social
networking system 160) to an event associated with the advertisement. In
addition or as an alternative, an advertisement may include social-networking
system context directed to the user. For example, an advertisement may display
information about a friend of the user within social-networking system 160 who
has taken an action associated with the subject matter of the advertisement.

                                         21
Typeahead Processes
[39]   In particular embodiments, one or more client-side and/or backend
(server-side) processes may implement and utilize a "typeahead" feature that
may automatically attempt to match social-graph elements (e.g., user nodes
202, concept nodes 204, or edges 206) to information currently being entered
by a user in an input form rendered in conjunction with a requested webpage
(such as, for example, a user-profile page, a concept-profile page, a search
results webpage, or another suitable page of the online social network), which
may be hosted by or accessible in the social-networking system 160. In
particular embodiments, as a user is entering text to make a declaration, the
typeahead feature may attempt to match the string of textual characters being
entered in the declaration to strings of characters (e.g., names, descriptions)
corresponding to user, concepts, or edges and their corresponding elements in
the social graph 200. In particular embodiments, when a match is found, the
typeahead feature may automatically populate the form with a reference to the
social-graph element (such as, for example, the node name/type, node ID, edge
name/type, edge ID, or another suitable reference or identifier) of the existing
social-graph element.
[40]   In particular embodiments, as a user types or otherwise enters text into a
form used to add content or make declarations in various sections of the user's
profile page, home page, or other page, the typeahead process may work in
conjunction with one or more frontend (client-side) and/or backend (server
side) typeahead processes (hereinafter referred to simply as "typeahead
process") executing at (or within) the social-networking system 160 (e.g.,
within servers 162), to interactively and virtually instantaneously (as appearing
to the user) attempt to auto-populate the form with a term or terms
corresponding to names of existing social-graph elements, or terms associated
with existing social-graph elements, determined to be the most relevant or best
match to the characters of text entered by the user as the user enters the
characters of text. Utilizing the social-graph information in a social-graph
database or information extracted and indexed from the social-graph database,
including information associated with nodes and edges, the typeahead

                                         22
processes, in conjunction with the information from the social-graph database,
as well as potentially in conjunction with various others processes,
applications, or databases located within or executing within social-networking
system 160, may be able to predict a user's intended declaration with a high
degree of precision. However, the social-networking system 160 can also
provides user's with the freedom to enter essentially any declaration they wish,
enabling users to express themselves freely.
[41]   In particular embodiments, as a user enters text characters into a form
box or other field, the typeahead processes may attempt to identify existing
social-graph elements (e.g., user nodes 202, concept nodes 204, or edges 206)
that match the string of characters entered in the user's declaration as the user
is entering the characters. In particular embodiments, as the user enters
characters into a form box, the typeahead process may read the string of
entered textual characters. As each keystroke is made, the frontend-typeahead
process may transmit the entered character string as a request (or call) to the
backend-typeahead process executing within social-networking system 160. In
particular embodiments, the typeahead processes may communicate via AJAX
(Asynchronous JavaScript and XML) or other suitable techniques, and
particularly, asynchronous techniques. In particular embodiments, the request
may be, or comprise, an XMLHTTPRequest (XHR) enabling quick and dynamic
sending and fetching of results. In particular embodiments, the typeahead
process may also transmit before, after, or with the request a section identifier
(section ID) that identifies the particular section of the particular page in which
the user is making the declaration. In particular embodiments, a user ID
parameter may also be sent, but this may be unnecessary in some embodiments,
as the user may already be "known" based on the user having logged into (or
otherwise been authenticated by) the social-networking system 160.
[42]   In particular embodiments, the typeahead process may use one or more
matching algorithms to attempt to identify matching social-graph elements. In
particular embodiments, when a match or matches are found, the typeahead
process may transmit a response (which may utilize AJAX or other suitable
techniques) to the user's client system 130 that may include, for example, the

                                        23
names (name strings) or descriptions of the matching social-graph elements as
well as, potentially, other metadata associated with the matching social-graph
elements. As an example and not by way of limitation, if a user entering the
characters "pok" into a query field, the typeahead process may display a drop
down menu that displays names of matching existing profile pages and
respective user nodes 202 or concept nodes 204, such as a profile page named
or devoted to "poker" or "pokemon", which the user can then click on or
otherwise select thereby confirming the desire to declare the matched user or
concept name corresponding to the selected node. As another example and not
by way of limitation, upon clicking "poker," the typeahead process may auto
populate, or causes the web browser 132 to auto-populate, the query field with
the declaration "poker". In particular embodiments, the typeahead process may
simply auto-populate the field with the name or other identifier of the top
ranked match rather than display a drop-down menu. The user may then
confirm the auto-populated declaration simply by keying "enter" on his or her
keyboard or by clicking on the auto-populated declaration.
[43]   More information on typeahead processes may be found in U.S. Patent
Application No. 12/763162, filed 19 April 2010, and U.S. Patent Application
No. 13/556072, filed 23 July 2012, which are incorporated by reference.
Structured Search Queries
[44]   FIG. 3 illustrates an example webpage of an online social network. In
particular embodiments, a user may submit a query to the social-network
system 160 by inputting text into query field 350. A user of an online social
network may search for information relating to a specific subject matter (e.g.,
users, concepts, external content or resource) by providing a short phrase
describing the subject matter, often referred to as a "search query," to a search
engine. The query may be an unstructured text query and may comprise one or
more text strings (which may include one or more n-grams). In general, a user
may input any character string into query field 350 to search for content on the
social-networking system 160 that matches the text query. The social
networking system 160 may then search a data store 164 (or, in particular, a

                                         24
social-graph database) to identify content matching the query. The search
engine may conduct a search based on the query phrase using various search
algorithms and generate search results that identify resources or content (e.g.,
user-profile pages, content-profile pages, or external resources) that are most
likely to be related to the search query. To conduct a search, a user may input
or transmit a search query to the search engine. In response, the search engine
may identify one or more resources that are likely to be related to the search
query, each of which may individually be referred to as a "search result," or
collectively be referred to as the "search results" corresponding to the search
query. The identified content may include, for example, social-graph elements
(i.e., user nodes 202, concept nodes 204, edges 206), profile pages, external
webpages, or any combination thereof. The social-networking system 160 may
then generate a search-results webpage with search results corresponding to the
identified content and transmit the search-results webpage to the user. The
search results may be presented to the user, often in the form of a list of links
on the search-results webpage, each link being associated with a different
webpage that contains some of the identified resources or content. In particular
embodiments, each link in the search results may be in the form of a Uniform
Resource Locator (URL) that specifies where the corresponding webpage is
located and the mechanism for retrieving it. The social-networking system 160
may then transmit the search-results webpage to the web browser 132 on the
user's client system 130. The user may then click on the URL links or
otherwise select the content from the search-results webpage to access the
content from the social-networking system 160 or from an external system
(such as, for example, a third-party system 170), as appropriate. The resources
may be ranked and presented to the user according to their relative degrees of
relevance to the search query. The search results may also be ranked and
presented to the user according to their relative degree of relevance to the user.
In other words, the search results may be personalized for the querying user
based on, for example, social-graph information, user information, search or
browsing history of the user, or other suitable information related to the user.
In particular embodiments, ranking of the resources may be determined by a

                                         25
ranking algorithm implemented by the search engine. As an example and not by
way of limitation, resources that are more relevant to the search query or to the
user may be ranked higher than the resources that are less relevant to the search
query or the user. In particular embodiments, the search engine may limit its
search to resources and content on the online social network. However, in
particular embodiments, the search engine may also search for resources or
contents on other sources, such as a third-party system 170, the internet or
World Wide Web, or other suitable sources. Although this disclosure describes
querying the social-networking system 160 in a particular manner, this
disclosure contemplates querying the social-networking system 160 in any
suitable manner.
[45]   In particular embodiments, the typeahead processes described herein may
be applied to search queries entered by a user. As an example and not by way
of limitation, as a user enters text characters into a search field, a typeahead
process may attempt to identify one or more user nodes 202, concept nodes
204, or edges 206 that match the string of characters entered search field as the
user is entering the characters. As the typeahead process receives requests or
calls including a string or n-gram from the text query, the typeahead process
may perform or causes to be performed a search to identify existing social
graph elements (i.e., user nodes 202, concept nodes 204, edges 206) having
respective names, types, categories, or other identifiers matching the entered
text. The typeahead process may use one or more matching algorithms to
attempt to identify matching nodes or edges. When a match or matches are
found, the typeahead process may transmit a response to the user's client
system 130 that may include, for example, the names (name strings) of the
matching nodes as well as, potentially, other metadata associated with the
matching nodes. The typeahead process may then display a drop-down menu
300 that displays names of matching existing profile pages and respective user
nodes 202 or concept nodes 204, and displays names of matching edges 206
that may connect to the matching user nodes 202 or concept nodes 204, which
the user can then click on or otherwise select thereby confirming the desire to
search for the matched user or concept name corresponding to the selected

                                          26
node, or to search for users or concepts connected to the matched users or
concepts by the matching edges. Alternatively, the typeahead process may
simply auto-populate the form with the name or other identifier of the top
ranked match rather than display a drop-down menu 300. The user may then
confirm the auto-populated declaration simply by keying "enter" on a keyboard
or by clicking on the auto-populated declaration. Upon user confirmation of the
matching nodes and edges, the typeahead process may transmit a request that
informs the social-networking system 160 of the user's confirmation of a query
containing the matching social-graph elements. In response to the request
transmitted, the social-networking system 160 may automatically (or
alternately based on an instruction in the request) call or otherwise search a
social-graph database for the matching social-graph elements, or for social
graph elements connected to the matching social-graph elements as appropriate.
Although this disclosure describes applying the typeahead processes to search
queries in a particular manner, this disclosure contemplates applying the
typeahead processes to search queries in any suitable manner.
[46]    In connection with search queries and search results, particular
embodiments may utilize one or more systems, components, elements,
functions, methods, operations, or steps disclosed in U.S. Patent Application
No. 11/503093, filed 11 August 2006, U.S. Patent Application No. 12/977027,
filed 22 December 2010, and U.S. Patent Application No. 12/978265, filed 23
December 2010, which are incorporated by reference.
Natural-LanguageRendering of Structured Search Queries
[47]    FIGs. 4A-4B illustrate example queries of the social network. In
particular embodiments, in response to a text query received from a first user
(i.e., the querying user), the social-networking system 160 may generate one or
more structured queries rendered in a natural-language syntax, where each
structured query includes query tokens that correspond to one or more
identified social-graph elements. FIGs. 4A-4B illustrate various example text
queries in query field 350 and various structured queries generated in response
in drop-down menus 300. By providing suggested structured queries in

                                         27
response to a user's text query, the social-networking system 160 may provide
a powerful way for users of the online social network to search for elements
represented in the social graph 200 based on their social-graph attributes and
their relation to various social-graph elements. Structured queries may allow a
querying user to search for content that is connected to particular users or
concepts in the social graph 200 by particular edge types. As an example and
not by way of limitation, the social-networking system 160 may receive an
unstructured text query from a first user. In response, the social-networking
system 160 (via, for example, a server-side element detection process) may
access the social graph 200 and then parse the text query to identify social
graph elements that corresponded to n-grams from the text query. The social
networking system 160 may then access a grammar model, such as a context
free grammar model, which includes a plurality of grammars. These grammars
may be visualized as a grammar forest that is organized as an ordered tree with
a plurality of non-terminal and terminal tokens. The identified social-graph
elements may be used as terminal tokens ("query tokens") in the grammars.
Once these terminal tokens have been identified (for example, by using a
semantic tree that corresponds to the text query from the user), the social
networking system 160 may traverse the grammar forest to identify intersecting
non-terminal nodes. Each grammar represented by one of these intersecting
non-terminal nodes may then be selected. The selected grammars may then be
used to generate one or more structured queries that include the query tokens
referencing the identified social-graph elements. These structured queries may
be based on strings generated by the grammars, such that they are rendered
with references to the appropriate social-graph elements using a natural
language syntax. The structured queries may be transmitted to the first user and
displayed in a drop-down menu 300 (via, for example, a client-side typeahead
process), where the first user can then select an appropriate query to search for
the desired content. Some of the advantages of using the structured queries
described herein include finding users of the online social network based upon
limited information, bringing together virtual indexes of content from the
online social network based on the relation of that content to various social-

                                         28
graph elements, or finding content related to you and/or your friends. By using
this process, the output of the natural-language rendering process may be
efficiently parsed, for example, to generate modified or alternative structured
queries. Furthermore, since the rules used by this process are derived from the
grammar model, any modification to the rules of the grammar model can be
immediately reflected in the rendering process. Although this disclosure
describes and FIGs. 4A-4B illustrate generating particular structured queries in
a particular manner, this disclosure contemplates generating any suitable
structured queries in any suitable manner.
[48]    In particular embodiments, the social-networking system 160 may
receive from a querying/first user (corresponding to a first user node 202) an
unstructured text query. As an example and not by way of limitation, a first
user may want to search for other users who: (1) are first-degree friends of the
first user; and (2) are associated with Stanford University (i.e., the user nodes
202 are connected by an edge 206 to the concept node 204 corresponding to the
school "Stanford"). The first user may then enter a text query "friends
stanford" into query field 350, as illustrated in FIGs. 4A-4B. As the first user
enters this text query into query field 350, the social-networking system 160
may provide various suggested structured queries, as illustrated in drop-down
menus 300. As used herein, an unstructured text query refers to a simple text
string inputted by a user. The text query may, of course, be structured with
respect to standard language/grammar rules (e.g. English language grammar).
However, the text query will ordinarily be unstructured with respect to social
graph elements. In other words, a simple text query will not ordinarily include
embedded references to particular social-graph elements. Thus, as used herein,
a structured query refers to a query that contains references to particular social
graph elements, allowing the search engine to search based on the identified
elements. Furthermore, the text query may be unstructured with respect to
formal query syntax. In other words, a simple text query will not necessarily be
in the format of a query command that is directly executable by a search
engine. Although this disclosure describes receiving particular queries in a

                                          29
particular manner, this disclosure contemplates receiving any suitable queries
in any suitable manner.
[49]    In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may parse the
unstructured text query (also simply referred to as a search query) received
from the first user (i.e., the querying user) to identify one or more n-grams. In
general, an n-gram is a contiguous sequence of n items from a given sequence
of text or speech. The items may be characters, phonemes, syllables, letters,
words, base pairs, prefixes, or other identifiable items from the sequence of
text or speech. The n-gram may comprise one or more characters of text
(letters, numbers, punctuation, etc.) entered by the querying user. An n-gram of
size one can be referred to as a "unigram," of size two can be referred to as a
"bigram" or "digram," of size three can be referred to as a "trigram," and so on.
Each n-gram may include one or more parts from the text query received from
the querying user. In particular embodiments, each n-gram may comprise a
character string (e.g., one or more characters of text) entered by the first user.
As an example and not by way of limitation, the social-networking system 160
may parse the text query "friends stanford" to identify the following n-grams:
friends; stanford; friends stanford. As another example and not by way of
limitation, the social-networking system 160 may parse the text query "friends
in palo alto" to identify the following n-grams: friends; in; palo; alto; friends
in; in palo; palo alto; friend in palo; in palo also; friends in palo alto. In
particular embodiments, each n-gram may comprise a contiguous sequence of n1
items from the text query. Although this disclosure describes parsing particular
queries in a particular manner, this disclosure contemplates parsing any
suitable queries in any suitable manner.
[50]    In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may determine
or calculate, for each n-gram identified in the text query, a score that the n
gram corresponds to a social-graph element. The score may be, for example, a
confidence score, a probability, a quality, a ranking, another suitable type of
score, or any combination thereof. As an example and not by way of limitation,
the social-networking system 160 may determine a probability score (also
referred to simply as a "probability") that the n-gram corresponds to a social-

                                          30
graph element, such as a user node 202, a concept node 204, or an edge 206 of
social graph 200. The probability score may indicate the level of similarity or
relevance between the n-gram and a particular social-graph element. There may
be many different ways to calculate the probability. The present disclosure
contemplates any suitable method to calculate a probability score for an n-gram
identified in a search query. In particular embodiments, the social-networking
system 160 may determine a probability, p, that an n-gram corresponds to a
particular social-graph element. The probability, p, may be calculated as the
probability of corresponding to a particular social-graph element, k, given a
particular search query, X. In other words, the probability may be calculated
as p =(kLX). As an example and not by way of limitation, a probability that an
n-gram corresponds to a social-graph element may calculated as an probability
score denoted as pk.     The input may be a text query X = (x,,x",.,x),N)
set of classes. For each (i: j) and a class k, the social-networking system 160
may compute     Pijk  p(class(x  j)=kX). As an example and not by way of
limitation, the n-gram "stanford" could be scored with respect to the following
social-graph elements as follows: school "Stanford University" = 0.7; location
"Stanford, California" = 0.2; user "Allen Stanford" = 0.1. As another example
and not by way of limitation, the n-gram "friends" could be scored with respect
to the following social-graph elements as follows: user "friends" = 0.9;
television show "Friends" = 0.1. In particular embodiments, the social
networking system 160 may user a forward-backward algorithm to determine
the probability that a particular n-gram corresponds to a particular social-graph
element. For a given n-gram within a text query, the social-networking system
 160 may use both the preceding and succeeding n-grams to determine which
particular social-graph elements correspond to the given n-gram. In particular
embodiments, the identified social-graph elements may be used to generate a
query command that is executable by a search engine. The query command may
be a structured semantic query with defined functions that accept specific
arguments. As an example and not by way of limitation, the text query "friend
me mark" could be parsed to form the query command: intersect (friend(ine),

                                         31
friend(Mark)). In other words, the query is looking for nodes in the social
graph that intersect the querying user ("me") and the user "Mark" (i.e., those
user nodes 202 that are connected to both the user node 202 of the querying
user by a friend-type edge 206 and the user node 202 for the user "Mark" by a
friend-type edge 206). Although this disclosure describes determining whether
n-grams correspond to social-graph elements in a particular manner, this
disclosure contemplates determining whether n-grams correspond to social
graph elements in any suitable manner. Moreover, although this disclosure
describes determining whether an n-gram corresponds to a social-graph element
using a particular type of score, this disclosure contemplates determining
whether an n-gram corresponds to a social-graph element using any suitable
type of score.
[51]   In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may identify
one or more edges 206 having a probability greater than an edge-threshold
probability. Each of the identified edges 206 may correspond to at least one of
the n-grams. As an example and not by way of limitation, the n-gram may only
be identified as corresponding to an edge, k, if pijk > p'tI_,,1,,,, Furthermore,
each of the identified edges 206 may be connected to at least one of the
identified nodes. In other words, the social-networking system 160 may only
identify edges 206 or edge-types that are connected to user nodes 202 or
concept nodes 204 that have previously been identified as corresponding to a
particular n-gram. Edges 206 or edge-types that are not connected to any
previously identified node are typically unlikely to correspond to a particular
n-gram in a search query. By filtering out or ignoring these edges 206 and
edge-types, the social-networking system 160 may more efficiently search the
social graph 200 for relevant social-graph elements. As an example and not by
way of limitation, referencing FIG. 2, for a text query containing "went to
Stanford," where an identified concept node 204 is the school "Stanford," the
social-networking system 160 may identify the edges 206 corresponding to
"worked at" and the edges 206 corresponding to "attended," both of which are
connected to the concept node 204 for "Stanford." Thus, the n-gram "went to"
may be identified as corresponding to these edges 206. However, for the same

                                         32
text query, the social-networking system 160 may not identify the edges 206
corresponding to "like" or "fan" in the social graph 200 because the "Stanford"
node does not have any such edges connected to it. Although this disclosure
describes identifying edges 206 that correspond to n-grams in a particular
manner, this disclosure contemplates identifying edges 206 that correspond to
n-grams in any suitable manner.
[52]    In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may identify
one or more user nodes 202 or concept nodes 204 having a probability greater
than a node-threshold probability. Each of the identified nodes may correspond
to at least one of the n-grams. As an example and not by way of limitation, the
n-gram may only be identified as corresponding to a node, k, if
 Pijk > Pnod-,hrshoP Furthermore, each of the identified user nodes 202 or concept
nodes 204 may be connected to at least one of the identified edges 206. In other
words, the social-networking system 160 may only identify nodes or nodes
types that are connected to edges 206 that have previously been identified as
corresponding to a particular n-gram. Nodes or node-types that are not
connected to any previously identified edges 206 are typically unlikely to
correspond to a particular n-gram in a search query. By filtering out or ignoring
these nodes and node-types, the social-networking system 160 may more
efficiently search the social graph 200 for relevant social-graph elements. As
an example and not by way of limitation, for a text query containing "worked at
Apple," where an identified edge 206 is "worked at," the social-networking
system 160 may identify the concept node 204 corresponding to the company
APPLE, INC., which may have multiple edges 206 of "worked at" connected to
it. However, for the same text query, the social-networking system 160 may not
identify the concept node 204 corresponding to the fruit-type "apple," which
may have multiple "like" or "fan" edges connected to it, but no "worked at"
edge connections. In particular embodiments, the node-threshold probability
may differ for user nodes 202 and concept nodes 204, and may differ even
among these nodes (e.g., some concept nodes 204 may have different node
threshold probabilities than other concept nodes 204). As an example and not
by way of limitation, an n-gram may be identified as corresponding to a user

                                             33
node 302, kl,    if p   > Puser-node-tresh,, while an n-gram may be identified as
corresponding to a concept node 304, k,,,,p I if Pij.k    > Pconcept-node-thresd . In
particular embodiments, the social-networking system 160 may only identify
nodes that are within a threshold degree of separation of the user node 202
corresponding to the first user (i.e., the querying user). The threshold degree of
separation may be, for example, one, two, three, or all. Although this disclosure
describes identifying nodes that correspond to n-grams in a particular manner,
this disclosure contemplates identifying nodes that correspond to n-grams in
any suitable manner.
[53]   In particular embodiments, the social-networking system 160 may access
a context-free grammar model comprising a plurality of grammars. Each
grammar of the grammar model may comprise one or more non-terminal tokens
(or "non-terminal symbols") and one or more terminal tokens (or "terminal
symbols"/"query tokens"), where particular non-terminal tokens may be
replaced by terminal tokens. A grammar model is a set of formation rules for
strings in a formal language. In particular embodiments, the plurality of
grammars may be visualized as a grammar forest organized as an ordered tree,
with the internal nodes corresponding to non-terminal tokens and the leaf nodes
corresponding to terminal tokens. Each grammar may be represented as a sub
tree within the grammar forest, where the grammars are adjoining each other
via non-terminal tokens. Thus, two or more grammars may be a sub-forest
within the grammar forest. Although this disclosure describes accessing
particular grammars, this disclosure contemplates any suitable grammars.
[54]   In particular embodiments, the social-networking system 160 may
generate one or more strings using one or more grammars. To generate a string
in the language, one begins with a string consisting of only a single start
symbol. The production rules are then applied in any order, until a string that
contains neither the start symbol nor designated non-terminal symbols is
produced. In a context-free grammar, the production of each non-terminal
symbol of the grammar is independent of what is produced by other non
terminal symbols of the grammar. The non-terminal symbols may be replaced
with terminal symbols (i.e., terminal tokens or query tokens). Some of the

                                         34
query tokens may correspond to identified nodes or identified edges, as
described previously. A string generated by the grammar may then be used as
the basis for a structured query containing references to the identified nodes or
identified edges. The string generated by the grammar may be rendered in a
natural-language syntax, such that a structured query based on the string is also
rendered in natural language. A context-free grammar is a grammar in which
the left-hand side of each production rule consists of only a single non-terminal
symbol. A probabilistic context-free grammar is a tuple (E,N,S,P), where the
disjoint sets E and N specify the terminal and non-terminal symbols,
respectively, with Se N being the start symbol. P is the set of productions,
which take the form E-+(p), with Ee N, Je (EuN)+, and p=Pr(E-+J), the
probability that E will be expanded into the string J. The sum of probabilities
 p over all expansions of a given non-terminal E must be one. Although this
disclosure describes generating strings in a particular manner, this disclosure
contemplates generating strings in any suitable manner.
[55]   In particular embodiments, the social-networking system 160 may
identify one or more query tokens corresponding to the previously identified
nodes and edges. In other words, if an identified node or identified edge may be
used as a query token in a particular grammar, that query token may be
identified by the social-networking system 160. As an example and not by way
of limitation, an example grammar may be: [user][user-filter][school]. The non
terminal symbols [user], [user-filter], and [school] could then be determined
based n-grams in the received text query. For the text query "friends stanford",
this query could be parsed by using the grammar as, for example,
"[friends][who go to][Stanford University]" or "[friends][who work
at][Stanford University]". As another example and not by way of limitation, an
example grammar may be [user] [user-filter] [location]. For the text query
"friends stanford", this query could be parsed by using the grammar as, for
example, "[friends][who live in][Stanford, California]". In both the example
cases above, if the n-grams of the received text query could be used as query
tokens, then these query tokens may be identified by the social-networking

                                         35
system 160. Although this disclosure describes identifying particular query
tokens in a particular manner, this disclosure contemplates identifying any
suitable query tokens in any suitable manner.
[56]    In particular embodiments, the social-networking system 160 may select
one or more grammars having at least one query token corresponding to each of
the previously identified nodes and edges. Only particular grammars may be
used depending on the n-grams identified in the text query. So the terminal
tokens of all available grammars should be examined to find those that match
the identified n-grams from the text query. In other words, if a particular
grammar can use all of the identified nodes and edges as query tokens, that
grammar may be selected by the social-networking system 160 as a possible
grammar to use for generating a structured query. This is effectively a type of
bottom-up parsing, where the possible query tokens are used to determine the
applicable grammar to apply to the query. As an example and not by way of
limitation, for the text query "friends stanford", the social-networking system
may identify the query tokens of [friends] and [Stanford University]. Terminal
tokens of the grammars from the grammar model may be identified, as
previously discussed. Any grammar that is able to use both the [friends] and the
[Stanford University] tokens may then be selected. For example, the grammar
[user] [user-filter][school] may be selected because this grammar could use the
[friends] and the [Stanford University] tokens as query tokens, such as by
forming the strings "friends who go to Stanford University" or "friends who
work at Stanford University". Thus, if the n-grams of the received text query
could be used as query tokens in the grammars, then these grammars may be
selected by the social-networking system 160. Similarly, if the received text
query comprises n-grams that could not be used as query tokens in the
grammar, that grammar may not be selected. Although this disclosure describes
selecting particular grammars in a particular manner, this disclosure
contemplates selecting any suitable grammars in any suitable manner.
[57]    In particular embodiments, the social-networking system 160 may select
one or more grammars by analyzing a grammar forest formed by a plurality of
grammars. The grammar forest may be organized as an ordered tree comprising

                                         36
a plurality of non-terminal tokens and a plurality of terminal tokens. Each
grammar may be represented as a sub-tree within the grammar forest, and each
sub-tree may adjoin other sub-trees via one or more additional non-terminal
tokens. As an example and not by way of limitation, the social-networking
system 160 may start by identifying all the terminal tokens (i.e., query tokens)
in the grammar forest that correspond to identified nodes and edges
corresponding to portions of a text query. Once these query tokens in the
grammar forest have been identified, the social-networking system 160 may
then traverse the grammar forest up from each of these query tokens to identify
one or more intersecting non-terminal tokens. Once a non-terminal token has
been identified where paths from all the query tokens intersect, that
intersecting non-terminal token may be selected, and the one or more grammars
adjoined to that intersecting non-terminal token in the grammar forest may then
be selected. Although this disclosure describes selecting grammars in a
particular manner, this disclosure contemplates selecting grammars in any
suitable manner.
[58]   FIG. 5A illustrates an example semantic tree. In particular embodiments,
the social-networking system 160 may generate a semantic tree corresponding
to the text query from the querying user. The semantic tree may include each
identified query token that corresponds to a previously identified node or edge,
and may also include an intersect token. The semantic tree may also include
non-terminal tokens as appropriate connecting the query tokens to the intersect
token. As an example and not by way of limitation, the text query "friends
stanford" may be parsed into the query command: intersect(school(Stanford
University), friends(me)). In other words, the query is looking for nodes in the
social graph that intersect both friends of the querying user ("me") (i.e., those
user nodes 202 that are connected to the user node 202 of the querying user by
a friend-type edge 206) and the concept node 204 for Stanford University. This
may be represented as the semantic tree illustrated in FIG. 5A, which includes
the terminal tokens for the querying user [me], and the school [Stanford], a
non-terminal token for [friends of [user]], and an intersect token. In particular
embodiments, each token in the tree may be labeled in the order it will be

                                         37
processed. For example, the semantic tree illustrated in FIG. 5A has tokens
labeled using a postfix notation, with the token for [Stanford] labeled as (0,0),
the token for [me] labeled as (1,1), the [friends of [user]] token labeled (2), and
the intersect token labeled (3). Although this disclosure describes generating
particular semantic trees in a particular manner, this disclosure contemplates
generating any suitable semantic trees in any suitable manner.
[59]    FIG. 5B illustrates an example grammar forest. In particular
embodiments, the social-networking system 160 may analyze a grammar forest
comprising a plurality of grammars to identify one or more sets of non-terminal
tokens and query tokens that substantially match a semantic tree corresponding
to a query, where each set has a non-terminal token corresponding to the
intersect token of the semantic tree. The social-networking system 160 may
then select one or more of the grammars in the grammar forest adjoining the
non-terminal token corresponding to the intersect token. Each selected
intersecting non-terminal token from the grammar forest may then be labeled as
a [start] token for a grammar. As an example and not by way of limitation, the
following algorithm may be used to traverse the grammar forest to identify an
intersecting token:
for each terminal token (i,i) in a semantic tree, label each matching terminal
token in the grammar forest (i,i).
for i = 0 to size(semantic tree-1):
for j = i to 0:
expand all tokens labeled (i,j).
expand (i,j):
for all tokens in the grammar forest:
if token has a rule with 1 argument that grows sub-tree to (i',j'), then label
token as (i',j');
if token has a rule with more than 1 argument that might grow the sub-tree,
label token as "waiting";
if token is labeled "waiting", and now can grow sub-tree to (i',j'), then label
token as (i',j').

                                          38
Thus, for example, in the example illustrated in FIG. 5B, all terminal tokens
that match terminal tokens (0,0) and (1,1) from the semantic tree illustrated in
FIG. 5A will be labeled as (0,0) and (1,1), respectively. Then, from each valid
token in the grammar forest, the social-networking system 160 may traverse to
parent tokens to see if a sub-tree can be formed that matches the semantic tree.
If the parent non-terminal token has a matching semantic, that non-terminal
token may be labeled using the same label as the corresponding token from the
semantic tree. In the example illustrated in FIG. 5B, as the grammar forest is
traversed from one of the tokens labeled (1,1), once a non-terminal token
matching the semantic [friends of [user]] is found, that token may be labeled
(2), so it matches the semantic tree. A parent of this token may then be labeled
as "waiting" since it is a potential intersect token. However, if the traverse
cannot find any parent tokens that match the semantic of the semantic tree, then
that particular traverse may be terminated. Once one branch of the traverse has
reached a potential intersect token, that token may be labeled as "waiting".
while the algorithm proceeds with traverses from other valid terminal tokens
(e.g., the traverse from terminal tokens labeled (0,0)). Alternatively, if a
traverse finds a token that has already been labeled as "waiting," that token
may be identified as an intersect token and labeled (3). Each token labeled (3)
may then be selected as a grammar, which may be used to generate a natural
language string for a structured query. The algorithm will attempt to find the
lowest-cost multi-path in the grammar forest that leads to an intersect token,
and the intersect token corresponding to this lowest-cost multi-path may be
preferentially selected over other intersect tokens (if any). Although this
disclosure describes analyzing particular grammar forests in a particular
manner, this disclosure contemplates analyzing any suitable grammar forests in
any suitable manner.
[60]    In particular embodiments, the social-networking system 160 may
determine a score for each selected grammar. The score may be, for example, a
confidence score, a probability, a quality, a ranking, another suitable type of
score, or any combination thereof. The score may be based on the individual
scores or probabilities associated with the query tokens used in the selected

                                         39
grammar. A grammar may have a higher relative score if it uses query tokens
with relatively higher individual scores. As an example and not by way of
limitation, continuing with the prior examples, the n-gram "stanford" could be
scored with respect to the following social-graph elements as follows: school
"Stanford University" = 0.7; location "Stanford, California" = 0.2; user "Allen
Stanford" = 0.1. The n-gram "friends" could be scored with respect to the
following social-graph elements as follows: user "friends" = 0.9; television
show "Friends" = 0.1. Thus, the grammar [user][user-filter] [school] may have a
relatively high score if it uses the query tokens for the user "friends" and the
school "Stanford University" (generating, for example, the string "friends who
go to Stanford University"), both of which have relatively high individual
scores. In contrast, the grammar [user] [user-filter][user] may have relatively
low score if it uses the query tokens for the user "friends" and the user "Allen
Stanford" (generating, for example, the string "friends of Allen Stanford"),
since the latter query token has a relatively low individual score. In particular
embodiments, the social-networking system 160 may determine a score for a
selected grammar based on the lengths of the paths traversed in order to
identify the intersect token corresponding to the selected grammar. Grammars
with lower-cost multi-paths (i.e., shorter paths) may be scored more highly than
grammars with high-cost multi-paths (i.e., longer paths). In particular
embodiments, the social-networking system 160 may determine a score for a
selected grammar based on advertising sponsorship. An advertiser (such as, for
example, the user or administrator of a particular profile page corresponding to
a particular node) may sponsor a particular node such that a grammar that
includes a query token referencing that sponsored node may be scored more
highly. Although this disclosure describes determining particular scores for
particular grammars in a particular manner, this disclosure contemplates
determining any suitable scores for any suitable grammars in any suitable
manner.
[61]   In particular embodiments, the social-networking system 160 may
determine the score for a selected grammar based on the relevance of the
social-graph elements corresponding to the query tokens of the grammar to the

                                          40
querying user (i.e., the first user, corresponding to a first user node 202). User
nodes 202 and concept nodes 204 that are connected to the first user node 202
directly by an edge 206 may be considered relevant to the first user. Thus,
grammars comprising query tokens corresponding to these relevant nodes and
edges may be considered more relevant to the querying user. As an example
and not by way of limitation, a concept node 204 connected by an edge 206 to a
first user node 202 may be considered relevant to the first user node 202. As
used herein, when referencing a social graph 200 the term "connected" means a
path exists within the social graph 200 between two nodes, wherein the path
may comprise one or more edges 206 and zero or more intermediary nodes. In
particular embodiments, nodes that are connected to the first user node 202 via
one or more intervening nodes (and therefore two or more edges 206) may also
be considered relevant to the first user. Furthermore, in particular
embodiments, the closer the second node is to the first user node, the more
relevant the second node may be considered to the first user node. That is, the
fewer edges 206 separating the first user node 202 from a particular user node
202 or concept node 204 (i.e., the fewer degrees of separation), the more
relevant that user node 202 or concept node 204 may be considered to the first
user. As an example and not by way of limitation, as illustrated in FIG. 2, the
concept node 204 corresponding to the school "Stanford" is connected to the
user node 202 corresponding to User "C," and thus the concept "Stanford" may
be considered relevant to User "C." As another example and not by way of
limitation, the user node 202 corresponding to User "A" is connected to the
user node 202 corresponding to User "C" via one intermediate node and two
edges 206 (i.e., the intermediated user node 202 corresponding to User "B"),
and thus User "A" may be considered relevant to User "C," but because the
user node 202 for User "A" is a second-degree connection with respect to User
"C," that particular concept node 204 may be considered less relevant than a
user node 202 that is connected to the user node for User "C" by a single edge
206, such as, for example, the user node 202 corresponding to User "B." As yet
another example and not by way of limitation, the concept node for "Online
Poker" (which may correspond to an online multiplayer game) is not connected

                                         41
to the user node for User "C" by any pathway in social graph 200, and thus the
concept "Online Poker" may not be considered relevant to User "C." In
particular embodiments, a second node may only be considered relevant to the
first user if the second node is within a threshold degree of separation of the
first user node 202. As an example and not by way of limitation, if the
threshold degree of separation is three, then the user node 202 corresponding to
User "D" may be considered relevant to the concept node 204 corresponding to
the recipe "Chicken Parmesan," which are within three degrees of each other on
social graph 200 illustrated in FIG. 2. However, continuing with this example,
the concept node 204 corresponding to the application "All About Recipes"
would not be considered relevant to the user node 202 corresponding to User
"D" because these nodes are four degrees apart in the social graph 200.
Although this disclosure describes determining whether particular social-graph
elements (and thus their corresponding query tokens) are relevant to each other
in a particular manner, this disclosure contemplates determining whether any
suitable social-graph elements are relevant to each other in any suitable
manner. Moreover, although this disclosure describes determining whether
particular query tokens corresponding to user nodes 202 and concept nodes 204
are relevant to a querying user, this disclosure contemplates similarly
determining whether any suitable query token (and thus any suitable node) is
relevant to any other suitable user.
[62]    In particular embodiments, the social-networking system 160 may
determine the score for a selected grammar based social-graph information
corresponding to the query tokens of the grammar. As an example and not by
way of limitation, when determining a probability, p, that an n-gram
corresponds to a particular social-graph element, the calculation of the
probability may also factor in social-graph information. Thus, the probability
of corresponding to a particular social-graph element, k, given a particular
search query, X, and social-graph information., G, may be calculated as
 p=(k X,G). The individual probabilities for the identified nodes and edges may
then be used to determine the score for a grammar using those social-graph
elements as query tokens. In particular embodiments, the score for a selected

                                         42
grammar may be based on the degree of separation between the first user node
202 and the particular social-graph element used as a query token in the
grammar. Grammars with query tokens corresponding to social-graph elements
that are closer in the social graph 200 to the querying user (i.e., fewer degrees
of separation between the element and the first user node 202) may be scored
more highly than grammars using query tokens corresponding to social-graph
elements that are further from the user (i.e., more degrees of separation). As an
example and not by way of limitation, referencing FIG. 2, if user "B" inputs a
text query of "chicken," a grammar with a query token corresponding to the
concept node 204 for the recipe "Chicken Parmesan," which is connected to
user "B" by an edge 206, may have a relatively higher score than a grammar
with a query token corresponding to other nodes associated with the n-gram
chicken (e.g., concept nodes 204 corresponding to "chicken nuggets," or "funky
chicken dance") that are not connected to user "B" in the social graph 200. In
particular embodiments, the score for a selected grammar may be based on the
identified edges 206 corresponding to the query tokens of the grammar. If the
social-networking system 160 has already identified one or more edges that
correspond to n-grams in a received text query, those identified edges may then
be considered when determining the score for a particular parsing of the text
query by the grammar. If a particular grammar comprises query tokens that
correspond to both identified nodes and identified edges, if the identified nodes
are not actually connected to any of the identified edges, that particular
grammar may be assigned a zero or null score. In particular embodiments, the
score for a selected grammar may be based on the number of edges 206
connected to the nodes corresponding to query tokens of the grammar.
Grammars comprising query tokens that corresponding to nodes with more
connecting edges 206 may be more popular and more likely to be a target of a
search query. As an example and not by way of limitation, if the concept node
204 for "Stanford, California" is only connected by five edges while the
concept node 204 for "Stanford University" is connected by five-thousand
edges, when determining the score for grammars containing query tokens
corresponding to either of these nodes, the social-networking system 160 may

                                          43
determine that the grammar with a query token corresponding to the concept
node 204 for "Stanford University" has a relatively higher score than a
grammar referencing the concept node 204 for "Stanford, California" because
of the greater number of edges connected to the former concept node 204. In
particular embodiments, the score for a selected grammar may be based on the
search history associate with the first user (i.e., the querying user). Grammars
with query tokens corresponding to nodes that the first user has previously
accessed, or are relevant to the nodes the first user has previously accessed,
may be more likely to be the target of the first user's search query. Thus, these
grammars may be given a higher score. As an example and not by way of
limitation, if first user has previously visited the "Stanford University" profile
page but has never visited the "Stanford, California" profile page, when
determining the score for grammars with query tokens corresponding to these
concepts, the social-networking system 160 may determine that the concept
node 204 for "Stanford University" has a relatively high score, and thus the
grammar using the corresponding query token, because the querying user has
previously accessed the concept node 204 for the school. As another example
and not by way of limitation, if the first user has previously visited the
concept-profile page for the television show "Friends," when determining the
score for the grammar with the query token corresponding to that concept, the
social-networking system 160 may determine that the concept node 204
corresponding to the television show "Friends" has a relatively high score, and
thus the grammar using the corresponding query token, because the querying
user has previously accessed the concept node 204 for that television show.
Although this disclosure describes determining scores for particular grammars
based on particular social-graph information in a particular manner, this
disclosure contemplates determining scores for any suitable grammars based on
any suitable social-graph information in any suitable manner.
[63]   In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may select one
or more grammars having a score greater than a grammar-threshold score. Each
of the selected grammars may contain query tokens that correspond to each of
the identified nodes or identified edges (which correspond to n-grams of the

                                          44
received text query). In particular embodiments, the grammars may be ranked
based on their determined scores, and only grammars within a threshold rank
may be selected (e.g., top seven). Although this disclosure describes selecting
grammars in a particular manner, this disclosure contemplates selecting
grammars in any suitable manner.
[64]   In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may generate
one or more structured queries corresponding to the selected grammars (e.g.,
those grammars having a score greater than a grammar-threshold score). Each
structured query may be based on a string generated by the corresponding
selected grammar. As an example and not by way of limitation, in response to
the text query "friends stanford", the grammar [user] [user-filter] [school] may
generate a string "friends who go to Stanford University", where the non
terminal tokens [user], [user-filter], [school] of the grammar have been
replaced by the terminal tokens [friends], [who go to], and [Stanford
University], respectively, to generate the string. In particular embodiments, a
string that is generated by grammar using a natural-language syntax may be
rendered as a structured query in natural language. As an example and not by
way of limitation, the structured query from the previous example uses the
terminal token [who go to], which uses a natural-language syntax so that the
string rendered by grammar is in natural language. The natural-language string
generated by a grammar may then be rendered to form a structured query by
modifying the query tokens corresponding to social-graph element to include
references to those social-graph elements. As an example and not by way of
limitation, the string "friends who go to Stanford University" may be rendered
so that the query token for "Stanford University" appears in the structured
query as a reference to the concept node 204 corresponding to the school
"Stanford University", where the reference may be include highlighting, an
inline link, a snippet, another suitable reference, or any combination thereof.
Each structured query may comprise query tokens corresponding to the
corresponding selected grammar, where these query tokens correspond to one
or more of the identified edges 206 and one or more of the identified nodes.
Generating structured queries is described more below.

                                         45
[65]   In particular embodiments, the social-networking system 160 may
generate one or more query modifications for a structured query using a
context-free grammar model. Query modifications are discussed more below. A
query modification may reference one or more additional nodes or one or more
additional edges. This type of query modification may be used to refine or
narrow the structured query. Alternatively, a query modification may reference
one or more alternate nodes or one or more alternate edges. This type of query
modification may be used to pivot or broaden the structured query.
Collectively, these may be referred to as modifying nodes and modifying edges,
where the modification is to either add or replace a particular query token
corresponding to a social-graph element. The references in the query
modification to additional or alternate nodes and edges may be used to add or
replace query tokens in a structured query, respectively. To identify possible
query modifications for a structured query, the social-networking system 160
may identify one or more grammars having query tokens corresponding to the
selected nodes and selected edges from the original structured query. In other
words, the social-networking system 160 may identify the grammar actually
used to generate that particular structured query, other grammars that could
have produced that structured query, and grammars that could have that
structured query as portion of another structured query. The social-networking
system 160 may then identify query tokens in those grammars that may be
added or replaced in the structured query. These additional or alternate query
tokens may then be used to generate suggested query modifications, which may
be transmitted to the querying user as part of a search-results page. The
querying user may then select one or more of these query modifications, and in
response the social-networking system 160 may generate a new structured
query (and corresponding search results). This new structured query may
include the modifying query tokens (i.e., additional or alternate query tokens)
as appropriate. Although this disclosure describes generating query
modifications in a particular manner, this disclosure contemplates generating
query modifications in any suitable manner.

                                         46
[66]    FIG. 6 illustrates an example method 600 for using a context-free
grammar model to generate natural-language structured search queries. The
method may begin at step 610, where the social-networking system 160 may
access a social graph 200 comprising a plurality of nodes and a plurality of
edges 206 connecting the nodes. The nodes may comprise a first user node 202
and a plurality of second nodes (one or more user nodes 202, concepts nodes
204, or any combination thereof). At step 620, the social-networking system
 160 may receive from the first user an unstructured text query. The text query
may comprise one or more n-grams. At step 630, the social-networking system
 160 may identify edges and second nodes corresponding to at least a portion of
the unstructured text query. For example, the social-networking system 160
may identify edges and node that correspond to particular n-grams from the
query. At step 640, the social-networking system 160 may access a context-free
grammar model comprising a plurality of grammars. Each grammar may
comprise one or more non-terminal tokens and one or more query tokens (i.e.,
terminal tokens). At step 650, the social-networking system 160 may identify
one or more query tokens in the plurality of grammars, where each identified
query token corresponds to one of the identified nodes or identified edges. At
step 660, the social-networking system 160 may select one or more grammars,
where each of the selected grammars comprises at least one query token
corresponding to each of the identified edges and identified second nodes. At
step 670, the social-networking system may generate one or more structured
queries based on the selected grammars. Each structured query may correspond
to string generated by the selected grammar, which may use a natural-language
syntax. Each structured query may included references to each of the identified
edges and identified second nodes. Particular embodiments may repeat one or
more steps of the method of FIG. 6, where appropriate. Although this
disclosure describes and illustrates particular steps of the method of FIG. 6 as
occurring in a particular order, this disclosure contemplates any suitable steps
of the method of FIG. 6 occurring in any suitable order. Moreover, although
this disclosure describes and illustrates particular components, devices, or
systems carrying out particular steps of the method of FIG. 6, this disclosure

                                        47
contemplates any suitable combination of any suitable components, devices, or
systems carrying out any suitable steps of the method of FIG. 6.
[67]   More information on using grammar models with search queries may be
found in U.S. Patent Application No. 13/674695, filed 12 November 2012,
which is incorporated by reference.
Generating Structured Search Queries
[68]   In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may generate
one or more structured queries that each comprise the query tokens of the
corresponding grammar, where the query tokens may correspond to one or more
of the identified user nodes 202 or one or more of the identified edges 206. The
generated structured queries may be based on natural-language strings
generated by one or more context-free grammars, as described previously. This
type of structured search query may allow the social-networking system 160 to
more efficiently search for resources and content related to the online social
network (such as, for example, profile pages) by searching for content
connected to or otherwise related to the identified user nodes 202 and the
identified edges 206. As an example and not by way of limitation, in response
to the text query, "show me friends of my girlfriend," the social-networking
system 160 may generate a structured query "Friends of Stephanie," where
"Friends" and "Stephanie" in the structured query are references corresponding
to particular social-graph elements. The reference to "Stephanie" would
correspond to a particular user node 202, while the reference to "friends"
would correspond to "friend" edges 206 connecting that user node 202 to other
user nodes 202 (i.e., edges 206 connecting to "Stephanie's" first-degree
friends). When executing this structured query, the social-networking system
 160 may identify one or more user nodes 202 connected by "friend" edges 206
to the user node 202 corresponding to "Stephanie." In particular embodiments,
the social-networking system 160 may generate a plurality of structured
queries, where the structured queries may comprise references to different
identified user nodes 202 or different identified edges 206. As an example and
not by way of limitation, in response to the text query, "photos of cat," the

                                         48
social-networking system 160 may generate a first structured query "Photos of
Catey" and a second structured query "Photos of Catherine," where "Photos" in
the structured query is a reference corresponding to a particular social-graph
element, and where "Catey" and "Catherine" are references to two different
user nodes 202. Although this disclosure describes generating particular
structured queries in a particular manner, this disclosure contemplates
generating any suitable structured queries in any suitable manner.
[69]   In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may generate
one or more structured queries that each comprise query tokens corresponding
to the identified concept nodes 204 and one or more of the identified edges
206. This type of structured search query may allow the social-networking
system 160 to more efficiently search for resources and content related to the
online social network (such as, for example, profile pages) by search for
content connected to or otherwise related to the identified concept nodes 204
and the identified edges 206. As an example and not by way of limitation, in
response to the text query, "friends like facebook," the social-networking
system 160 may generate a structured query "My friends who like Facebook,"
where "friends," "like," and "Facebook" in the structured query are query
tokens corresponding to particular social-graph elements as described
previously (i.e., a "friend" edge 206, a "like" edge 206, and a "Facebook"
concept node 204). In particular embodiments, the social-networking system
 160 may generate a plurality of structured queries, where the structured queries
may comprise references to different identified concept nodes 204 or different
identified edges 206. As an example and not by way of limitation, continuing
with the previous example, in addition to the structured query "My friends who
like Facebook," the social-networking system 160 may also generate a
structured query "My friends who like Facebook Culinary Team," where
"Facebook Culinary Team" in the structured query is a query token
corresponding to yet another social-graph element. In particular embodiments,
social-networking system 160 may rank the generated structured queries. The
structured queries may be ranked based on a variety of factors. In particular
embodiments, the social-networking system 160 may ranks structured queries

                                          49
based on advertising sponsorship. An advertiser (such as, for example, the user
or administrator of a particular profile page corresponding to a particular node)
may sponsor a particular node such that a structured query referencing that
node may be ranked more highly. Although this disclosure describes
generating particular structured queries in a particular manner, this disclosure
contemplates generating any suitable structured queries in any suitable manner.
[70]   In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may transmit
one or more of the structured queries to the first user (i.e., the querying user).
As an example and not by way of limitation, after the structured queries are
generated, the social-networking system 160 may transmit one or more of the
structured queries as a response (which may utilize AJAX or other suitable
techniques) to the user's client system 130 that may include, for example, the
names (name strings) of the referenced social-graph elements, other query
limitations (e.g., Boolean operators, etc.), as well as, potentially, other
metadata associated with the referenced social-graph elements. The web
browser 132 on the querying user's client system 130 may display the
transmitted structured queries in a drop-down menu 300, as illustrated in FIGs.
4A-4B. In particular embodiments, the transmitted queries may be presented to
the querying user in a ranked order, such as, for example, based on a rank
previously determined as described above. Structured queries with better
rankings may be presented in a more prominent position. Furthermore, in
particular embodiments, only structured queries above a threshold rank may be
transmitted or displayed to the querying user. As an example and not by way of
limitation, as illustrated in FIGs. 4A-4B, the structured queries may be
presented to the querying user in a drop-down menu 300 where higher ranked
structured queries may be presented at the top of the menu, with lower ranked
structured queries presented in descending order down the menu. In the
examples illustrated in FIGs. 4A-4B, only the seven highest ranked queries are
transmitted and displayed to the user. In particular embodiments, one or more
references in a structured query may be highlighted (e.g., outlined, underlined,
circled, bolded, italicized, colored, lighted, offset, in caps) in order to indicate
its correspondence to a particular social-graph element. As an example and not

                                         50
by way of limitation, as illustrated in FIGs. 4A-4B, the references to "Stanford
University" and "Stanford, California" are highlighted (outlined) in the
structured queries to indicate that it corresponds to a particular concept node
204. Similarly, the references to "Friends", "like", "work at", and "go to" in
the structured queries presented in drop-down menu 300 could also be
highlighted to indicate that they correspond to particular edges 206. Although
this disclosure describes transmitting particular structured queries in a
particular manner, this disclosure contemplates transmitting any suitable
structured queries in any suitable manner.
[71]   In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may receive
from the first user (i.e., the querying user) a selection of one of the structured
queries. Alternatively, the social-networking system 160 may receive a
structured query as a query selected automatically by the system (e.g., a default
selection) in certain contexts. The nodes and edges referenced in the received
structured query may be referred to as the selected nodes and selected edges,
respectively. As an example and not by way of limitation, the web browser 132
on the querying user's client system 130 may display the transmitted structured
queries in a drop-down menu 300, as illustrated in FIGs. 4A-4B, which the user
may then click on or otherwise select (e.g., by simply keying "enter" on his
keyboard) to indicate the particular structured query the user wants the social
networking system 160 to execute. Upon selecting the particular structured
query, the user's client system 130 may call or otherwise instruct to the social
networking system 160 to execute the selected structured query. Although this
disclosure describes receiving selections of particular structured queries in a
particular manner, this disclosure contemplates receiving selections of any
suitable structured queries in any suitable manner.
[72]   More information on structured search queries may be found in U.S.
Patent Application No. 13/556072, filed 23 July 2012, which is incorporated by
reference.

                                         51
Generating Search Results and Snippets
[73]    FIGs. 7A-7G illustrate example search-results pages. In response to a
structured query received from a querying user (also referred to as the "first
user"), the social-networking system 160 may generate one or more search
results, where each search result matches (or substantially matches) the terms
of the structured query. In particular embodiments, the social-networking
system 160 may receive a structured query from a querying user (also referred
to as the "first user", corresponding to a first user node 202). In response to the
structured query, the social-networking system 160 may generate one or more
search results corresponding to the structured query. Each search result may
include link to a profile page and a description or summary of the profile page
(or the node corresponding to that page). The search results may be presented
and transmitted to the querying user as a search-results page. FIGs. 7A-7G
illustrate various example search-results pages generated in response to various
structured queries. The structured query used to generate a particular search
results page is shown in query field 350, and the various search results
generated in response to the structured query are illustrated in results field 710.
In particular embodiments, the query field 350 may also serve as the title bar
for the page. In other words, the title bar and query field 350 may effectively
be a unified field on the search-results page. As an example, FIG. 7G illustrates
a search-results page with the structured query "Photos of my friends from
Tennessee" in query field 350. This structured query also effectively serves as
the title for the generated page, where the page shows a plurality of photos of
the querying user's friends who are from Tennessee. The search-results page
may also include a modifications field 720, a suggested-searches field 730, an
expanded-searches field 740, or a disambiguation field 750. These additional
fields are discussed more below. When generating the search results, the social
networking system 160 may generate one or more snippets for each search
result, where the snippets are contextual information about the target of the
search result (i.e., contextual information about the social-graph entity, profile
page, or other content corresponding to the particular search result). In
particular embodiments, at least one snippet for each search result will be a

                                         52
lineage snippet, which describes how the search result matches to the selected
node and selected edges from the structured query that was used to generate the
search result. These lineage snippets provide context about how a particular
search result satisfies the terms of the structured query with respect to social
graph elements. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular
search-results pages, this disclosure contemplates any suitable search-results
pages. Furthermore, although this disclosure describes and illustrates
generating particular snippets in a particular manner, this disclosure
contemplates generating any suitable snippets in any suitable manner.
[74]   In particular embodiments, the social-networking system 160 may
generate one or more search results corresponding to a structured query. The
search results may identify resources or content (e.g., user-profile pages,
content-profile pages, or external resources) that match or are likely to be
related to the search query. In particular embodiments, each search result may
correspond to a particular user node 202 or concept node 204 of the social
graph 200. The search result may include a link to the profile page associated
with the node, as well as contextual information about the node (i.e., contextual
information about the user or concept that corresponds to the node). As an
example and not by way of limitation, referencing FIG. 7B, the structured
query "My friends who work at Facebook" in query field 350 generated the
various search results illustrated in results field 710. Each search result in
results field 710 shows a link to a profile page of a user (illustrated as the
user's name, which contains an inline link to the profile page) and contextual
information about that user that corresponds to a user node 202 of the social
graph 200. As another example and not by way of limitation, referencing FIG.
7G, the structured query "Photos of my friends from Tennessee" in query field
350 generated the various search results illustrated in results field 710. Each
search result illustrated in FIG. 7G shows a thumbnail of a photograph that
corresponds to a concept node 204 of the social graph. In particular
embodiments, each search result may correspond to a node that is connected to
one or more of the selected nodes by one or more of the selected edges of the
structured query. As an example and not by way of limitation, referencing FIG.

                                          53
2, if user "C" submits a structured query "Friends who like the Old Pro", which
references the friend-type edge 206 and the concept node 204 of the location
"Old Pro", the social-networking system 160 may return a search result
corresponding to user "B" because the user node 202 of user "B" is connected
to the user node 202 of user "C" by a friend-type edge 206 and also connected
to the concept node 204 of the location "Old Pro" by a like-type edge 206. In
particular embodiments, the social-networking system 160 may also transmit
advertisements or other sponsored content to the client system 130 in response
to the structured query. The advertisements may be included in as part of the
search results, or separately. The advertisements may correspond to one or
more of the objects referenced in the search results. In particular embodiments,
the social-networking system 160 may filter out one or more search results
identifying particular resources or content based on the privacy settings
associated with the users associated with those resources or content. Although
this disclosure describes generating particular search results in a particular
manner, this disclosure contemplates generating any suitable search results in
any suitable manner.
[75]    In particular embodiments, a search result may include one or more
snippets. A snippet is contextual information about the target of the search
result. In other words, a snippet provides information about that page or
content corresponding to the search result. As an example and not by way of
limitation, a snippet may be a sample of content from the profile page (or node)
corresponding to the search result. A snippet may be included along with
search results for any suitable type of content. In particular embodiments, the
snippets displayed with a search result may be based on the type of content
corresponding to the search result. As an example and not by way of limitation,
if the querying user is searching for users, then the snippets included with the
search results may be contextual information about the users displayed in the
search results, like the user's age, location, education, or employer. As another
example and not by way of limitation, if the querying user is searching for
photos, then the snippets included with the search results may be contextual
information about the photos displayed in the search results, like the names of

                                           54
people or objects in the photo, the number of likes/views of the photo, or the
location where the photo was taken. As yet another example and not by way of
limitation, if the querying user is search for a location, then the snippets
included with the search results may be contextual information about the
locations displayed in the search results, like the address of the location,
operating hours of the location, or the number of likes/check-ins at the
location. The information provided in a snippet may be selected by the
owner/administrator of the target page, or may be selected automatically be the
social-networking system 160. Snippets may be used to display key information
about a search result, such as image thumbnails, summaries, document types,
page views, comments, dates, authorship, ratings, prices, or other relevant
information. In particular embodiments, a snippet for a search result
corresponding to users/concepts in an online social network may include
contextual information that is provided by users of the online social network or
otherwise available on the online social network. As an example and not by
way of limitation, a snippet may include one or more of the following types of
information: privacy settings of a group; number of members in a group;
sponsored messages (e.g., an inline ad unit rendered as a snippet); page
categories; physical address; biographical details; interests; relationship status;
sexual orientation/preference; sex/gender; age; birthday; current city; education
history; political affiliations; religious beliefs; work history; applications used;
comments; tags; other suitable contextual information; or any combination
thereof. In particular embodiments, a snippet may include references to nodes
or edges from the social graph 200. These snippets may be highlighted to
indicate the reference corresponds to a social-graph element. As an example
and not by way of limitation, FIG. 7F illustrates a search result for the user
"Sol", where one of the snippets for that search result is "Likes Reposado, The
Slanted Door, and 12 others." The terms "Reposado" and "The Slanted Door"
are both highlighted (underlined) in this example to indicate that they are
references to concept nodes 204 corresponding to the concepts "Reposado" and
"The Slanted Door", which are restaurants liked by the user "Sol" (i.e., the user
node 202 for "Sol" is connected to the concept nodes 204 for "Reposado" and

                                         55
"The Slanted Door" by a like-type edge 206). The highlighted references in this
example also contain inline links to the concept-profile pages corresponding to
"Reposado" and "The Slanted Door". In particular embodiments, the social
networking system 160 may filter out one or more snippets for a search result
based on the privacy settings associated with the user identified by the search
result. Although this disclosure describes particular types of snippets, this
disclosure contemplates any suitable types of snippets.
[76]    In particular embodiments, a search result may include at least one
snippet comprising one or more references to the selected nodes and the
selected edges of a structured search query. In other words, in response to a
structured search query, the social-networking system 160 may generate a
search result with a snippet providing contextual information related to how the
search result matches the search query. These may be referred to as lineage
snippets, since they provide social-graph information (node/edge relationship
information) contextualizing how the particular search result is related to the
social-graph elements of the structured query. In other words, a lineage snippet
is a way of providing proof to the querying user that a particular search result
satisfies a structured query. As an example and not by way of limitation, FIG.
7D illustrates a search-results page for the structured query "My friends who
work at Facebook and work at Acme as software engineers." The social-graph
elements referenced in the structured query include "my friends" (i.e., user
nodes 202 connected to the querying user's node by a friend-type edge 206),
"who work at Facebook (i.e., user nodes 202 connected to the concept node 204
for "Facebook" by a work-at-type edge 206), and "work at Acme" (i.e., user
nodes 202 connected to the concept node 204 for "Acme" by a work-at-type
edge 206). The first search result illustrated in FIG. 7D for "Luke" includes a
snippet stating "Director of Engineering at Facebook", which corresponds to
the "who work at Facebook" token from the structured query. Thus, this snippet
shows that the search result for "Luke" satisfies the "who work at Facebook"
requirement of the structured query because "Luke" is "Director of Engineering
at Facebook." Other snippets in the "Luke" search result provide further
context showing how that search result satisfies the other criteria of the

                                         56
structured query. In other words, the user node 202 for "Luke" is connected to
the concept node 204 for "Facebook" by a work-at-type edge 206. In particular
embodiments, a lineage snippet may include one or more of the following types
of social-graph information: school attended; worked in/at; pages liked; apps
used; subscribing to; subscribed by; family relationships; relationship
connections (married to; dating; etc.); lives in/near; places checked into; places
visited by; number of friends that live at a location; number of friends that
study at a location; friends that are members of a group; number of likes;
number of people talking about a page; number of subscribers; friends using an
application; number of users of an application; people tagged in media; people
commented on/in media; people who created media; other suitable social-graph
information; or any combination thereof. In particular embodiments, one or
more of the references to the selected nodes or the selected edges in the lineage
snippet may be highlighted to indicate that the reference corresponds to a
selected node or a selected edge. Although this disclosure describes particular
types of lineage snippets, this disclosure contemplates any suitable types of
lineage snippets.
[77]   In particular embodiments, a search result may include a snippet
comprising a reference to one or more nodes that are connected to the user node
202 of the querying user by one or more edges 206. In other words, the search
result may include a snippet with contextual information about how the search
result is related to the querying user's friends or related to concept nodes 204
connected to the user. These may be referred to as social snippets, since they
provide social-graph information (node-edge relationship information)
contextualizing how the particular search result is connected to the querying
user and/or the user's friends/interests. As an example and not by way of
limitation, FIG. 7D illustrates a search-results page for the structured query
"My friends who work at Facebook and work at Acme as software engineers."
The first search result illustrated in FIG. 7D for "Luke" includes a snippet
stating "Your friend since April 2009". This snippet provides contextual
information about how the "Luke" search result is related to the querying user.
In other words, the user node 202 for "Luke" is connected to the querying

                                         57
user's node by a friend-type edge 206. The "Luke" search result also includes a
snippet stating "197 mutual friends included Sol and Steven." This snippet
provides contextual information about how the "Luke" search result is related
to other nodes connected to the querying user. In other words, both the user
node 202 of the querying user and the user node 202 for "Luke" are connected
to the same 197 user nodes 202 by friend-type edges 206. In particular
embodiments, the search result may include multilevel lineage snippet. A
multilevel lineage snippet provides contextual information about how users or
concepts references in the snippet may be related to the query tokens from the
structured query. This may be used in response to complex structured queries.
As an example and not by way of limitation, user "A" and user "D" may be
connected in the social graph 200 by a brother-type edge 206 (indicating that
they are brothers). In response to a structured query for "Show people who are
brothers of Acme employees", the social-networking system 160 may generate
a search result for user "A" with a snippet stating, "Brother of User D. User D
is a software engineer at Acme". This snippet provides contextual information
about how the user "A" search result is related to user "D" (they are brothers,
connected by a brother-type edge 206), and how user "D" is related to "Acme"
(user "D" is connected to "Acme" by a worked-at-type edge 206). Although
this disclosure describes particular types of social snippets, this disclosure
contemplates any suitable types of social snippets.
[78]    In particular embodiments, a search result may include a snippet that
includes a customized structured query. This may be presented, for example, as
an inline link within the snippet. The querying user may then be able to click or
otherwise select once of a customized structured queries to transmit the query
to the social-networking system 160. In particular embodiments, the
customized structured query may be customized based on the associated search
result, such that the customized structured query includes a reference to the
node corresponding to the search result (and possible references to other social
graph elements. As an example and not by way of limitation, referencing FIG.
7A, the search result for "Paul" includes a snippet reading "Browse his Photos,
Friends, Interests", where "Photo". "Friends", and "Interests" are each

                                          58
customized structured queries to search for "Photos of Paul" (i.e., concept
nodes 204 of photos that are connected to the user node 202 of "Paul" by a
tagged-in-type edge 206), "Friends of Paul", and "Interests of Paul" (i.e.,
concept nodes 204 that are connected to the user node of "Paul" by an
interested-in-type edge 206), respectively. In particular embodiments, the
customized structured query may be customized based on the associated search
result and the selected nodes/edges from the original structured query (i.e., the
structured query that was used to produce the search result). These customized
structured queries would then include a reference to the node corresponding to
the search result and references to the selected nodes and the selected edges
from the original structured query. These may be referred to as lineage-pivot
snippets, since they are based on the social-graph elements from the original
structured query, like a lineage snippet, as well as the node corresponding to
the search result, thus pivoting the query based on the search result. As an
example and not by way of limitation, again referencing FIG. 7A, the
structured query "People who currently work for Facebook and like
Unicycling" generated the search results illustrated in results field 710. The
search result for "Tom" could include a snippet with a structured query
"Friends of Tom who like Unicycling", thus referencing both the user node 202
of the search result (i.e., the user node 202 of "Tom") and a selected node and
selected edge from the original structured query (i.e., the concept node 204 for
"Unicycling" connected by a like-type edge 206). As another example and not
by way of limitation, referencing FIG. 7F, the structured query "People who
like mexican restaurants in Palo Alto, California" generated the search results
illustrated in results field 710. The search result for "Sol" includes a snippet
"Like Reposado, The Slanted Door and 12 others", where "Reposado" and "The
Slanted Door" are both reference to concept nodes 204 for particular Mexican
restaurants in Palo Alto. Similarly, the reference to "12 others" could be an
inline link for a structured query "Mexican restaurants liked by Sol in Palo
Alto, California", thus referencing both the user node 202 of the search result
(i.e., the user node 202 of "Sol") and a selected node and selected edge from
the original structured query (i.e., the concept node 204 for "Palo Alto,

                                        59
California" and the like-type edge 206). Although this disclosure describes
generating particular snippets with customized structured queries, this
disclosure contemplates generating any suitable snippets with customized
structured queries.
[79]   In particular embodiments, the social-networking system 160 may score
one or more snippets corresponding to a search result (or snippets
corresponding to a node or profile page that is the target of the search result).
In response to a structured query, the social-networking system 160 may
identify nodes corresponding to the query and then access one or more snippets
corresponding to each of these identified nodes. The social-networking system
 160 may then determine, for each search result, a score for each of the snippets
corresponding to the search result. When generating a search result, only those
snippets having a score greater than a snippet-threshold score may be included
in the search result. The score may be, for example, a confidence score, a
probability, a quality, a ranking, another suitable type of score, or any
combination thereof. As an example and not by way of limitation, the social
networking system 160 may determine a ranking for each snippet, where only
the top five ranked snippets are included in a particular search result.
Alternatively, the social-networking system 160 may score each snippet and
include all available snippets with the search result, presented in ranked order
by score (possibly bypassing a ranking threshold to display a greater number of
snippets with a search result). Furthermore, different search results may include
different numbers of snippets. For example, a first search result may only have
two snippets associated with it and both snippets might be displayed in ranked
order by score, while a second search result may have nine snippets associated
with it and all nine snipped may be displayed in ranked order by score. In
particular embodiments, the social-networking system 160 may determine a
score for a snippet based on the social relevance of the snippet to the structured
query. Snippets that reference social-graph elements that are more closely
connected or otherwise relevant to the querying user may be scored more
highly than snippets that reference social-graph elements that are not as closely
connected or are otherwise less relevant to the querying user. In particular

                                           60
embodiments, the social-networking system 160 may determine a score for a
snippet based on the textual relevance of the snippet to the structured query.
The textual relevance of a particular snippet may be based on how the terms
and number of terms in the particular snippet match to the text query received
from the querying user. In particular embodiments, the social-networking
system 160 may determine a score for a snippet based on a search history
associated with the querying user. Snippets referencing social-graph elements
that the querying user has previously accessed, or are relevant to nodes/profile
pages the querying user has previously accessed, may be more likely to be
relevant to the user's structured query. Thus, these snippets may be given a
higher relative score. As an example and not by way of limitation, if the
querying user has previously search for "My female friends who are single",
then the social-networking system 160 may determine that the querying user is
interested in the relationship status of people he is searching for because of the
query modifier "who are single" in the query, which will search for users
having a relationship status of "single". Thus, in response to subsequent
queries (e.g., "Facebook engineers who went to Stanford University", as
illustrated in FIG. 7E), the social-networking system 160 may score snippets
showing the relationship status of the search result more highly than other
snippets because of the querying user's history of interest in that type of
contextual information (thus, the search results illustrated in FIG. 7E may have
scored the snippets showing the relationship statues for each search result more
highly, such as, for example "in a relationship" or "married"). In particular
embodiments, the social-networking system 160 may determine a score for a
snippet based on a category of the search. Searches may be categorized based
on the type of content that is the subject of the search. Snippets that are more
relevant to the type of content being searched for may be scored more highly
than less relevant snippets. As an example and not by way of limitation, when
searching for user, snippets that include personal information about the user
(e.g., location, relationship status, etc.) may be scored more highly than other
types of snippets, since personal information may be considered more relevant
to a querying user searching for other users. As another example and not by

                                         61
way of limitation, when searching for concepts, snippets that include social
graph information about the concept (e.g., number of subscribers/fan, number
of likes, number of check-ins/reviews, etc.) may be scored more highly than
other types of snippets, since social-graph information may be more relevant to
a querying user searching for concepts. In particular embodiments, the social
networking system 160 may determine a score for a snippet based on
advertising sponsorship. An advertiser (such as, for example, the user or
administrator of a particular profile page corresponding to a particular node)
may sponsor a particular node such that a snippet referencing that node may be
scored more highly. Although this disclosure describes scoring snippets in a
particular manner, this disclosure contemplates scoring snippets in any suitable
manner.
[80]   FIG. 8 illustrates an example method 800 for generating search results
and snippets. The method may begin at step 810, where the social-networking
system 160 may access a social graph 200 comprising a plurality of nodes and a
plurality of edges 206 connecting the nodes. The nodes may comprise a first
user node 202 and a plurality of second nodes (one or more user nodes 202,
concepts nodes 204, or any combination thereof). At step 820, the social
networking system 160 may receiving from the first user a structured query
comprising references to one or more selected node from the plurality of
second nodes and one or more selected edges from the plurality of edges. At
step 830, the social-networking system 160 may generate search results
corresponding to the structured query. Each search result may correspond to a
second node of the plurality of second nodes. Furthermore, each search result
may comprise one or more snippets of contextual information about the second
node corresponding to the search result. At least one snippet of each search
result comprises one or more references to the selected nodes and the selected
edges of the structured query. Particular embodiments may repeat one or more
steps of the method of FIG. 8, where appropriate. Although this disclosure
describes and illustrates particular steps of the method of FIG. 8 as occurring in
a particular order, this disclosure contemplates any suitable steps of the method
of FIG. 8 occurring in any suitable order. Moreover, although this disclosure

                                         62
describes and illustrates particular components, devices, or systems carrying
out particular steps of the method of FIG. 8, this disclosure contemplates any
suitable combination of any suitable components, devices, or systems carrying
out any suitable steps of the method of FIG. 8.
Modifying Structured Search Queries
[81]   As discussed previously, FIGs. 7A-7G illustrate example search-results
pages. The structured query used to generate a particular search-results page is
shown in query field 350, and the various search results generated in response
to the structured query are illustrated in results field 710. In response to a
structured query received from a querying user, the social-networking system
 160 may generate one or more query modifications that may be used to refine
or pivot the query. The query modifications may reference particular social
graph elements, allowing the querying user to add or replace the social-graph
elements referenced in a structured query. In particular embodiments, one or
more query modifications may be presented on a search-results page in a
modifications field 720, a suggested-searches field 730, an expanded-searches
field 740, or a disambiguation field 750. Query modifications may be used to
refine or narrow a structured query by adding additional terms to the query. In
general, adding additional terms to a structured query will reduce the number
of search results generated by the query. As an example and not by way of
limitation, in response to the structured query "My friends who go to Stanford
University," the social-networking system 160 may generate query
modifications to the "My friends" term such as, for example, "My
[male/female] friends" to filter the search results by sex, or "My
[single/married] friends" to filter the search results by relationship status.
Query modifications may also be used to pivot or broaden a structured query by
changing one or more terms of the query. As an example and not by way of
limitation, in response to the structured query "My friends who work at
Facebook", the social-networking system 160 may generate the query
modification "work at Acme", which can replace the "work at Facebook" term,
thereby pivoting the query from searching one set of users to searching another

                                         63
set. By providing these suggested query modifications to the querying user, the
social-networking system 160 may provide a powerful way for users to search
for exactly what they are looking for. Once a query modification is selected by
the querying user, a new structured query may be generated using an
appropriate grammar, such that the new structured query is also rendered using
a natural-language syntax. The social-networking system 160 may also generate
alternative structured queries that may be displayed on the search-results page.
These alternative structured queries include suggested queries, broadening
queries, and disambiguation queries, which are described more below.
Although this disclosure describes generating querying modifications in a
particular manner, this disclosure contemplates query modifications in any
suitable manner. Moreover, although this disclosure describes presenting query
modifications to users in a particular manner, this disclosure contemplates
presenting query modifications to users in any suitable manner.
[82]    In particular embodiments, the social-networking system 160 may
generate one or more query modifications. The query modifications may be
generated in response to receiving a first structured query, such that the query
modification may be used to modify the first structured query. A query
modification may be any type of term that can be used to modify a search
query. For example, a query modification may be a text string, an n-gram, a
terminal/query token, a value, a property, a query operator, another suitable
type of term, or any combination thereof. In particular embodiments, the query
modifications may be organized by category. As an example and not by way of
limitation, the modifications field 720 illustrated in FIG. 7A shows query
modifications for "Employer", "School", "Current City", "Hometown".
"Relationship Status", "Interested in", "Friendship", "Gender", "Name", and
"Likes". In particular embodiments, the query modifications may be
transmitted to the querying user as part of the search-results page. As an
example and not by way of limitation, the search-results pages illustrated in
FIGs. 7D, 7E, and 7F all illustrate lists of query modifications displayed in
drop-down menus in the modifications field 720. The query modifications
listed in these drop-down menus may be used to add or replace terms in the

                                        64
structured query displayed in search field 350. In particular embodiments, a
customized query modification may be generated in conjunction with a
typeahead process. Rather than selecting from a list of pre-generated query
modifications, a user may input a text string, and the typeahead process may
identify social-graph elements that correspond to one or more of the n-grams
from the inputted text string. The social-networking system 160 may then
present one or more possible matches. As an example and not by way of
limitation, FIG. 7E illustrates the querying user inputting the string "Harvard"
into an input field for the "School" category in the modifications field 720. In
response, the typeahead process has generated several possible matching query
modifications, including "Harvard", "Harvard Law School", and "Harvard
Westlake", among others. These listed schools displayed in the drop-down
menu are references to concept nodes 204 in the social graph 200 that
correspond to these schools. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates
particular categories of query modifications, this disclosure contemplates any
suitable categories of query modifications.
[83]    In particular embodiments, a query modification may include references
to one or more modifying nodes or one or more modifying edges from the
social graph 200. A modifying node or a modifying edge may be used to add or
replace a reference to a node or edge in the first structured query. The querying
user may then selected one or more of these query modifications to add the
modifying nodes/edges to the first structured query, or by replacing
nodes/edges in the structured query with one or more of the modifying
nodes/edges. As an example and not by way of limitation, FIG. 7D illustrates
an example search-results page generated by the structured query "My friends
who work at Facebook and work at Acme as software engineers". The querying
user may want to refine the search by also specifying a school attended by the
users identified by the search query. To specify a school, the querying user may
click on the "School" drop-down menu, as illustrated in FIG. 7D, which may
display a list of query modifications generated by the social-networking system
 160. In this case, the drop-down menu in FIG. 7D lists the schools "Stanford
University", "Menlo-Atherton High", and "UC Berkeley", among others. These

                                        65
listed schools displayed in the drop-down menu are references to concept nodes
204 in the social graph 200 that correspond to these schools. The querying user
may then select one or more of these query modifications to add the referenced
school to the structured query, thereby filtering the search results by school. In
response to the selection from the querying user, the social-networking system
 160 may modify the structured query to include a reference to the selected
school. As another example and not by way of limitation, FIG. 7B illustrates an
example search-results page generated by the structured query "My friends who
work at Facebook". The reference to "my friends" corresponds to user nodes
202 connected to the querying user by a friend-type edge 206, while the
reference to "Facebook" corresponds to the concept node 204 for the company
"Facebook." These references to particular nodes and edges in the structured
query are shown in the modifications field 720 illustrated in FIG. 7B, where the
category for "Employer" already has the term "Facebook" selected, while the
category for "Friendship" already has the term "My friends" selected. However,
the querying user may want to pivot the search to instead search for friends at
another company. To modify the query, the querying user may select the
"Employer" category to change the reference from "Facebook" to another
company, such as, for example, "Acme." When the querying user selects the
"Employer" category, the social-networking system 160 may display a list of
query modifications that have been generated for that category. In response to a
selection from the querying user, the social-networking system 160 may then
modify the structured query and replace the reference to "Facebook" with a
reference to "Acme" (such that the new structured query would be "My friends
who work at Acme"), thereby pivoting the search from one set of friends to
another. Although this disclosure describes using particular query
modifications in a particular manner, this disclosure contemplates using any
suitable query modifications in any suitable manner.
[84]   In particular embodiments, the social-networking system 160 may
generate a second structured query in response to a selection of one or more of
the query modifications. The querying user may select one or more of the query
modifications from the menus illustrated in modifications field 720, for

                                         66
example, by clicking or otherwise selecting a particular query modification. In
particular embodiments, the query modification may reference additional nodes
or additional edges for the first structured query. In this case, the social
networking system 160 may generate a second structured query comprising
references to the selected nodes and the selected edges from the first structured
query, and each modifying node or modifying edge referenced in the selected
query modification. As an example and not by way of limitation, for the first
structured query "My friends in San Jose", the social-networking system 160
may receive the query modification "work at Acme" (which references
connections to the concept node 204 for "Acme" by a worked-at-type edge
206). The social-networking system 160 may then generate a second structured
query "My friends in San Jose who work at Acme", which incorporates the
addition node and additional edge referenced in the query modification. In
particular embodiments, the query modification may reference alternative
nodes or alternative edges for the first structured query. In this case, the social
networking system 160 may generate a second structured query comprising
references to the selected nodes and the selected edges from the first structured
query, except each reference to an alternative node replaces a reference to a
selected node of the first structured query. Similarly, each reference to an
alternative edge replaces a reference to a selected edge of the first structured
query. As an example and not by way of limitation, for the first structured
query "My friends in San Jose", the social-networking system 160 may receive
the query modification "in San Francisco" (which references connections to the
concept node 204 for the city "San Francisco" by live-in-type edges 206). The
social-networking system 160 may then generate a second structured query "My
friends in San Francisco", which replaces the reference to the selected
node/edge "in San Jose" from the first structured query with the alternative
node/edge "in San Francisco". Although this disclosure describes generating
particular modified structured queries in a particular manner, this disclosure
contemplates generating any suitable modified structured queries in any
suitable manner.

                                          67
[85]   In particular embodiments, the social-networking system 160 may score
one or more query modifications for a first structured query. In response to a
structured query, the social-networking system 160 may identify one or more
query modifications that may be used to modify structured query. The social
networking system 160 may then determine a score for each of the identified
query modifications. When generating a set of query modifications to transmit
to a querying user, only those query modifications having a score greater than a
query-modification-threshold score may be included in the set of query
modifications that are actually transmitted. The score may be, for example, a
confidence score, a probability, a quality, a ranking, another suitable type of
score, or any combination thereof. As an example and not by way of limitation,
the social-networking system 160 may determine a ranking for each query
modification, where only the top six ranked query modifications are included in
a particular search result. In particular embodiments, the social-networking
system 160 may determine a score for a query modification based on the social
relevance of the query modification to the structured query. Query
modifications that reference social-graph elements that are more closely
connected or otherwise relevant to the querying user may be scored more
highly than query modifications that reference social-graph elements that are
not as closely connected or are otherwise less relevant to the querying user. In
particular embodiments, the social-networking system 160 may determine a
score for a query modification based on the number of possible search results
corresponding to the query modification. Query modifications that would
generate more results (i.e., filter out fewer results) may be scored more highly
than query modifications that generate fewer results. In other words, a query
modification that, when used to modify to the first structured query, will match
more results (or more of the current results) may be scored more highly than a
query modification that will match fewer results. As an example and not by
way of limitation, FIG. 7D illustrates possible query modifications for the
"School" category in modification field 720. The query modification
referencing "Stanford University" may be ranked highly in this list of
suggested query modifications because many search results match this

                                         68
limitation. In other words, of the user nodes 202 corresponding to the search
results in results field 710, many of those user nodes 202 may be connected to
the concept node 204 for "Stanford University" by an edge 206. Thus, if a
reference to the concept node 204 for "Stanford University" was added to the
structured query illustrated in query field 350, many of the current search
results would still match the structured query (i.e., few would be filtered out).
Similarly, lower ranked schools in the drop-down menu, such as "Carnegie
Mellon University" and "Santa Clara University" may match fewer of the
current results (i.e., would filter out more results), and as such are ranked
lower. Pivoting query modifications may be scored similarly. In particular
embodiments, the social-networking system 160 may determine a score for a
query modification based on a search history associated with the querying user.
Query modifications referencing social-graph elements that the querying user
has previously accessed, or are relevant to nodes/profile pages the querying
user has previously accessed, may be more likely to be relevant to the user's
structured query. Thus, these query modifications may be given a higher
relative score. As an example and not by way of limitation, if the querying user
has previously search for "My friends at Stanford University", then the social
networking system 160 may determine that the querying user is interested in
user nodes 202 connected to the concept node 204 for "Stanford University."
Thus, in response to subsequent queries, the social-networking system 160 may
rank query modifications referencing "Stanford University" more highly than
other query modifications because of the querying user's history of interest in
that type of contextual information (thus, the search results illustrated in FIG.
7D may have ranked the query modifications for "Stanford University more
highly). In particular embodiments, the social-networking system 160 may
determine a score for a query modification based on advertising sponsorship.
An advertiser (such as, for example, the user or administrator of a particular
profile page corresponding to a particular node) may sponsor a particular node
such that a query modification referencing that node may be scored more
highly. Although this disclosure describes scoring query modifications in a

                                           69
particular manner, this disclosure contemplates scoring query modifications in
any suitable manner.
[86]    In particular embodiments, in response to a first structured query, the
social-networking system 160 may generate one or more second structured
queries to pivot the structured query. Each of these second structured queries
may be based on the first structured query. These may be referred to as
suggested queries. These suggested queries may be variations of the first
structured query, where the suggested query uses at least some of the same
query tokens as the first structured query. However, in order to pivot the query,
one or more of the query tokens from the first structured query may be replaced
with alternative query tokens. In other words, the social-networking system 160
may replace one or more references to selected nodes/edges from the first
structured query with one or more references to alternative nodes/edges in
order to generate one or more second structured queries. The alternative query
tokens may be determined by identifying query tokens that, if substituted into
the first structured query, would produce similar search results. As an example
and not by way of limitation, for the first structured query "My friends who go
to Stanford University", the social-networking system 160 may identify one or
more query tokens that may be substituted into the first structured query. For
example, the query token for "Stanford University" may be replaced by other
schools. As another example, the query tokens for "who go to" and "Stanford
University" may both be replaced by query tokens for "who live in" and "Palo
Alto". This latter example may produce many of the same search results as the
first structured query because of the high overlap between users who live in the
city Palo Alto and users who attend the school Stanford University since the
school is geographical proximate to the city (i.e., in the social graph 200, there
may be a large overlap between user nodes 202 that are connected to the
concept node 204 for "Stanford" and the concept node 204 for "Palo Alto").
The alternative query tokens may also be determined by using templates based
on the original query. As an example and not by way of limitation, if the first
structured query is search for users, the suggested queries may also be searches
for user. Similarly, if the first structured query is a search for photos, the

                                         70
suggested queries may also be searches for photos. In particular embodiments,
the suggested queries may be transmitted to the querying user as part of the
search-results page. As an example and not by way of limitation, the search
results page illustrated in FIG. 7B shows some example suggested queries in
the suggested-searches field 730. In response to the first structured query "My
friends who work at Facebook", the social-networking system 160 generated
the suggested structured queries "My friends of friends who like Facebook" and
"My friends who live in Palo Alto, California", among others, which are shown
in suggested-searches field 730. These suggested queries may have been
generated based on the first structured query, where one or more of the query
tokens from the first structured query have been replaced. Although this
disclosure describes generating structured queries in a particular manner, this
disclosure contemplates generating structured queries in any suitable manner.
[87]   In particular embodiments, in response to a first structured query, the
social-networking system 160 may generate one or more second structured
queries to broaden the structured query. These may be referred to as broadening
queries. These broadening queries may be variations of the first structured
query, where the broadening query uses less query tokens than the first
structured query, or replaces particular query tokens in order to generate more
search results. In other words, the social-networking system 160 may delete
one or more references to selected nodes/edges from the first structured query
in order to generate one or more second structured queries. Similarly, the
social-networking system 160 may replace one or more references to selected
nodes/edges from the first structured query with one or more references to
alternative nodes/edges in order to generate one or more second structured
queries. In this case, the alternative query tokens may be determined by
identifying query tokens that, if substituted into the first structured query,
would produce more search results than the original query token. In particular
embodiments, broadening structured queries may be generated when the search
results corresponding to the first structured query are below a threshold number
of search results. Structured queries with too many limitations, or that use
query tokens that do not match many social-graph entities, may produce few or

                                         71
no results. When a structured query produces too few results, it may be useful
to provide suggests for how to modify that query to generate additional result.
The social-networking system 160 may analyze the first structured query and
provide suggestion for how to modify the query so that it produces more
results. The threshold number of search results may be any suitable number of
results, and may be determined by the social-networking system 160 or be user
defined. In particular embodiments, the social-networking system 160 may
generate one or more second structured queries comprising references to zero
or more selected nodes and zero or more selected edges from the first
structured query, where each second structured query comprises at least one
fewer reference to the selected nodes or the selected edges than the first
structured query. As an example and not by way of limitation, referencing FIG.
7A, in response to the first structured query "People who currently work for
Facebook and like Unicycling", the social-networking system 160 generated the
broadening queries "People who like Unicycling" and "Current Facebook
employees" in expanded-searched field 740. These broadening queries may
have been generated based on the first structured query, where one more or of
the query tokens from the first structured query have been removed (i.e., the
references to "Facebook" and "Unicycling" have been removed, respectively).
By removing limitations from the first structured query, more users should
satisfy the query and thus these queries should generate more search results. In
particular embodiments, the social-networking system 160 may generate one or
more second structured queries comprising references to zero or more selected
nodes and zero or more selected edges from the first structured query, where
each second structured query comprises replaces at least one reference to a
selected node or a selected edge of the first structured query with an alternative
node or an alternative edge, respectively. As an example and not by way of
limitation, referencing FIG. 7A again, the social-networking system 160
generated the broadening queries "People interested in Unicycling Facebook
used to employ" and "People interested in Unicycling Facebook ever
employed". These broadening query may have been generated based on the first
structured query, where the "currently work for" query token has been replaced

                                         72
by "used to employ" and "ever employed" query tokens, respectively, thereby
filtering search results using a different timeframe (which may expand the
types of connecting edges that may satisfy this query from work-at-type edges
206 to also include worked-at-type edges 206). In particular embodiments, the
broadening queries may be transmitted to the querying user as part of the
search-results page. As an example and not by way of limitation, the search
results page illustrated in FIG. 7A shows some example broadening queries in
the expanded-searches field 740, which have been discussed above. Although
this disclosure describes generating particular broadening queries in a
particular manner, this disclosure contemplates generating any suitable
broadening queries in any suitable manner.
[88]    In particular embodiments, in response to a first structured query, the
social-networking system 160 may generate one or more second structured
queries to disambiguate the structured query. These may be referred to as
disambiguation queries. These disambiguation queries may be variations of the
first structured query, where the disambiguation query uses some of the query
tokens from the first structured query, but may also replace some of the query
tokens with alternative query tokens. This may happen where certain nodes may
correspond to the same n-gram from an unstructured text query from the
querying user (e.g., the n-gram for "stanford" could correspond to the concept
node 204 for either the school "Stanford University" or the city "Stanford,
California"). Disambiguation may also be helpful when the referenced edge
types or the relationships between referenced nodes are unclear in the
structured query. The social-networking system 160 may determine that
particular structured queries are ambiguous, in that the natural-language syntax
of the structured query may be interpreted in different ways by the querying
user. Consequently, when selecting a particular structured query, the social
networking system 160 may generate search results that are unexpected or not
what the querying user was looking for. In these cases, the social-networking
system 160 may provide an explanation of how the structured query was parsed
and how it identified the displayed search results. Additionally, the social
networking system 160 may provide variations of the original query to help the

                                         73
querying user find what he or she is looking for. In particular embodiments, the
disambiguation queries may be transmitted to the querying user as part of the
search-results page. As an example and not by way of limitation, the search
results page illustrated in FIG. 7G illustrates an example disambiguation query
displayed in disambiguation field 750. In response to the first structured query
"Photos of my friends from Tennessee", the social-networking system 160
generated the disambiguation query "Photos in Tennessee by my friends". The
social-networking system 160 also provided an explanation of how it parsed the
first structured query, stating that "These results show photos that belong to
friends of yours from Tennessee". In other words, the social-networking system
160 parsed the first structured query to identify concept nodes 204
corresponding to photos that were connected to user nodes 202 by a tagged-in
type edge 206, and where these user nodes 202 were connected to a concept
node 204 for "Tennessee" by a lived-in- or from-type edge 206. In contrast, the
suggested disambiguation query would identify concept nodes 204
corresponding to photos that were connected to the concept node 204 for
"Tennessee" by a taken-in-type edge 206, where the concept nodes 204 for the
photos were also connected to user nodes 202 of the querying user's friends.
Although this disclosure describes generating particular disambiguation queries
in a particular manner, this disclosure contemplates generating any suitable
disambiguation queries in any suitable manner.
[89]    FIG. 9 illustrates an example method 900 for modifying structured
search queries. The method may begin at step 910, where the social-networking
system 160 may access a social graph 200 comprising a plurality of nodes and a
plurality of edges 206 connecting the nodes. The nodes may comprise a first
user node 202 and a plurality of second nodes (one or more user nodes 202,
concepts nodes 204, or any combination thereof). At step 920, the social
networking system 160 may receiving from the first user a structured query
comprising references to one or more selected node from the plurality of
second nodes and one or more selected edges from the plurality of edges. At
step 930, the social-networking system 160 may generate one or more query
modifications for the first structured query. Each query modification may

                                         74
comprises reference to one or more modifying nodes form the plurality of
second nodes or one or more modifying edges from the plurality of edges.
Particular embodiments may repeat one or more steps of the method of FIG. 9,
where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular
steps of the method of FIG. 9 as occurring in a particular order, this disclosure
contemplates any suitable steps of the method of FIG. 9 occurring in any
suitable order. Moreover, although this disclosure describes and illustrates
particular components, devices, or systems carrying out particular steps of the
method of FIG. 9, this disclosure contemplates any suitable combination of any
suitable components, devices, or systems carrying out any suitable steps of the
method of FIG. 9.
Systems and Methods
[90]    FIG. 10 illustrates an example computer system 1000. In particular
embodiments, one or more computer systems 1000 perform one or more steps
of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. In particular
embodiments, one or more computer systems 1000 provide functionality
described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments, software running on
one or more computer systems 1000 performs one or more steps of one or more
methods described or illustrated herein or provides functionality described or
illustrated herein. Particular embodiments include one or more portions of one
or more computer systems 1000. Herein, reference to a computer system may
encompass a computing device, and vice versa, where appropriate. Moreover,
reference to a computer system may encompass one or more computer systems,
where appropriate.
[91]    This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems
1000. This disclosure contemplates computer system 1000 taking any suitable
physical form. As example and not by way of limitation, computer system 1000
may be an embedded computer system, a system-on-chip (SOC), a single-board
computer system (SBC) (such as, for example, a computer-on-module (COM)
or system-on-module (SOM)), a desktop computer system, a laptop or notebook
computer system, an interactive kiosk, a mainframe, a mesh of computer

                                         75
systems, a mobile telephone, a personal digital assistant (PDA), a server, a
tablet computer system, or a combination of two or more of these. Where
appropriate, computer system 1000 may include one or more computer systems
 1000; be unitary or distributed; span multiple locations; span multiple
machines; span multiple data centers; or reside in a cloud, which may include
one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate,
one or more computer systems 1000 may perform without substantial spatial or
temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or
illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation, one or more
computer systems 1000 may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more
steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more
computer systems 1000 may perform at different times or at different locations
one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein, where
appropriate.
[92]    In particular embodiments, computer system 1000 includes a processor
 1002, memory 1004, storage 1006, an input/output (I/O) interface 1008, a
communication interface 1010, and a bus 1012. Although this disclosure
describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular
number of particular components in a particular arrangement, this disclosure
contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any
suitable components in any suitable arrangement.
[93]    In particular embodiments, processor 1002 includes hardware for
executing instructions, such as those making up a computer program. As an
example and not by way of limitation, to execute instructions, processor 1002
may retrieve (or fetch) the instructions from an internal register, an internal
cache, memory 1004, or storage 1006; decode and execute them; and then write
one or more results to an internal register, an internal cache, memory 1004, or
storage 1006. In particular embodiments, processor 1002 may include one or
more internal caches for data, instructions, or addresses. This disclosure
contemplates processor 1002 including any suitable number of any suitable
internal caches, where appropriate. As an example and not by way of
limitation, processor 1002 may include one or more instruction caches, one or

                                         76
more data caches, and one or more translation lookaside buffers (TLBs).
Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory
 1004 or storage 1006, and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of
those instructions by processor 1002. Data in the data caches may be copies of
data in memory 1004 or storage 1006 for instructions executing at processor
 1002 to operate on; the results of previous instructions executed at processor
 1002 for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor 1002 or for
writing to memory 1004 or storage 1006; or other suitable data. The data
caches may speed up read or write operations by processor 1002. The TLBs
may speed up virtual-address translation for processor 1002. In particular
embodiments, processor 1002 may include one or more internal registers for
data, instructions, or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor 1002
including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers, where
appropriate. Where appropriate, processor 1002 may include one or more
arithmetic logic units (ALUs); be a multi-core processor; or include one or
more processors 1002. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a
particular processor, this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.
[94]   In particular embodiments, memory 1004 includes main memory for
storing instructions for processor 1002 to execute or data for processor 1002 to
operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation, computer system 1000
may load instructions from storage 1006 or another source (such as, for
example, another computer system 1000) to memory 1004. Processor 1002 may
then load the instructions from memory 1004 to an internal register or internal
cache. To execute the instructions, processor 1002 may retrieve the instructions
from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after
execution of the instructions, processor 1002 may write one or more results
(which may be intermediate or final results) to the internal register or internal
cache. Processor 1002 may then write one or more of those results to memory
 1004. In particular embodiments, processor 1002 executes only instructions in
one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory 1004 (as
opposed to storage 1006 or elsewhere) and operates only on data in one or more
internal registers or internal caches or in memory 1004 (as opposed to storage

                                          77
 1006 or elsewhere). One or more memory buses (which may each include an
address bus and a data bus) may couple processor 1002 to memory 1004. Bus
 1012 may include one or more memory buses, as described below. In particular
embodiments, one or more memory management units (MMUs) reside between
processor 1002 and memory 1004 and facilitate accesses to memory 1004
requested by processor 1002. In particular embodiments, memory 1004 includes
random access memory (RAM). This RAM may be volatile memory, where
appropriate where appropriate, this RAM may be dynamic RAM (DRAM) or
static RAM (SRAM). Moreover, where appropriate, this RAM may be single
ported or multi-ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM.
Memory 1004 may include one or more memories 1004, where appropriate.
Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory, this
disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.
[95]    In particular embodiments, storage 1006 includes mass storage for data
or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation, storage 1006 may
include a hard disk drive (HDD), a floppy disk drive, flash memory, an optical
disc, a magneto-optical disc, magnetic tape, or a Universal Serial Bus (USB)
drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage 1006 may include
removable or non-removable (or fixed) media, where appropriate. Storage 1006
may be internal or external to computer system 1000, where appropriate. In
particular embodiments, storage 1006 is non-volatile, solid-state memory. In
particular embodiments, storage 1006 includes read-only memory (ROM).
Where appropriate, this ROM may be mask-programmed ROM, programmable
ROM (PROM), erasable PROM (EPROM), electrically erasable PROM
(EEPROM), electrically alterable ROM (EAROM), or flash memory or a
combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass
storage 1006 taking any suitable physical form. Storage 1006 may include one
or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor
 1002 and storage 1006, where appropriate. Where appropriate, storage 1006
may include one or more storages 1006. Although this disclosure describes and
illustrates particular storage, this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

                                          78
[96]   In particular embodiments, I/O interface 1008 includes hardware,
software, or both, providing one or more interfaces for communication between
computer system 1000 and one or more I/O devices. Computer system 1000
may include one or more of these I/O devices, where appropriate. One or more
of these I/O devices may enable communication between a person and computer
system 1000. As an example and not by way of limitation, an I/O device may
include a keyboard, keypad, microphone, monitor, mouse, printer, scanner,
speaker, still camera, stylus, tablet, touch screen, trackball, video camera,
another suitable I/O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I/O
device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any
suitable I/O devices and any suitable I/O interfaces 1008 for them. Where
appropriate, I/O interface 1008 may include one or more device or software
drivers enabling processor 1002 to drive one or more of these I/O devices. I/O
interface 1008 may include one or more I/O interfaces 1008, where appropriate.
Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I/O interface, this
disclosure contemplates any suitable I/O interface.
[97]   In particular embodiments, communication interface 1010 includes
hardware, software, or both providing one or more interfaces for
communication (such as, for example, packet-based communication) between
computer system 1000 and one or more other computer systems 1000 or one or
more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation, communication
interface 1010 may include a network interface controller (NIC) or network
adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire-based network or a
wireless NIC (WNIC) or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless
network, such as a WI-Fl network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable
network and any suitable communication interface 1010 for it. As an example
and not by way of limitation, computer system 1000 may communicate with an
ad hoc network, a personal area network (PAN), a local area network (LAN), a
wide area network (WAN), a metropolitan area network (MAN), or one or more
portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more
portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an
example, computer system 1000 may communicate with a wireless PAN

                                          79
(WPAN) (such as, for example, a BLUETOOTH WPAN), a WI-FI network, a
WI-MAX network, a cellular telephone network (such as, for example, a Global
System for Mobile Communications (GSM) network), or other suitable wireless
network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system 1000 may
include any suitable communication interface 1010 for any of these networks,
where appropriate. Communication interface 1010 may include one or more
communication interfaces 1010, where appropriate. Although this disclosure
describes and illustrates a particular communication interface, this disclosure
contemplates any suitable communication interface.
[98]    In particular embodiments, bus 1012 includes hardware, software, or
both coupling components of computer system 1000 to each other. As an
example and not by way of limitation, bus 1012 may include an Accelerated
Graphics Port (AGP) or other graphics bus, an Enhanced Industry Standard
Architecture (EISA) bus, a front-side bus (FSB), a HYPERTRANSPORT (HT)
interconnect, an Industry Standard Architecture (ISA) bus, an INFINIBAND
interconnect, a low-pin-count (LPC) bus, a memory bus, a Micro Channel
Architecture (MCA) bus, a Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI) bus, a
PCI-Express (PCIe) bus, a serial advanced technology attachment (SATA) bus,
a Video Electronics Standards Association local (VLB) bus, or another suitable
bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus 1012 may include one or
more buses 1012, where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and
illustrates a particular bus, this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or
interconnect.
[99]    Herein, a computer-readable non-transitory storage medium or media
may include one or more semiconductor-based or other integrated circuits (ICs)
(such, as for example, field-programmable gate arrays (FPGAs) or application
specific ICs (ASICs)), hard disk drives (HDDs), hybrid hard drives (HHDs),
optical discs, optical disc drives (ODDs), magneto-optical discs, magneto
optical drives, floppy diskettes, floppy disk drives (FDDs), magnetic tapes,
solid-state drives (SSDs), RAM-drives, SECURE DIGITAL cards or drives, any
other suitable computer-readable non-transitory storage media, or any suitable
combination of two or more of these, where appropriate. A computer-readable

                                           80
non-transitory storage medium may be volatile, non-volatile, or a combination
of volatile and non-volatile, where appropriate.
Further Embodiments
[100]       One embodiment of the present disclosure provides a method
comprising, by a computing device:
        accessing a social graph comprising a plurality of nodes and a plurality
of edges connecting the nodes, each of the edges between two of the nodes
representing a single degree of separation between them, the nodes comprising:
               a first node corresponding to a first user associated with an online
        social network; and
               a plurality of second nodes that each correspond to a concept or a
        second user associated with the online social network;
        receiving from the first user a first structured query comprising
references to one or more selected nodes from the plurality of second nodes and
one or more selected edges from the plurality of edges; and
        generating one or more query modifications for the first structured
query, each query modification comprising references to one or more
modifying nodes from the plurality of second nodes or one or more modifying
edges from the plurality of edges.
[101]      In one arrangement, the references to the modifying nodes and the
modifying edges are references to additional nodes or additional edges for the
first structured query.
[102]      In another arrangement, the references to the modifying nodes and the
modifying edges are references to alternative nodes or alternative edges for the
first structured query, each reference to an alternative node replacing a
reference to a selected node of the first structured query, each reference to an
alternative edge replacing a reference to a selected edge of the first structured
query.
[103]      In another arrangement, the method further comprises:
        determining a score for each query modification; and

                                         81
       transmitting one or more of the query modifications having a score
greater than a threshold score to the first user.
[104]     In another arrangement, determining the score for each query
modification is based on a search history associated with the first user and/or
on a social relevance of the query modification to the first structured query
and/or on a number of possible search results corresponding to the query
modification.
[105]     In another arrangement, the method further comprises generating one
or more search results corresponding to the first structured query, wherein each
search result corresponds to a second node of the plurality of second nodes that
is connected to at least one of the selected nodes by at least one of the selected
edges.
[106]     In another arrangement, each search result comprises one or more
snippets, each snippet comprising contextual information about the second node
corresponding to the search result; and/or each search result comprises a query
modification for the first structured query comprising a reference to the second
node corresponding to the search result.
[107]     In another arrangement, each search result comprises a second
structured query comprising a reference to the second node corresponding to
the search result.
[108]     In another arrangement, the method further comprises transmitting
one or more of the search results to the first user.
[109]     In another arrangement, if the one or more search results
corresponding to the first query is a number below a threshold number of
search result, then:
       generating one or more second structured queries comprising references
to zero or more selected nodes and zero or more selected edges from the first
structured query, each second structured query comprising at least one fewer
reference to the selected nodes or the selected edges than the first structured
query; and
       transmitting the one or more second structured queries to the first user.
[110]     In another arrangement, the method further comprises:

                                         82
        generating one or more second structured queries based on the first
structured query; and
        transmitting the one or more second structured queries to the first user.
[111]       In another arrangement, generating the one or more query
modifications for the first structured query comprises:
        accessing a context-free grammar model comprising a plurality of
grammars, each grammar comprising one or more query tokens;
        identifying one or more grammars, each identified grammar having query
tokens corresponding to each of the selected nodes and selected edges
referenced in the first structured query and at least one additional query token
or alternate query token; and
        generating one or more query modifications corresponding to one or
more of the additional query tokens or one or more of the alternate query
tokens from the identified grammars.
[112]       In another arrangement, the method further comprises transmitting
one or more of the query modifications to the first user;
        preferably further comprising:
        receiving a selection of one or more of the query modification from the
first user; and
        generating a second structured query comprising references to the
selected nodes, the selected edges, and each additional node or additional edge
referenced in the selected query modifications.
[113]       Another embodiment of the present disclosure provides one or more
computer-readable non-transitory storage media embodying software that is
operable when executed to perform a method according to the embodiment
above.
[114]       Another embodiment of the present disclosure provides a system
comprising: one or more processors; and a memory coupled to the processors
comprising instructions executable by the processors, the processors operable
when executing the instructions to perform a method according to the
embodiment above.

                                          83
[115]      Another embodiment of the present disclosure provides one or more
computer-readable non-transitory storage media embodying software that is
operable when executed to:
       access a social graph comprising a plurality of nodes and a plurality of
edges connecting the nodes, each of the edges between two of the nodes
representing a single degree of separation between them, the nodes comprising:
              a first node corresponding to a first user associated with an online
       social network; and
              a plurality of second nodes that each correspond to a concept or a
       second user associated with the online social network;
       receive from the first user a first structured query comprising references
to one or more selected nodes from the plurality of second nodes and one or
more selected edges from the plurality of edges; and
        generate one or more query modifications for the first structured query,
each query modification comprising references to one or more modifying nodes
from the plurality of second nodes or one or more modifying edges from the
plurality of edges.
[116]      Another embodiment of the present disclosure provides a system
comprising: one or more processors; and a memory coupled to the processors
comprising instructions executable by the processors, the processors operable
when executing the instructions to:
        access a social graph comprising a plurality of nodes and a plurality of
edges connecting the nodes, each of the edges between two of the nodes
representing a single degree of separation between them, the nodes comprising:
              a first node corresponding to a first user associated with an online
       social network; and
              a plurality of second nodes that each correspond to a concept or a
       second user associated with the online social network;
       receive from the first user a first structured query comprising references
to one or more selected nodes from the plurality of second nodes and one or
more selected edges from the plurality of edges; and

                                           84
        generate one or more query modifications for the first structured query,
each query modification comprising references to one or more modifying nodes
from the plurality of second nodes or one or more modifying edges from the
plurality of edges.
Miscellaneous
[117] Herein, "or" is inclusive and not exclusive, unless expressly indicated
otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore, herein, "A or B" means
"A, B, or both," unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by
context. Moreover, "and" is both joint and several, unless expressly indicated
otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore, herein, "A and B"
means "A and B, jointly or severally," unless expressly indicated otherwise or
indicated otherwise by context.
[118] The scope of this disclosure encompasses all changes, substitutions,
variations, alterations, and modifications to the example embodiments
described or illustrated herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art
would comprehend. The scope of this disclosure is not limited to the example
embodiments described or illustrated herein. Moreover, although this disclosure
describes and illustrates respective embodiments herein as including particular
components, elements, functions, operations, or steps, any of these
embodiments may include any combination or permutation of any of the
components, elements, functions, operations, or steps described or illustrated
anywhere herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would
comprehend. Furthermore, reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or
system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to, arranged to,
capable of, configured to, enabled to, operable to, or operative to perform a
particular function encompasses that apparatus, system, component, whether or
not it or that particular function is activated, turned on, or unlocked, as long as
that apparatus, system, or component is so adapted, arranged, capable,
configured, enabled, operable, or operative.

                                         85
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
    1. A method comprising, by a computing system:
       receiving, from a client system of a first user of an online social
network, a query input comprising one or more n-grams;
       sending, to the client system of the first user, instructions for presenting
one or more suggested modifications for the query input, each suggested
modification comprising references to one or more objects associated with the
online social network;
       receiving, from the client system of the first user, an indication of a
selection of one of the suggested modifications;
       parsing, using a context-free grammar model, the query input and the
selected suggested modification to generate an executable query command,
wherein the context-free grammar model comprising a plurality of grammars,
each grammar comprising one or more non-terminal tokens and one or more
query tokens, each grammar being an ordered sub-tree adjoining one or more
other grammars via a non-terminal token, and wherein the query command
corresponds to a particular grammar of the plurality of grammars; and
       sending, to the client system of the first user, instructions for presenting
one or more search results corresponding to the query command.
    2. The method of Claim 1, wherein the query input is a natural-language
string generated by a grammar model of the context-free grammar model and
references to one or more objects associated with the online social network.
    3. The method of Claim 2, wherein each suggested modification is
selectable by the first user to modify the natural-language string of the query
input to further comprise references to the one or more of the objects
referenced in the suggested modification.
    4. The method of Claim 1, wherein the query input is an unstructured text
query comprising one or more characters inputted by the first user.

                                         86
   5. The method of any one of Claims 1 to 4, wherein each suggested
modification comprises one or more additional n-grams for the query input.
    6. The method of any one of Claims 1 to 4, wherein each suggested
modification comprises one or more alternative n-grams for the query input.
    7. The method of any one of Claims 1 to 6, further comprising:
        generating, responsive to receiving the query input, one or more
suggested modifications for the query input; and
        calculating a score for each suggested modification, wherein a threshold
number of top scoring suggested modifications are sent to the client system of
the first user.
    8.  The method of Claim 7, wherein calculating the score for each suggested
modification is based on a search history associated with the first user.
    9. The method of Claim 7, wherein calculating the score for each suggested
modification is based on a social relevance of the suggested modification to the
query input.
    10.The method of Claim 7, wherein calculating the score for each suggested
modification is based on a number of possible search results corresponding to
the suggested modification.
    11.The method of any one of Claims I to 10, further comprising:
        generating one or more search results corresponding to the query
command, wherein each search result corresponds to an object associated with
the online social network that is connected to at least one of the referenced
objects in the selected suggested modification.
    12.The method of Claim 11, wherein each search result comprises one or
more snippets, each snippet comprising contextual information about the object
corresponding to the search result.

                                         87
    13.The method of any one of Claims 1 to 12, wherein if the one or more
search results corresponding to the query command is a number below a
threshold number of search result, then:
       generating one or more one or more additional suggested modifications
for the query input, each additional suggested modifications comprising at least
one fewer reference to the objects than the selected suggested modification;
and
       sending, to the client system of the first user, instructions for presenting
the one or more additional suggested modifications for display to the first user.
    14.The method of any one of Claims I to 13, further comprising:
       generating one or more additional suggested modifications based on the
query input and the selected suggested modification; and
       sending, to the client system of the first user, instructions for presenting
the one or more additional suggested modifications.
    15.The method of any one of Claims I to 14, wherein parsing the query
input and the selected suggested modification to generate the executable query
command comprises:
       accessing the context-free grammar model;
       comparing the query input and the selected suggested modification to
one or more grammars of the context-free grammar model; and
       generating the query command based on the particular grammar having
one or more query tokens corresponding to one or more objects matching the
query input or the selected suggested modification.
    16.The method of any one of Claims 1 to 15, further comprising:
       accessing a social graph comprising a plurality of nodes and a plurality
of edges connecting the nodes, each of the edges between two of the nodes
representing a single degree of separation between them, the nodes comprising:
              a first node corresponding to the first user; and
              a plurality of second nodes corresponding to a plurality of objects
       associated with the online social network, respectively.

                                         88
    17.The method of Claim 16, wherein the one or more objects referenced in
the suggested modifications correspond to one or more nodes from the plurality
of second nodes or one or more edges from the plurality of edges.
    18.One or more computer-readable non-transitory storage media embodying
software that is operable when executed to:
       receive, from a client system of a first user of an online social network, a
query input comprising one or more n-grams;
       send, to the client system of the first user, instructions for presenting one
or more suggested modifications for the query input, each suggested
modification comprising references to one or more objects associated with the
online social network;
       receive, from the client system of the first user, an indication of a
selection of one of the suggested modifications;
       parse, using a context-free grammar model, the query input and the
selected suggested modification to generate an executable query command,
wherein the context-free grammar model comprising a plurality of grammars,
each grammar comprising one or more non-terminal tokens and one or more
query tokens, each grammar being an ordered sub-tree adjoining one or more
other grammars via a non-terminal token, and wherein the query command
corresponds to a particular grammar of the plurality of grammars; and
       send, to the client system of the first user, instructions for presenting one
or more search results corresponding to the query command.
    19.A system comprising: one or more processors; and a memory coupled to
the processors comprising instructions executable by the processors, the
processors operable when executing the instructions to:
       receive, from a client system of a first user of an online social network, a
query input comprising one or more n-grams;
       send, to the client system of the first user, instructions for presenting one
or more suggested modifications for the query input, each suggested
modification comprising references to one or more objects associated with the
online social network;

                                          89
       receive, from the client system of the first user, an indication of a
selection of one of the suggested modifications;
       parse, using a context-free grammar model, the query input and the
selected suggested modification to generate an executable query command,
wherein the context-free grammar model comprising a plurality of grammars,
each grammar comprising one or more non-terminal tokens and one or more
query tokens, each grammar being an ordered sub-tree adjoining one or more
other grammars via a non-terminal token, and wherein the query command
corresponds to a particular grammar of the plurality of grammars; and
       send, to the client system of the first user, instructions for presenting one
or more search results corresponding to the query command.
                                 Facebook, Inc.
                         By Patent Attorneys for the Applicant
                              COTTERS
                            Patent & Trade Mark Attorneys

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
