Abstract
Techniques to manage dwell times for pilot rotation are described. An apparatus may comprise a
memory configured to store a data structure with a set of modulation and coding schemes (MCS)
available to an orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (OFDM) system, each MCS having an
associated pilot dwell time. The apparatus may further comprise a processor circuit coupled to the
memory, the processor circuit configured to identify a MCS to communicate a packet using multiple
subcarriers of the OFDM system, and retrieve a pilot dwell time associated with the MCS from the
memory, the pilot dwell time to indicate when to shift a pilot tone between subcarriers of the
multiple subcarriers during communication of the packet. Other embodiments are described and
claimed.

WO 2013/130460                            PCT/US2013/027782
                 1 - ----   ---1
                          ---
                        ---           /14
        ---------
        - ---------
                     0    -----------
  (00

   WO 2013/130460                                                           PCT/US2013/027782
                                                1
         TECHNIQUES TO MANAGE DWELL TIMES FOR PILOT ROTATION
                                          BACKGROUND
            Sensor networks have numerous applications, such as security, industrial
   monitoring, military reconnaissance, and biomedical monitoring. In many such
 5 applications, it is either inconvenient or impossible to connect the sensors by wire or
   cable; a wireless network is preferable. Sensor networks may be implemented indoors or
   outdoors. Seismic sensors, for example, may be used to detect intrusion or movement of
   vehicles, personnel, or large earth masses.
            The detection of vehicles and personnel is more difficult than detecting large
10 signals, as from earthquakes or movement of earth masses. The reliable detection or
   tracking over large areas thus requires very large numbers of sensitive detectors, spaced
   closely. Although placing sensor nodes in the environment is relatively easy, and
   configuring them in a network is manageable, a problem faced by sensor networks is that
   determining where they are in geographic coordinate locations is difficult and expensive.
15 A wireless network of numerous sensitive, low cost, low-powered sensor stations is more
   desirable. However, the resulting overhead for channel estimation is usually prohibitive in
   a wireless sensor network.
           A wireless communications standard is being developed by the Institute of
   Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 802.11 ah (11 ah) task group. IEEE 802.11 ah
20 (11 ah) is a new technology evolution for WiFi and is in the standards development phase;
   very low data rate operation is being enabled. In IEEE 802.11 a/g, 20MHz channel widths
   were defined and in IEEE 802.1 In 40MHz was added and then in IEEE 802.11 ac both 80
   and 160MHz. In the past the evolution of WiFi has been to increase data rate, but IEEE
   802.11 ah (11 ah) actually targets comparatively lower rate services.
25                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
            The subject matter regarded as the invention is particularly pointed out and
   distinctly claimed in the concluding portion of the specification. The invention, however,
   both as to organization and method of operation, together with objects, features, and
   advantages thereof, may best be understood by reference to the following detailed
30 description when read with the accompanying drawings in which:
            FIG. 1A illustrates the concept of sensor network deployment in accordance with
   an embodiment;

   WO 2013/130460                                                            PCT/US2013/027782
                                                 2
           FIG. 1B is an exemplary communication device suitable for implementing
   different embodiments of the disclosure;
           FIG. IC is a diagram with fixed pilots in accordance with one embodiment;
           FIG. 2 is a first diagram of a packet/frame with pilot tones transmitted by a
 5 transmitter in accordance with an embodiment;
           FIG. 3 illustrates a method for pilot shifting in an orthogonal frequency division
   multiplexing (OFDM) based communication system in accordance to an embodiment;
           FIG. 4 is an illustrates part of a transceiver with equalizer for processing pilot
   tones and data tones in accordance with an embodiment;
10         FIG. 5 is a flowchart of a method for tone allocation in a transmitter in accordance
   with an embodiment;
           FIG. 6 is an exemplary pilot dwell time table in accordance with one embodiment;
           FIG. 7 is a second diagram of a packet/frame with pilot tones transmitted by a
   transmitter in accordance with an embodiment;
15         FIG. 8 is a third diagram of a packet/frame with pilot tones transmitted by a
   transmitter in accordance with an embodiment;
           FIG. 9 is a diagram illustrating system performance with a modulation and coding
   scheme (MCS) zero (0) from the pilot dwell time table shown in FIG. 6 in accordance with
   one embodiment;
20         FIG. 10 is a diagram illustrating system performance with a MCS three (3) from
   the pilot dwell time table shown in FIG. 6 in accordance with one embodiment;
           FIG. 11 is a second flowchart of a method for tone allocation in a transmitter in
   accordance with an embodiment; and
           FIG. 12 is a third flowchart of a method for tone allocation in a receiver in
25 accordance with an embodiment.
                                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
           Various embodiments relate generally to wireless communications and more
   particularly to techniques for transmitting and receiving pilot tones. Embodiments may
   include improved techniques to manage pilot dwell times (N) for pilot rotation for a
30 wireless multicarrier system. The improved techniques to manage pilot dwell times (N)
   may be advantageous for a number of application scenarios, such as managing shifting of
   pilot tones in a pilot tone shifting technique, managing pilot tone dwell times for space
   time block code (STBC) techniques, managing pilot tone dwell times for transmit

   WO 2013/130460                                                           PCT/US2013/027782
                                                 3
   beamforming (TxBF) techniques, or any other communications techniques that may use
   fixed or variable pilot tone dwell times. The embodiments are not limited in this context.
            An apparatus may comprise a memory configured to store a data structure with a
   set of modulation and coding schemes (MCS) available to an orthogonal frequency
 5 division multiplexing (OFDM) system, such as an IEEE 802.11 ah system, among others.
   Each MCS may have an associated pilot dwell time (N). A pilot dwell time (N) may
   indicate a number of symbols to communicate a pilot tone on a subcarrier in a multicarrier
   system before shifting the pilot tone to another subcarrier in the multicarrier system. The
   apparatus may further comprise a processor circuit coupled to the memory, the processor
10 circuit configured to identify a MCS to communicate a packet using multiple subcarriers
   of the OFDM system, and retrieve a pilot dwell time (N) associated with the MCS from
   the memory. The pilot dwell time (N) may indicate when to shift a pilot tone between
   subcarriers of the multiple subcarriers during communication of the packet. In this
   manner, a variable pilot dwell time (N) may be used to optimize performance of an OFDM
15 system without adding any signaling overhead, thereby conserving bandwidth, power, and
   other valuable system resources. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
            In a communications system, there is a need for an approach where a platform may
   facilitate updating an equalizer. A transmitter transmits one or more pilot tones in each
   orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (OFDM) symbol set and there are typically
20 many OFDM symbols in a protocol data unit (PDU) or packet. With fixed pilot allocation
   the receiver is able to track the received signal sufficiently accurate with the pilot tones
   under most static channel conditions. According to embodiments the pilot tones may be
   rotated through each of the subcarriers over the packet. The pilot tones could for example
   be separated by a number of data subcarriers so as to simplify the estimation of slope and
25 intercept for subcarrier tracking. As the pilot tones are swept across the band, the taps for
   the equalizer for the subcarriers for which the pilot tones currently populate would be
   updated as well. This approach allows the system to track channel changes over time
   when the channel is nonstationary.
            According to one embodiment, a method comprises wirelessly transmitting a
30 packet using a plurality of subcarriers; and sequentially assigning one or more pilot tones
   to one or more of the plurality of subcarriers during a time period of the packet so that a
   communication system receiving the packet can track channel changes over time.

   WO 2013/130460                                                          PCT/US2013/027782
                                               4
           According to another embodiment, an apparatus comprises a transmission channel
   to wirelessly transmit a packet using a plurality of subcarriers, wherein the transmission
   channel sequentially assigns one or more pilot tones to one or more of the plurality of
   subcarriers during a time period of the packet; and a channel estimation module coupled to
 5 an input module and configured to calculate channel estimates of the transmission channel
   from the one or more pilot tones; wherein sequentially assigning one or more pilot tones
   allows a system receiving the packet to track transmission channel changes over time.
           According to yet another embodiment, the channel estimation module in an
   apparatus comprises equalizer taps, the equalizer taps having an input coupled to an
10 adaptive algorithm process and the equalizer taps having an equalizer coefficients output
   coupled to generate channel changes.
           According to another embodiment, a non-transitory machine-accessible medium
   provides instructions, which when accessed, cause a machine to perform operations, the
   non-transitory machine-accessible medium comprising code to cause at least one computer
15 to wirelessly transmit a packet using a plurality of subcarriers and to sequentially assign
   one or more pilot tones to one or more of the plurality of subcarriers during a time period
   of the packet; and code to cause at least one computer, in a channel estimation module
   coupled to an input module, to calculate channel estimates of a transmission channel from
   the one or more pilot tones; wherein sequentially assigning one or more pilot tones allows
20 a system receiving the packet to track transmission channel changes over time.
           Exemplary embodiments are described herein. It is envisioned, however, that any
   system that incorporates features of any apparatus, method and/or system described herein
   are encompassed by the scope and spirit of the exemplary embodiments.
           Additional features and advantages of the disclosure will be set forth in the
25 description which follows, and in part will be obvious from the description, or may be
   learned by practice of the disclosure. The features and advantages of the disclosure may
   be realized and obtained by means of the instruments and combinations particularly
   pointed out in the appended claims. These and other features of the present disclosure will
   become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims, or may
30 be learned by the practice of the disclosure as set forth herein.
           An algorithm, technique or process is here, and generally, considered to be a self
   consistent sequence of acts or operations leading to a desired result. These include
   physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually, though not necessarily, these

   WO 2013/130460                                                             PCT/US2013/027782
                                                5
   quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored,
   transferred, combined, compared, and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at
   times, principally for reasons of common usage, to refer to these signals as bits, values,
   elements, symbols, characters, terms, numbers or the like. It should be understood,
 5 however, that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate
   physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities.
            References to "one embodiment," ''an embodiment," ''example embodiment,"
   "various embodiments," etc., indicate that the embodiment(s) of the invention so described
   may include a particular feature, structure, or characteristic, but not every embodiment
10 necessarily includes the particular feature, structure, or characteristic. Further, repeated
   use of the phrase "in one embodiment" does not necessarily refer to the same embodiment,
   although it may.
           As used herein, unless otherwise specified the use of the ordinal adjectives "first,"
   "second," "third," etc., to describe a common object, merely indicate that different
15 instances of like objects are being referred to, and are not intended to imply that the
   objects so described must be in a given sequence, either temporally, spatially, in ranking,
   or in any other manner.
           Although embodiments of the invention are not limited in this regard, discussions
   utilizing terms such as, for example, "processing," "computing," "calculating,"
20 "determining," "applying," "receiving," "establishing", "analyzing", "checking", or the
   like, may refer to operation(s) and/or process(es) of a computer, a computing platform, a
   computing system, or other electronic computing device, that manipulate and/or transform
   data represented as physical (e.g., electronic) quantities within the computer's registers
   and/or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the
25 computer's registers and/or memories or other information storage medium that may store
   instructions to perform operations and/or processes.
           Although embodiments of the invention are not limited in this regard, the terms
   "plurality" and "a plurality" as used herein may include, for example, "multiple" or "two or
   more". The terms "plurality" or "a plurality" may be used throughout the specification to
30 describe two or more components, devices, elements, units, parameters, or the like. For
   example, "a plurality of resistors" may include two or more resistors.
            The term "controller" is used herein generally to describe various apparatus
   relating to the operation of one or more device that directs or regulates a process or

   WO 2013/130460                                                          PCT/US2013/027782
                                               6
   machine. A controller can be implemented in numerous ways (e.g., such as with dedicated
   hardware) to perform various functions discussed herein. A "processor" is one example of
   a controller which employs one or more microprocessors (or processor circuits) that may
   be programmed using software (e.g., microcode) to perform various functions discussed
 5 herein. A controller may be implemented with or without employing a processor, and also
   may be implemented as a combination of dedicated hardware to perform some functions
   and a processor (e.g., one or more programmed microprocessors and associated circuitry)
   to perform other functions.
           The term "wireless device" as used herein includes, for example, a device capable
10 of wireless communication, a communication device capable of wireless communication,
   a mobile terminal, a communication station capable of wireless communication, a portable
   or non-portable device capable of wireless communication, mobile terminal, or the like.
           As used herein, the term "network" is used in its broadest sense to mean any
   system capable of passing communications from one entity to another. Thus, for example,
15 a network can be, but is not limited to, a wide area network, a WiFi network, a cellular
   network, and/or any combination thereof.
           As used herein, a "sensor network" is a wireless or wired network of nodes in
   which at least some of the nodes collect sensory data. A wireless sensor network (WSN) is
   a wireless network consisting of spatially distributed sensors to cooperatively monitor
20 physical or environmental conditions. In many situations, a plurality, majority or even all
   of the nodes in a sensor network collect sensory data. Sensory data may include external
   sensory data obtained by measuring/detecting natural sources such as temperature, sound,
   wind, seismic activity or the like. Sensory data may also include external sensory data
   obtained by measuring/detecting man-made sources such as light, sound, various
25 frequency spectrum signals, and the like. Sensory data may alternatively include data
   related to measuring/detecting sources internal to a sensor node (e.g., traffic flow on a
   network, and the like).
           In IEEE 802.11 ah (11 ah), which is a new technology evolution for WiFi and is in
   the standards development phase, very low data rate operation is being enabled. In IEEE
30 802.11 a/g, 20MHz channel widths were defined and in IEEE 802.1 In 40MHz was added
   and then in IEEE 802.11 ac both 80 and 160MHz. In the past the evolution of WiFi has
   been to increase data rate, but IEEE 802.11 ah actually targets comparatively lower rate
   services. In IEEE 802.1 lah the bandwidths defined are 1MHz and a set of down-clocked

   WO 2013/130460                                                             PCT/US2013/027782
                                                  7
   IEEE 802.11 ac rates, namely 2, 4, 8 and 16MHz, where the down clocking is 10. The
    1MHz rate is not derived from the IEEE 802.1 1n/ac rates, and thus this bandwidth mode is
   being designed more or less independently. Thus far in the process, the 1MHz system is
   likely to use a 32 point FFT (as opposed to the minimum of 64 in IEEE 802.1 lac). Of
 5 those 32 subcarriers, it is likely that 24 will be used for data and 2 for pilot. Additionally,
   a repetition mode is being included, which further lowers the data rate. It should be
   emphasized that these tone counts could change if performance requirements necessitate.
            The identified target applications for IEEE 802.11 ah are indoor and outdoor
   sensors (sensor network) and cellular offloading. It is likely the main application will be
10 sensor networks, e.g. smart metering. The measure information at each node should be
   delivered to a fusion center like an access point. In any case, in most instances the payload
   is anticipated to be small (hundreds of bytes), but there are several use cases that have
   rather large payloads (a few thousand bytes). In these later cases, due to the low data rates
   of the IEEE 802.11 ah system, a packet can exceed 100 milliseconds. In comparison, for
15 the IEEE 802.1 1n/ac system a packet length of 2400 bytes transmitted at the lowest rate
   takes 3.2ms, using the highest MCS this reduces to 0.3ms and this is for only 1 stream.
   For these durations and the fact that the system was largely designed for indoor use, the
   channel is assumed stationary over the packet duration. With IEEE 802.11ah, which has
   a much lower data rate, and has use cases targeting outdoor, this assumption of channel
20 stationarity is no longer valid.
            The packet structure in previous versions of WiFi all have a preamble of fixed
   duration and a few pilot tones at fixed locations. The number of pilot tones and their
   location is different for the four (4) different bandwidths of IEEE 802.11 ac, but for each of
   the bandwidths they are fixed. The issue with potentially long packets in IEEE 802.1 lah
25 is that in outdoor channels, the channel is not stationary over the packet. Thus additional
   equalizer training or pilot phase tracking using different pilot locations has been deemed
   desirable.
            The approach to solve the problem was to arrive at a solution that would minimize
   the changes to the transmitter (Tx) and receiver (Rx) architecture from that of the previous
30 IEEE 802.11 a/g/n/ac versions. The solution outlined in this description is to use the pilot
   tones to continually update the equalizer, in addition to other receiver functionality. As
   noted above, in current versions of the standard the packets are relatively short in time.
   So the use of a preamble was justified and, assuming a stationary channel, was efficient

   WO 2013/130460                                                            PCT/US2013/027782
                                                 8
   from an overhead perspective. Also, with IEEE 802.11 ah, where relatively low data rates
   are possible (using the lowest MCS's and single streams transmissions), which make the
   packet longer in time, and where outdoor usage models are contemplated, this channel
   stationarity assumption is no longer valid.
 5          In previous versions of the standard, the preamble is typically used to estimate
   initial receiver parameters such as frequency offset estimation, timing estimation and such,
   in addition to computing the equalizer taps. The pilot tones were then typically used for
   tracking through the packet to maintain and improve frequency, time and phase
   estimation. To do that, the pilot tones are currently assigned to OFDM subcarriers in a
10 fixed manner and then from there techniques are used to estimate these parameters across
   the band as needed. An example of a possible configuration for IEEE 802.11 ah with fixed
   pilot tones at tone locations (+7,-7) is shown in FIG. IC.
            In addition, various types of communication systems may employ one or more of
   various types of signaling (e.g., orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (OFDM),
15 code division multiple access (CDMA), synchronous code division multiple access (S
   CDMA), time division multiple access (TDMA), and the like) to allow more than one user
   access to the communication system. In accordance with processing signals transmitted
   across a communication channel within such communication systems, one function that is
   often performed is that of channel estimation. From certain perspectives, channel
20 estimation (variant definitions such as channel detection, channel response
   characterization, channel frequency response characterization, and the like) is an
   instrument by which at least some characteristics of the communication channel (e.g.,
   attenuation, filtering properties, noise injection, and the like) can be modeled and
   compensated for by a receiving communication system.
25          Various embodiments of the disclosure are discussed in detail below. While
   specific implementations are discussed, it should be understood that this is done for
   illustration purposes only. A person skilled in the relevant art will recognize that other
   components and configurations may be used without parting from the spirit and scope of
   the disclosure.
30          The sensor network and the multi-band capable station illustrated in FIG. 1A and
   the related discussion are intended to provide a brief, general description of a suitable
   computing environment in which the invention may be implemented. Although only three

   WO 2013/130460                                                            PCT/US2013/027782
                                                9
   stations (STAs) are shown for simplicity, the invention is not limited to any particular
   number of STAs.
            FIG. 1A illustrates a sensor network 10 in accordance to an embodiment. A
   wireless sensor network can be defined as a network of devices, denoted as nodes, which
 5 are capable of sensing the environment and communicating the information gathered from
   the monitored field, e.g., an area or volume, through wireless links. The data is forwarded,
   possibly relays, to a controller or monitor (sink) that can use it locally or is connected to
   other networks, like the Internet, through a gateway. The nodes can be stationary or
   moving. They can be aware of their location or not. They can be homogeneous or not. A
10 preferred embodiment of the present invention provides a sensor network, illustrated in
   FIG. 1A, as a flexible open architecture that serves as a communication platform for
   multiple deployment scenarios and sensor types. Sensors may track, for example, one or
   more intrusion, unauthorized, medical, or meter events. For example, a chemical sensor
   may take an air sample and measure its properties or a temperature sensor can measure
15 temperature of buildings, cars, people, objects, and the like. A network according to a
   preferred embodiment, can be deployed to cover an area, indoor or outdoor, or deployed
   locally in rapid response emergency situations. Sensors can be placed in various fixed or
   mobile locations. Typical fixed locations include buildings, poles/towers for power or
   telephone lines or cellular towers or traffic lights. Typical mobile locations include
20 vehicle such as auto, individuals, animals such as pets, or movable fixed locations.
            The illustrated sensor network 10 comprises a device management
   facility/computer 160, a plurality of access points (AP) such as AP 136, also labeled 11 ah
   AP to show that it is l lah compliant, and a plurality of sensor nodes, devices or stations
   (STAs) such as sensor node 40 in a customer premise to perform smart metering functions,
25 sensor node 50 to monitor vehicle functions, sensor node 106, and sensor node 133. A
   wireless data collection network 170 node is shown within the network (wireless sensor
   network 10) to provide reachback links to existing public or private infrastructure types
   such as cellular, land mobile radio, and wired or wireless access points. A wireless data
   collection network 170 works as both a sensor network data concentrator as well as a
30 reachback vehicle with existing communication infrastructures like land mobile radio,
   cellular, broadband data, and the like. In essence, it provides transparent communications
   across different physical layers. The plurality of sensor nodes are positioned over a
   sensing region, and may be individually identified as sensor nodes STA 1 , STA 2 ,... STAN.

   WO 2013/130460                                                          PCT/US2013/027782
                                               10
   Any particular node N of the plurality of sensor nodes is able to communicate with one or
   more other sensor nodes, so as to form relay paths to one or more of the AP nodes such as
   AP 136. The sensor network 10 includes one or more communication devices 112
   configured to establish a wireless and/or wired communication link across wireless data
 5 collection network 170 with one or more remote application servers. The communication
   devices 112 may include a desktop, a laptop, and/or a mobile computing device.
   Examples of mobile computing devices include, but are not limited to, a Smartphone, a
   tablet computer, and ultra-mobile personal computers.
            Device management facility/computer 160 may be located within one of the AP
10 nodes such as AP 136, or on a server, a laptop computer, a personal digital assistant
   (PDA), Smartphone, or a desktop computer. Functions performed by device management
   computer may in actual practice be located on one computer, or distributed across several
   computers with different programs to perform assigned individual functions. AP nodes
   such as AP 136 are typical of that known in the art. AP nodes serve as the gateway
15 between some or all of the sensor nodes and the rest of the world, e.g., via the Internet.
   An l lah compliant AP is capable of exchanging information with indoor and outdoor
   sensors and cellular offloading. In any case, in most instances the payload is anticipated to
   be small (hundreds of bytes), but there are several use cases that have rather large
   payloads (a few thousand bytes). In these later cases, due to the low data rates of the 11 ah
20 system, a packet can exceed 100 milliseconds. With 11 ah, which has a much lower data
   rate, and has use cases targeting outdoor, this assumption of channel stationarity is no
   longer valid and thus additional equalizer training or pilot phase tracking using different
   pilot locations has been deemed necessary in order to estimate the signal across the entire
   data carrying portion of the band.
25          FIG. 1B is an exemplary communication device 112 suitable for implementing
   different embodiments of the disclosure. The communication device 112 includes a
   processor 186 that is coupled to one or more memory devices, such as a read only memory
   (ROM) 190, a random access memory (RAM) 188, a transceiver 182 that is coupled to a
   first antenna 180 and to a second antenna 184, and an input/output (I/O) device 192. The
30 processor 186 may be implemented as one or more processor chips.
            Processor 186 may include, for example, a Central Processing Unit (CPU), a
   Digital Signal Processor (DSP), a microprocessor, a controller, a chip, a microchip, an
   Integrated Circuit (IC), or any other suitable multi-purpose or specific processor or

   WO 2013/130460                                                          PCT/US2013/027782
                                                 11
   controller. Processor 186 may, for example, process data received by communication
   device 112, and/or process data intended for transmission.
           The ROM 190 is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during
   program execution. ROM 190 is a non-volatile memory device. The RAM 188 is used to
 5 store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. The ROM 190 may include flash
   memories or electrically erasable programmable memory to support updating the stored
   instructions remotely, for example through an over-the-air interface via the transceivers
    182 and/or 185 and the antennas 180 and/or 184.
           The transceivers 182, 185 and the antennas 180, 184 support radio
10 communications. Transceivers 180 and 184 are able to perform separate or integrated
   functions of receiving and/or transmitting/receiving wireless communication signals,
   tones, blocks, frames, transmission streams, packets, messages and/or data.
           The I/O device 192 may be a keypad and a visual display to permit entering
   numbers and selecting functions. Alternatively, the I/O device 192 maybe a keyboard and
15 a touch pad, such as a keyboard and a touch pad of a laptop computer. The processor 186
   executes instructions, codes, computer-executable instructions, computer programs, and/or
   scripts which it accesses from ROM 190 or RAM 188.
           FIG. IC is a diagram with fixed pilots in accordance with one embodiment. More
   particularly, FIG. IC illustrates an example of a possible configuration for IEEE 802.11 ah
20 with fixed pilot tones 194 at tone locations (+7,-7).
           FIG. 2 is a diagram of a packet generated as a function of time with pilot tones
   transmitted by a transmitter in accordance with an embodiment. FIG. 2 shows a signal
   that comprises an OFDM symbol set 202. Each OFDM symbol set includes multiple data
   symbols modulated by distinct subcarriers 204 (e.g., subcarrier frequencies). Each OFDM
25 symbol set includes pilot tones 210, data symbols 205, guard subcarriers 211 and 213, DC
   subcarriers (0 Hz) 212 although other configurations are possible. The DC and guard
   subcarriers are sometimes collectively called the null subcarriers/tones (null tones). Null
   tones are used in OFDM systems to protect against DC offset (DC subcarrier) and to
   protect against adjacent channel interference (guard subcarriers). Additionally, guard
30 subcarriers are left blank to allow for fitting the transmitted waveform into a transmit
   spectral mask with less costly implementation.
           The pilot tones according to an embodiment may be assigned to one or more
   usable carriers (i.e. carriers not including guard or DC tones) such that, as shown by way

   WO 2013/130460                                                            PCT/US2013/027782
                                                 12
   of FIG. 2, they sweep through the usable carriers as a function of time, such as through all
   usable subcarriers. The pilot tones 210 may be modulated by the same sub-subcarrier
   frequency in each of the OFDM symbol sets but disposed at different sub-subcarrier
   positions in different symbol sets. In a sequential assignment of pilot tones, difference in
 5 position (P), spacing 215, between the pilot tones in the same symbol sets may be such
   that every n (n >= 1) symbol position in a symbol set is occupied by a pilot tone. As
   shown the spacing between the pilot tones is fourteen (14) subcarriers and this fixed
   position may be maintained for each symbol set. FIG. 3 illustrates an alternative strategy
   where the spacing varies as a result of random assignment employed on the positioning of
10 the pilot tones.
           The pilot tones are disposed at different sub-subcarrier positions in different
   symbol sets through time by way of pilot tone shifting. Pilot tone shifting is a process
   where the pilot tones may be sequentially or randomly assigned to different sub-subcarrier
   as a function of time. As previously mentioned, only a subset of subcarriers may be used
15 for pilot or usable carriers. For example, the pilot tones may be used only on data
   subcarriers (e.g., sweep through with the pilot tone on a symbol by symbol basis), avoid
   nulled subcarriers (e.g., DC subcarriers and guard subcarriers), and potentially even avoid
   data tones that are adjacent to guard or DC subcarriers. The pilot tones and their
   positioning can be based on channel conditions such as coding scheme, packet length, and
20 the like. As shown on time axis 290, PT 1 (time=1 or a first time period of the packet being
   generated) the position of the pilot tones are -13 and 1; while at PT 2 (time=2) the positions
   are shifted by one and the pilot tones are assigned to -12 and 2. As shown the pilot tones
   205 are shifted 220 one position in the time domain. The pilot tones could be shifted such
   that there is a shift every symbol set as shown, or could stay fixed for several symbol sets
25 and then be shifted. The shifting of the pilot tones 210 can be based on the modulation
   and coding scheme (MCS) used for transmission or on the packet length of the
   transmission (i.e., channel conditions). Further, the amount of time the one or more pilot
   tones 210 occupy at a particular subcarrier could be based on a modulation and coding
   scheme (MCS), the MCS selected based on a data rate and a level of robustness required
30 by traffic type. After a set of pilot tones are assigned, the process 292 of assigning pilot
   tones is repeated for each time period of a plurality of time periods.
           FIG. 3 illustrates a method 300 for random pilot shifting as function of time in an
   OFDM-based communication system in accordance to an embodiment. This diagram

   WO 2013/130460                                                            PCT/US2013/027782
                                                 13
   shows multiple frames, at different times, of an OFDM signal with each frame including
   pilot tones 210, data tones 410 and 420, and null tones which are generally found at (-16,
    15, 0, 14, and 15) for the 1 MHz bandwidth case example. While in a wireless network
   sensor a uniform modulation is used for all the data tones, an OFDM signal may comprise
 5 data tones 402 of different modulation types. Example of different modulation types are
   Quadrature phase-shift keying (QPSK) and Binary phase-shift keying (BPSK) which is of
   a relatively lower modulation order than QPSK. In FIG. 3, tone set (tones -12 and -11)
   may use a QPSK modulation type and there may be an even greater confidence associated
   with a symbol extracted from that data tone to qualify it as a pseudo-pilot tone. Tone set
10 (tones 10 and 11) could be data tones whose corresponding symbols have relatively
   lower modulation order types (such as below, e.g., 16 QAM, BPSK, and the like) may
   qualify more frequently for pilot tone insertion than data tones whose corresponding
   symbols have relatively higher modulation order types like QPSK.
            Additionally, the amount of time the pilot tones occupy a particular subcarrier
15 could be dependent on modulation and coding scheme (MCS). For example in .1 1ah,
   where a new BPSK rate 12 mode is defined with a repetition coding of 2x, the fixed
   duration could be longer than that of the MCSO, BPSK rate 12 mode which has no
   repetition.
            Finally, the approach allows the system to use fixed pilot tones for packets which
20 are short in duration as in previous versions of the standard so as to minimize the
   processing. Thus, it allows the option of using the technique in all packet transmissions,
   or to only be used for configurations such as low MCS's with 1-stream and large payloads.
   Using MCS and packet length to determine the setting for the pilot rotation allows a
   simple design since these parameters are signaled in the preamble in the signal field(s).
25          FIG. 4 illustrates part of a transceiver 182 with equalizer for processing pilot tones
   and data tones in accordance to an embodiment. Receiver 182 comprises an antenna 180,
   an input module 412, an adaptive equalizer 220 running an equalizer application 240 or
   instructions, and channel estimation module 230.
            Input module 412 includes an interface to provided signals to adaptive equalizer
30 440 and other circuits from antenna 180. Input module may comprise filters, delay
   elements, and taps with their corresponding coefficients to provide an output which
   depends on the instantaneous state of the radio channel.

   WO 2013/130460                                                           PCT/US2013/027782
                                                14
            The tap coefficients are weight values which may be adjusted based on the pilot
   tones to achieve a specific level of performance, and preferably to optimize signal quality
   at the receiver. In one embodiment, the receiving system is able to track channel changes
   over time (e.g., using the pilot tones to update the equalizer taps) because of the rotation of
 5 the pilot tones through each of the OFDM subcarriers over the packet through time. As
   noted above, the pilot tones are separated by some number of data subcarriers so that
   estimation of slope and intercept for subcarrier is simplified. As the pilot tones are swept
   across the band, the taps for the equalizer for the subcarriers for which the pilot tones
   currently populate may be updated as well.
10          The pilot tones 210 are received at antenna 180 and converted to a baseband
   representation by input module 412. The received pilot tones are then input into the
   channel estimator 436 which uses the received sequences to determine initial channel
   estimates for the wireless channel (using, for example, a least squares approach). The
   channel estimator 436 may have a priori knowledge of the transmitted pilot tones which it
15 compares to the received signals to determine the initial channel estimates. The initial
   channel estimates may then be delivered to the channel tracking unit 438. The data signals
   are received by the antenna 180 and converted to a baseband representation within the
   transceiver 182 input module 412. The data signals are then delivered to the input of the
   equalizer 440 which filters the signals in a manner dictated by the channel taps currently
20 being applied to the equalizer 440. The equalizer 440 may include any type of equalizer
   structure (including, for example, a transversal filter, a maximum likelihood sequence
   estimator (MLSE), and others). When properly configured, the equalizer 440 may reduce
   or eliminate undesirable channel effects within the received signals (e.g., inter-symbol
   interference).
25          The received data signals with pilot tones 210 are also delivered to the input of the
   channel tracking unit 438 which uses the received signals to track the channel taps applied
   to the equalizer 440. During system operation, these taps are regularly updated by the
   channel tracking unit 438 based on the magnitude and phase of the pilot tones. In addition
   to the receive data, the channel tracking unit 438 also receives data from an output of the
30 equalizer 440 as feedback for use in the channel tracking process. The channel tracking
   unit 438 uses the initial channel estimates determined by the channel estimator 436 to
   determine the channel taps covariance matrix (C). In one embodiment, for example,
   channel tracking unit 438 then determines the value of the constant b (related to the

   WO 2013/130460                                                             PCT/US2013/027782
                                                 15
   channel changing rate) and calculates the taps changing covariance matrix (b*C). The
   square root of the taps changing covariance matrix is then determined and used within a
   modified least mean square (LMS) algorithm to determine the updated channel taps, which
   are then applied to the equalizer 440. The output of the equalizer 440 is de-interleaved in
 5 the de-interleaver 442. Channel and source coding is then removed from the signal in the
   channel decoder 444 and the source decoder 446, respectively. The resulting information
   is then delivered to the information sink 448 which may include a user device, a memory,
   or other data destination as shown by output 250.
            FIG. 5 is a flowchart of a method for tone allocation in a transmitter in accordance
10 to an embodiment. Method 500 begins with action 510 and is repeated for every packet.
   In action 510, a device such as communication device 112 wirelessly transmits a packet
   using a plurality of subcarriers that may include pilot, data, and null tones. Control is then
   passed to action 520 where the process assigns one or more pilot tones to the plurality of
   subcarriers. The assignment of the one or more pilot tones in action 520 is done in
15 conjunction with action 530 that shifts the one or more pilot tones a number of subcarriers
   from a previous position on the packet. Control is then returned to action 520 where the
   pilot tones are assigned to particular subcarriers of the OFDM signal. Control is then
   passed to action 510 where wireless communication is conducted by the communication
   device. The shifting of the pilot tones as noted earlier could be either fixed, for example a
20 shift every symbol, variably shifted where the pilot tones stay fixed for several symbols
   and then varied, or it could be randomly shifted in accordance to a uniform distribution.
            FIG. 6 illustrates an exemplary pilot dwell time table 600 in accordance with one
   embodiment. The pilot dwell time table 600 may store, among other types of information,
   a set of MCS available to an OFDM system, each MCS having an associated pilot dwell
25 time (N). A pilot dwell time (N) may indicate a number of symbols to communicate a
   pilot tone 210 on a subcarrier 204 in a multicarrier system before shifting the pilot tone
   210 to another subcarrier 204 in the multicarrier system. The pilot dwell time table 600
   may be stored as any type of data structure in a storage medium, such as RAM 188, ROM
    190, and other storage mediums suitable for use with an OFDM system and OFDM
30 devices. Although referred to as a pilot dwell time table 600, it may be appreciated that
   the information described for the pilot dwell time table 600 may be stored in any data
   structure, such as an array, linked list, database, relational database, lookup table (LUT),
   and so forth. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

   WO 2013/130460                                                            PCT/US2013/027782
                                                16
           It may be appreciated that although some embodiments describe the use of pilot
   dwell time (N) and the pilot dwell time table 600 in the context of managing shifting of
   pilot tones for one or more pilot tone shifting techniques, the pilot dwell time (N) and the
   pilot dwell time table 600 may be used for other applications, such as for managing pilot
 5 tone dwell times for space-time block code (STBC) techniques, managing pilot tone dwell
   times for transmit beamforming (TxBF) techniques, or any other communications
   techniques that may use fixed or variable pilot tone dwell times. For example, there are
   other transmit modes that result in different operating conditions (e.g., SNR), and thus
   would use different N values due to the varying operating conditions. With TxBF, for
10 example, the values given with the pilot dwell time table 600 as shown in FIG. 6 could be
   used, with N incremented or decremented by one or more integers. With STBC, for
   example, different N values could be used for different STBC modes. Additionally, the
   use of different encoders could result with different N values. For instance, convolutional
   encoders may use the values given with the pilot dwell time table 600 as shown in FIG. 6,
15 while LDPC encoders may use the values given with the pilot dwell time table 600 as
   shown in FIG. 6 and decremented by one or more. The embodiments are not limited to
   these examples.
           As previously described with reference to FIGS. 1-5, pilot tones 210 may be
   disposed at different sub-subcarrier positions in different OFDM symbol sets 202 through
20 time by way of pilot tone shifting. Pilot tone shifting is a process where the pilot tones
   210 may be sequentially or randomly assigned to different subcarrier 204 as a function of
   time. The pilot tones could be shifted such that there is a shift every symbol set as shown
   in FIG. 2, or could stay fixed for several symbol sets and then be shifted. In the latter
   case, the amount of time pilot tones 210 occupy a particular subcarrier 204 may be
25 indicated by a pilot dwell time (N) stored in the pilot dwell time table 600.
           With pilot tone shifting (or pilot tone rotation), a pilot tone 210 is shifted to a new
   location every N symbols, where N is a system parameter. Thus, the pilot tone 210
   remains constant for N symbols, then shifts to the next location. A receiver may then use
   the N pilot symbols to make a channel estimate using an appropriate algorithm. The
30 system could be designed with a single fixed value of N, but that does not allow for
   optimization.
           In various embodiments, the sensor network 10 may use several values for N,
   where N is any positive integer. In one embodiment, for example, values for N may range

   WO 2013/130460                                                            PCT/US2013/027782
                                                 17
   from 1 to 8 OFDM symbols. Using different values for N may allow a pilot tone 210 to be
   communicated on a particular subcarrier 204 for varying amounts of time. A larger value
   for N may indicate a greater amount of time a pilot tone 210 is communicated on a
   subcarrier 204, which provides a longer integration time and potentially higher signal-to
 5 noise ratio (SNR) for an estimate. Conversely, a smaller value for Nmay indicate a lesser
   amount of time a pilot tone 210 is communicated on a subcarrier 204, which provides a
   shorter integration time and potentially lower SNR for an estimate. Therefore, N may be
   customized for a particular packet, media, channel, device, or system to improve overall
   performance.
10          One problem associated with using a variable N, however, is that a receiver needs
   to be informed about the value of N (e.g., the dwell time before a pilot rotation or shift)
   that will be used in a packet. One approach is to signal this information to the physical
   (PHY) layer using a signal (SIG) field of a preamble. A major drawback of this approach
   is that signaling of 1 to 8 values would require 3 bits in the SIG field. Unfortunately for a
15  1 MHz system, there are very few data tones and with repetition, adding an extra symbol
   equates to adding 2 symbols with repetition. Even if a 1 MHz system would have
   additional bits to signal a value for N, this would increase signaling traffic in a network
   thereby consuming more bandwidth and other network resources.
            Various embodiments provide a technique for a multicarrier system to utilize a
20 variable pilot dwell time that is automatically known to both a transmitter and receiver
   through other system parameters, while reducing or eliminating the need to signal the
   variable pilot dwell time to either the transmitter or the receiver. In one embodiment, for
   example, this may be accomplished by associating fixed pilot dwell times (N) with a MCS
   used for a packet, as shown by the pilot dwell time table 600 of FIG. 6. The design trade
25 off for pilot tone shifting systems (and other systems such as STBC, TxBF or channel
   coding types) is that for stationary channels, a larger N indicates a longer dwell time and
   subsequent better performance. Since the channel is stationary, the longer integration
   gives a better SNR for an estimate, as demonstrated in FIGS. 9, 10, which shows that
   performance is better than a system with no pilot rotation (e.g., N> 4). This is because
30 integration time for each pilot tone 210 is longer than an original preamble which was
   used for the initial channel estimate for all pilot tones 210. With the addition of Doppler,
   longer integration times can start to degrade performance relative to shorter integration
   times. As a note, even long integration times are better than not using pilot tone rotation

   WO 2013/130460                                                          PCT/US2013/027782
                                                18
   as in 802.1 1n/ac systems. Nonetheless, it is useful to have N configured in order to
   optimize the system, but without adding additional overhead with signaling.
            Referring again to FIG. 6, the pilot dwell time table 600 may store, among other
   types of information, a set of MCS available to an OFDM system, each MCS having an
 5 associated pilot dwell time (N). In one embodiment, selecting a pilot dwell time (N) to
   associate with a given MCS may be empirically derived based on historical information
   for the sensor network 10, and encoded in the pilot dwell time table 600. Values for the
   pilot dwell time table 600 stored in memory of various devices (e.g., sensor nodes 40, 50,
    106, and/or 133) may be updated on a periodic, aperiodic, continuous, or on-demand basis.
10          In some cases, it may be possible so select a value of Nto associate with a given
   MCS based on instantaneous channel information, and update the values of the pilot dwell
   time table 600 stored in memory of various devices (e.g., sensor nodes 40, 50, 106, and/or
    133) accordingly. However, this approach has some design trade-offs. Selecting a value
   for N based on instantaneous channel information is very difficult in an IEEE 802.1 lah
15 system which has a main use case of low power sensors. For example, these devices
   exchange information infrequently and additionally are typically very low power devices,
   so a design constraint is to minimize their time "awake." Further, frequent updates would
   add additional overhead to all transmissions, even those where pilot rotation is not
   enabled, thereby impacting the system throughput and device power consumption.
20          The pilot dwell time table 600 may include, among other types of information, a
   MCS field 602, a modulation field 604, a code rate field 606, and a pilot dwell time (N)
   field 608. The MCS field 602 may store a code index for a particular type of MCS, such
   as MCSO to MCS9, for example. The modulation field 604 may store a modulation type
   associated with each code index, such as binary phase-shift keying (BPSK), quadrature
25 phase-shift keying (QPSK), 16 quadrature amplitude modulation (QAM) (16-QAM), 64
   QAM, 256-QAM, and so forth. The code rate field 606 may store a code rate of a
   convolutional code associated with each code index, such as 1/2, 2/3, 3/4, 5/6 and so forth.
   The pilot dwell time (N) field 608 may store an integer value for N, such as 1-8 symbols.
   In this configuration, a code index from the MCS field 602 may indicate different types of
30 associated information. For instance, a code index 610 of MCS4 may be associated with a
   modulation type of 16-QAM, a 3/4 code rate, and N= 2. It may be appreciated that the
   fields and values shown in the pilot dwell time table 600 are merely examples, and other
   fields and values may be implemented for a given pilot dwell time table 600. For instance,

   WO 2013/130460                                                           PCT/US2013/027782
                                                19
   a field (not shown) may be added to the pilot dwell time table 600 to indicate a pilot tone
   shifting pattern, such as sequential or random, for instance.
            FIG. 7 is a diagram of a packet generated as a function of time with pilot tones
   transmitted by a transmitter in a sequential manner. As previously described with
 5 reference to FIG. 2, pilot tones 210 may be disposed at different sub-subcarrier positions
   in different symbol sets through time by way of pilot tone shifting. In one embodiment,
   the pilot tones 210 could be shifted to different subcarriers as indicated by a pilot dwell
   time (N) stored in the pilot dwell time table 600. The pilot dwell time table 600 may be
   stored in both a transmitting device and a receiving device. In this manner, once the
10 transmitting device and the receiving device select or agree on a MCS for a channel or
   packet, such as through a rate adaptation process to converge on an optimal MCS from a
   throughput perspective, the transmitting device and the receiving device may retrieve a
   pilot dwell time (N) associated with the selected MCS from local pilot dwell time tables
   600 without any additional signaling exchanged between the devices.
15          In one embodiment, for example, a processor circuit (e.g., processor 186) for a
   transmitting device and/or a receiving device may be configured to identify a MCS to
   communicate a packet using multiple subcarriers 204 of an OFDM system, such as sensor
   network 10. The processor circuit may retrieve a pilot dwell time (N) from the pilot dwell
   time field 608 associated with the identified MCS from the pilot dwell time table 600
20 stored in memory. The pilot dwell time (N) may indicate when to shift a pilot tone 210
   between subcarriers 204 during communication of the packet. In one embodiment, for
   example, the pilot dwell time (N) may indicate a shift of a pilot tone 210 from a first
   subcarrier 2041 to a second subcarrier 2042 of the multiple subcarriers 204 every 1 to 8
   OFDM symbols. However, the embodiments are not limited to these values.
25          Pilot tone shifting may occur in either a sequential or random manner. This may
   be a configurable parameter stored by the transmitting device and receiving device, such
   as through another field added to the pilot dwell time table 600. Alternatively, in addition
   to the pilot dwell time (N) indicating a shift of a pilot tone 210 from a first subcarrier 2041
   to a second subcarrier 2042, the pilot dwell time (N) may further indicate whether the shift
30 between subcarriers 204 should occur in a sequential or random manner. For instance,
   certain values for Nmay indicate sequential shifts (e.g., when N= I to 4), while other
   values for N may indicate random shifts (e.g., when N= 5 to 8). Embodiments are not
   limited in this context.

   WO 2013/130460                                                            PCT/US2013/027782
                                                  20
            FIG. 7 illustrates a case of pilot shifting when N= 2 and sequential shifts. As
   shown on time axis 290, at PT 1 (time=1 or a first time period of the packet) the position of
   the pilot tones 210 of the OFDM symbol set 202 are -13 and 1. At PT 2 (time=2), the
   position of the pilot tones 210 remain at -13 and 1 as indicated by N= 2. At PT 3 (time=3),
 5 the positions are shifted by one and the pilot tones 210 are assigned to -12 and 2. As
   shown the pilot tones 210 are shifted 220 one position in the time domain. At PT 4
   (time=4), the position of the pilot tones 210 remain at -12 and 2, again as indicated by N
   2. After a set of pilot tones 210 are assigned, the process 292 of assigning pilot tones is
   repeated for each time period of a plurality of time periods in a sequential manner.
10          FIG. 8 is a diagram of a packet generated as a function of time with pilot tones
   transmitted by a transmitter in a random manner. More particularly, FIG. 8 illustrates a
   case of pilot shifting when N= 2 and random shifts. As shown on time axis 290, at PT 1
   (time=1) the position of the pilot tones 210 are -13 and 1. At PT 2 (time=2), the position of
   the pilot tones 210 remain at -13 and 1 as indicated by N= 2. At PT 3 (time=3), the
15 positions are shifted by a random number of positions and the pilot tones 210 are assigned
   to -10 and 4. As shown the pilot tones 210 are shifted 220 three positions in the time
   domain. At PT 4 (time=4), the position of the pilot tones 210 remain at -10 and 4, again as
   indicated by N = 2. At PT 5 (time=5), the positions are again shifted by a random number
   of positions and the pilot tones 210 are assigned to -5 and 9. As shown the pilot tones 210
20 are shifted 220 five positions in the time domain. At PT 6 (time=6), the position of the
   pilot tones 210 remain at -5 and 9, again as indicated by N= 2. After a set of pilot tones
   210 are assigned, the process 292 of assigning pilot tones is repeated for each time period
   of a plurality of time periods in a random manner.
            It may be appreciated that in FIGS. 7, 8, the spacing between pilot tones 210 for a
25 given OFDM symbol set 202 remain a fixed number of positions apart, which in this case
   is fourteen (14) subcarriers, regardless of whether the pilot tone shifts are sequential or
   random. Alternatively, in some cases, the spacing between pilot tones 210 may vary as
   well. The embodiments are not limited in this context.
            FIG. 9 is a diagram illustrating system performance with a MCSO from the pilot
30 dwell time table 600 shown in FIG. 6. A study was done to determine the appropriate
   selection of the pilot rotation dwell time (N), and the MCS used. For brevity only a few
   cases are shown here to provide insight to the final selection of N in the pilot dwell time
   table 600. FIG. 9 illustrates system performance with MCSO (BPSK rate 12). As can be

   WO 2013/130460                                                             PCT/US2013/027782
                                                 21
   seen in FIG. 9, to attain sufficient integration a total of 4 symbols (e.g., N= 4) are needed
   to match the performance with no pilot rotation. This is a positive result since the
   preamble used for initial channel estimation was also 4 symbols long and used BPSK
   signaling.
 5         FIG. 10 is a diagram illustrating system performance with a MCS3 from the pilot
   dwell time table 600 shown in FIG. 6. FIG. 10 illustrates system performance with MCS3
   (16-QAM rate     '2). As can be seen in FIG. 10, MCS3 utilizes 16-QAM and therefore
   requires a higher SNR to meet a packet error rate (PER) target. As such MCS3 only
   requires an integration time of N = 2 to match the performance with no pilot rotation (e.g.,
10 such as an 802.11n/ac system). Thus, integration time beyond this is not justified. This
   allows better Doppler tracking without comprising the system in stationary channels.
   Based on the study, the pilot dwell time table 600 was created and is proposed as inclusion
   in the 802.1 lah standard. The approach is to signal the receiver that pilot rotation is used,
   and once it is determined that pilot rotation is to be used in the transmitter, it will use the N
15 value based on the MCS selection as outlined in the pilot dwell time table 600. It is
   worthy to note that pilot rotation is not necessarily used in each packet, and is typically
   based on the packet time on air.
           FIG. 11 is a flowchart of a method 1100 for tone allocation in a transmitter in
   accordance with an embodiment. For instance, the method 1100 may be utilized in
20 various transmitting devices (e.g., sensor nodes 40, 50, 106, and/or 133) via the transceiver
    182.
           As shown in FIG. 11, method 1100 may identify a MCS for a packet of an OFDM
   system at block 1102. For instance, a sensor node (e.g., sensor nodes 40, 50, 106, and/or
    133) may identify a MCS for a packet of an OFDM system through a rate adaptation
25 process.
           The method 1100 may retrieve a pilot dwell time associated with the MCS from a
   storage medium, the pilot dwell time to represent a length of time a pilot tone is
   communicated on a subcarrier of the OFDM system before the pilot tone is shifted to a
   different subcarrier of the OFDM system, at block 1104. For instance, the processor 186
30 may retrieve a pilot dwell time (N) associated with the MCS from the pilot dwell time
   table 600 stored in RAM 188 or ROM 190. The pilot dwell time (N) may indicate a length
   of time a pilot tone 210 is communicated on a subcarrier 204 of the sensor network 10
   before the pilot tone 210 is shifted to a different subcarrier 204 of the sensor network 10.

   WO 2013/130460                                                           PCT/US2013/027782
                                                22
   In one embodiment, the pilot dwell time (N) may comprise a number of OFDM symbols to
   communicate the pilot tone 210 on each subcarrier 204, such as 1 to 8 OFDM symbols, for
   example.
            The method 1100 may transmit the packet using the multiple subcarriers at block
 5  1106. For example, the transceiver 182 may transmit an OFDM symbol set 202 using the
   multiple subcarriers 204.
            The method 1100 may assign a pilot tone to a first subcarrier of the multiple
   subcarriers during transmission of the packet at block 1108. For example, the processor
    186 may assign a pilot tone 210 to a first subcarrier 2041 of the multiple subcarriers during
10 transmission of the OFDM symbol set 202 at a first time instance.
            The method 110 may shift the pilot tone from the first subcarrier to a second
   subcarrier of the multiple subcarriers based on the pilot dwell time during transmission of
   the packet at block 1110. For example, the processor 186 may cause the transceiver 182
   to shift the pilot tone 210 from the first subcarrier 2041 to a second subcarrier 2042 of the
15 multiple subcarriers 204 based on the pilot dwell time (N) during transmission of the
   OFDM symbol set 202 at a second time instance, with an amount of time between the first
   and second time instances determined by N. In one embodiment, the pilot tone shift may
   occur in a sequential manner. In one embodiment, the pilot tone shift may occur in a
   random manner.
20          FIG. 12 is a flowchart of a method 1200 for tone allocation in a receiver in
   accordance with an embodiment. For instance, the method 1200 may be utilized in
   various receiving devices (e.g., sensor nodes 40, 50, 106, and/or 133) via the transceiver
    182.
            As shown in FIG. 12, method 1200 may identify a MCS for a packet of an OFDM
25 system at block 1202. For instance, a sensor node (e.g., sensor nodes 40, 50, 106, and/or
    133) may identify a MCS for a packet of an OFDM system through a rate adaptation
   process.
            The method 1100 may retrieve a pilot dwell time associated with the MCS from a
   storage medium, the pilot dwell time to represent a length of time a pilot tone is
30 communicated on a subcarrier of the OFDM system before the pilot tone is shifted to a
   different subcarrier of the OFDM system, at block 1204. For instance, the processor 186
   may retrieve a pilot dwell time (N) associated with the MCS from the pilot dwell time
   table 600 stored in RAM 188 or ROM 190. The pilot dwell time (N) may indicate a length

   WO 2013/130460                                                            PCT/US2013/027782
                                                23
   of time a pilot tone 210 is communicated on a subcarrier 204 of the sensor network 10
   before the pilot tone 210 is shifted to a different subcarrier 204 of the sensor network 10.
   In one embodiment, the pilot dwell time (N) may comprise a number of OFDM symbols to
   communicate the pilot tone 210 on each subcarrier 204, such as 1 to 8 OFDM symbols, for
 5 example.
            The method 1200 may receive the packet using the multiple subcarriers at block
    1206. For instance, the transceiver 182 may receive an OFDM symbol set 202 using the
   multiple subcarriers 204.
            The method 1200 may receive pilot tones on different subcarriers of the multiple
10 subcarriers during receipt of the packet based on the pilot dwell time at block 1208. For
   example, the transceiver 182 may receive pilot tones 210 on different subcarriers 2041,
   2042 of the multiple subcarriers 204 during receipt of the OFDM symbol set 202 at
   different time instances based on the pilot dwell time (N). Assume a transmitting device
   utilizes a known MCS and the processor 186 assigns a pilot tone 210 to a first subcarrier
15 2 041  of the multiple subcarriers 204 during transmission of the OFDM symbol set 202 at a
   first time instance for a time period defined by N. For instance, when N = 2, the
   transceiver 182 will transmit the pilot tone 210 on the first subcarrier 2041 for a period of 2
   symbols. Meanwhile, the processor 186 of the receiving device, having knowledge of the
   MCS used by the transmitting device, will retrieve a value for N associated with the MCS
20 from the pilot dwell time table 600, and direct the transceiver 182 to monitor the first
   subcarrier 2041 for the pilot tone 210 for a period of time defined by N. For instance,
   when N= 2, the transceiver 182 will monitor the first subcarrier 2041 to receive the pilot
   tone 210 for a period of 2 symbols. After 2 symbols, the transmitting device may shift the
   pilot tone 210 from the first subcarrier 2041 to a second subcarrier 2042 of the multiple
25 subcarriers 204. The processor 186 of the receiving device, having knowledge of N
   derived through the known MCS used by the transmitting device, will monitor the second
   subcarrier 2042 to receive the pilot tone 210 for a period of time defined by N, which in
   this example is 2 symbols. This pilot tone shifting process will continue until the packet is
   completely transmitted and received by transceiver 182.
30          Thus, embodiments using different pilot dwell times (N) based on MCS provides
   some level of optimization without adding undo overhead to the entire system. It adds this
   optimization without adding two (2) additional SIG field symbols and without needing the

   WO 2013/130460                                                        PCT/US2013/027782
                                              24
   devices to exchange information in multiple transmissions which would reduce battery life
   of the devices.
           Embodiments within the scope of the present disclosure may also include
   computer-readable media for carrying or having computer-executable instructions or data
 5 structures stored thereon. Such computer-readable media can be any available media that
   can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. By way of example,
   and not limitation, such computer-readable media can comprise RAM, ROM, EEPROM,
   CD-ROM or other optical disk storage, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage
   devices, or any other medium which can be used to carry or store desired program code
10 means in the form of computer-executable instructions or data structures. When
   information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications
   connection (either hardwired, wireless, or combination thereof) to a computer, the
   computer properly views the connection as a computer-readable medium. Thus, any such
   connection is properly termed a computer-readable medium. Combinations of the above
15 should also be included within the scope of the computer-readable media.
           Computer-executable instructions include, for example, instructions and data
   which cause a general purpose computer, special purpose computer, or special purpose
   processing device to perform a certain function or group of functions. Computer
   executable instructions also include program modules that are executed by computers in
20 stand-alone or network environments. Generally, program modules include routines,
   programs, objects, components, and data structures, etc. that performs particular tasks or
   implement particular abstract data types. Computer-executable instructions, associated
   data structures, and program modules represent examples of the program code means for
   executing steps of the methods disclosed herein. The particular sequence of such
25 executable instructions or associated data structures represents examples of corresponding
   acts for implementing the functions described in such steps.
           Various processes to support the establishment of channel estimation and tracking.
   Using the disclosed approach, efficient and productive use of computing resources in a
   communication device to track channel changes over time by assigning one or more pilot
30 tones to a packet. Although the above description may contain specific details, they
   should not be construed as limiting the claims in any way. Other configurations of the
   described embodiments of the disclosure are part of the scope of this disclosure. For
   example, the principles of the disclosure may be applied to each individual user where

  WO 2013/130460                                                          PCT/US2013/027782
                                             25
  each user may individually deploy such a system. This enables each user to utilize the
  benefits of the disclosure even if any one of the large number of possible applications do
  not need the functionality described herein. In other words, there may be multiple
  instances of the components each processing the content in various possible ways. It does
5 not necessarily need to be one system used by all end users. Accordingly, the appended
  claims and their legal equivalents should only define the disclosure, rather than any
  specific examples given.

                                                     26
                                                   Claims
 1. An apparatus, comprising:
     a transceiver; and
     logic, at least a portion of which is in hardware, the logic to receive a data packet comprising a
plurality of pilot tones over a plurality of subcarriers of a wireless communication channel during a
plurality of orthogonal frequency-division multiplexing (OFDM) symbol durations, the wireless
communication channel to comprise a bandwidth of t MHz, 2 MHz, 4 MHz, 8 MHz, or 16 MHz, the
logic to receive each of the plurality ofpilot tones via respective subcarrier positions that are to vary
over a course of the plurality of OFDM symbol durations.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, the respective subcarrier positions to vary sequentially over the course
of the plurality of OFDM symbol durations.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, the variation of the respective subcarrier positions over the course of
the plurality of OFDM symbol durations not limited to sequential variation.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, the subcarrier positions of the plurality of pilot tones during each
OFDM symbol duration to be determined based on a symbol count value for that OFDM symbol
duration.
5. The apparatus of claim 4, a respective subcarrier position for each of the plurality ofpilot tones to
shift each time the symbol count value is incremented.
6. The apparatus of claim 4, a respective subcarrier position for each of the plurality ofpilot tones to
shift every second time the symbol count value is incremented.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, the logic to compensate for Doppler effects of a wireless channel based
on the plurality of pilot tones.
8. The apparatus of claim 1, the data packet to comprise two pilot tones.
3572391vl

                                                    27
9. The apparatus of claim 8, a respective subcarrier position for each of the two pilot tones to shift
among a respective set of thirteen subcarriers.
 10. The apparatus of claim 1, the data packet to comprise four, six, eight, or sixteen pilot tones.
 11. The apparatus of claim 1, comprising a memory unit.
 12. The apparatus of claim 11, comprising at least one antenna.
 13. At least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium comprising a set of instructions
that, in response to being executed on a computing device, cause the computing device to receive a
data packet comprising a plurality of pilot tones over a plurality of subcarriers of a wireless
communication channel during a plurality of orthogonal frequency-division multiplexing (OFDM)
symbol durations, the wireless communication channel to comprise a bandwidth of t MHz, 2 MHz,
4 MHz, 8 MHz, or 16 MHz, each of the plurality of pilot tones to be received via respective
subcarrier positions that are to vary over a course of the plurality of OFDM symbol durations.
 14. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, the respective
subcarrier positions to vary sequentially over the course of the plurality of OFDM symbol durations.
 15. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, the respective
subcarrier positions to vary non-sequentially over the course of the plurality of OFDM symbol
durations.
 16. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, the subcarrier
positions of the plurality of pilot tones during each OFDM symbol duration to be determined based
on a symbol count value for that OFDM symbol duration.
 17. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, a respective
subcarrier position for each of the plurality of pilot tones to shift each time the symbol count value is
incremented.
3572391vl

                                                     28
 18. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, each of the
plurality of pilot tones to be received via respective subcarrier positions that are to shift every second
time the symbol count value is incremented.
 19. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, comprising
instructions that, in response to being executed on the computing device, cause the computing device
to compensate for Doppler effects of a wireless channel based on the plurality of pilot tones.
20. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, the data packet
to comprise two pilot tones.
21. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 20, a respective
subcarrier position for each of the two pilot tones to shift among a respective set of thirteen
subcarriers.
22. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, the data packet
to comprise four, six, eight, or sixteen pilot tones.
23. An access point (AP), comprising:
     a transceiver;
     at least one antenna; and
     logic, at least a portion of which is in hardware, the logic to transmit a data packet comprising a
plurality of pilot tones over a plurality of subcarriers of a wireless communication channel during a
plurality of orthogonal frequency-division multiplexing (OFDM) symbol durations, the wireless
communication channel to comprise a bandwidth of t MHz, 2 MHz, 4 MHz, 8 MHz, or 16 MHz,
each of the plurality of pilot tones to be transmitted via respective subcarrier positions that vary over
the course ofthe plurality of OFDM symbol durations.
24. The AP of claim 23, the respective subcarrier positions to vary sequentially over the course of
the plurality of OFDM symbol durations.
3572391vl

                                                 29
25. The AP of claim 23, the variation of the respective subcarrier positions over the course of the
plurality of OFDM symbol durations not limited to sequential variation.
26. The AP of claim 23, the logic to determine the subcarrier positions of the plurality of pilot tones
during each OFDM symbol duration based on a symbol count value for that OFDM symbol duration.
27. The AP of claim 26, a respective subcarrier position for each of the plurality of pilot tones to
shift each time the symbol count value is incremented.
28. The AP of claim 26, a respective subcarrier position for each of the plurality of pilot tones to
shift every second time the symbol count value is incremented.
29. The AP of claim 23, the logic to vary the respective subcarrier positions over the course of the
plurality of OFDM symbol durations to enable compensation for Doppler effects of a wireless
channel.
30. The AP of claim 23, the data packet to comprise two pilot tones.
31. The AP of claim 30, a respective subcarrier position for each of the two pilot tones to shift
among a respective set of thirteen subcarriers.
32. The AP of claim 23, the data packet to comprise four, six, eight, or sixteen pilot tones.
3572391vl

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
