                                                  71
                               ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
             An information processing system includes a position measurement device
   configured to receive radio waves in which information has been superimposed from a
 5 plurality of satellites constituting a global positioning system and Quasi-Zenith Satellites
   constituting the Quasi-Zenith Satellite System, and identify its own position on the basis
   of information extracted from the received radio waves; and an estimation unit
   configured to estimate an attention area that should be noted during travel on the basis of
   a trajectory of the position measurement device recognized on the basis of a position
10 identified by the position measurement device at a lane level of a road.

                          26/26
FIG. 29                                   1M200
                                L21 AR201
                           I:
                           II
                                     MIM20
                           I       M0
        ATTETIONAREAAR2 01    20

                                                  1
      INFORMATION PROCESSING SYSTEM AND INFORMATION PROCESSING
                                              METHOD
                              BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
 5 Field of the Invention
             The present invention relates to an information processing system and an
   information processing method.
   Description of Related Art
10           In recent years, a pedestrian guidance device configured to receive radio waves
   sent from Quasi-Zenith Satellites, acquire positioning information and correction
   information, measure an own position using the positioning information and the
   correction information, evaluate the position accuracy of the measured own position,
   extract a route from the own position to a destination, and display the extracted route to
15 the destination and the evaluated position accuracy of the own position has been
   disclosed (refer to Japanese Unexamined Patent Application, First Publication No.
   2015-169505 (hereinafter, Patent Document 1)).
             In addition, in recent years, a moving terminal device configured to, when a
   location of a moving body is mapped on map data on the basis of a positioning result
20 obtained by measuring the location of the moving body, and it is determined that the
   moving body is in a specific section including a plurality of lanes along which a vehicle
   can travel or is located at a certain position within a predetermined distance from the
   specific section on the basis of the mapping result, select a specific lane from among the
   plurality of lanes along which a vehicle can travel on the basis of an estimated passing
25 time for each lane stored in an estimated passing time storage unit, transmit moving route

                                                   2
   notification information for notifying of the selected lane to another moving terminal
   device disposed in another moving body, and share the moving route notification
   information with the other moving terminal device has been disclosed (refer to Japanese
   Unexamined Patent Application, First Publication No. 2010-256367 (hereinafter, Patent
 5 Document 2)).
             In addition, in recent years, a device configured to store information about an
   estimated amount of rainfall in each of areas and each of time periods, acquire a guide
   route to a destination from a departure place that satisfies route search conditions on the
   basis of stored network data, calculate an amount of rainfall in the acquired guide route
10 on the basis of the stored estimated amount of rainfall information, generate rain
   guidance information indicating the calculated amount of rainfall in association with the
   guide route, and display the generated rain guidance information on a display unit has
   been disclosed (refer to Japanese Unexamined Patent Application, First Publication No.
   2012-8047 (hereinafter, Patent Document 3)).
15
                                SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
             However, in the device disclosed in Patent Document 1, actual road traffic
   conditions are not considered in information provided to a user.       Therefore, it is not
   possible to provide useful information to the user in some cases.
20           In addition, while information about a lane selected on the basis of an estimated
   passing time for each lane is provided to a user in the device disclosed in Patent
   Document 2, other information is not considered.       Therefore, it is not possible to
   provide useful information to the user in some cases.
             In addition, while weather information in the guide route has been focused on in
25 the device disclosed in Patent Document 3, an influence of weather information on a road

                                                    3
   is not considered.    Therefore, it may not be possible to provide useful information to a
   user.
             Aspects according to the present invention have been made in view of such
   circumstances, and an object of the present invention is to provide an information
 5 processing system and an information processing method through which it is possible to
   provide more useful information.
             In order to achieve the above object, the present invention provides the
   following aspects.
             (1) An information processing system according to an aspect of the present
10 invention includes a position measurement device configured to receive radio waves in
   which information has been superimposed from a plurality of satellites constituting a
   global positioning system and Quasi-Zenith Satellites constituting the Quasi-Zenith
   Satellite System, and identify its own position on the basis of information extracted from
   the received radio waves; and an estimation unit configured to estimate an attention area
15 that should be noted during travel on the basis of a trajectory of the position
   measurement device recognized on the basis of a position identified by the position
   measurement device at a lane level of a road.
             (2) In the aspect (1), the information processing system may further include a
   guidance information generating unit configured to generate guidance information for
20 avoiding the attention area estimated by the estimation unit at a lane level of a road.
             (3) In the aspect (1) or (2), the information processing system may further
   include a display control unit configured to generate an image to be displayed on a
   display unit on the basis of the attention area estimated by the estimation unit and display
   the generated image on the display unit.

                                                    4
             (4)1In the aspect (3), the display control unit may display the generated image on
   a display unit provided in a vehicle or a display unit of a mobile terminal.
             (5) In the aspect (3) or (4), the display control unit may display an image in
   which the attention area estimated by the estimation unit is displayed on a map on the
 5 display unit.
             (6) In any one of the aspects (1) to (5), the information processing system may
   further include an application unit configured to apply the attention area estimated by the
   estimation unit to map information.
             (7) An information processing method according to an aspect of the present
10 invention causes a computer to perform: receiving radio waves in which information has
   been superimposed from a plurality of satellites constituting a global positioning system
   and Quasi-Zenith Satellites constituting the Quasi-Zenith Satellite System; identifying a
   position of a position measurement device on the basis of information extracted from the
   received radio waves; and estimating an attention area that should be noted during travel
15 on the basis of a trajectory of the position measurement device recognized on the basis of
   the identified position at a lane level of a road.
             (8) In the aspect (1), the information processing system may further include an
   acquisition unit configured to acquire information indicating a movement of a vehicle in
   which the position measurement device is mounted or included; and an extraction unit
20 configured to extract a specific area in which traveling of the vehicle is recommended or
   not recommended on the basis of the position identified by the position measurement
   device and the information indicating a movement of the vehicle acquired by the
   acquisition unit at a lane level of a road.

                                                    5
             (9) In the aspect (8), the extraction unit may extract an area in which an
   acceleration and a deceleration of the vehicle are controlled so as to be a predetermined
   degree or higher as a specific area in which traveling of the vehicle is not recommended.
             (10) In the aspect (8) or (9), the extraction unit may extract an area in which a
 5 turning angle of the vehicle is controlled so as to be a predetermined degree or higher as
   a specific area in which traveling of the vehicle is not recommended.
             (11) In any one of the aspects (8) to (10), the extraction unit may extract an area
   in which lane change is smoothly performed as a specific area in which traveling of the
   vehicle is recommended.
10           (12) In the aspect (11), the extraction unit may extract the specific area on the
   basis of a degree of change in a plurality of pieces of position information specified by
   the position measurement device and a degree of change in the movement of the vehicle
   acquired by the acquisition unit.
             (13) In any one of the aspects (8) to (12), the information processing system
15 may further include an information generating unit configured to generate information to
   be output to an output unit configured to output information on the basis of the specific
   area extracted by the extraction unit.
             (14) In the aspect (13), the information generating unit may generate an image to
   be displayed on a display unit on the basis of specific information generated by the
20 extraction unit and display the generated image on the display unit.
             (15) In the aspect (14), the information generating unit may display the
   generated image on a display unit provided on the vehicle or a display unit of a mobile
   terminal.

                                                   6
             (16)1In the aspect (15), the information generating unit may display an image in
   which the specific area extracted by the extraction unit is displayed on a map on the
   display unit.
             (17) In any one of the aspects (8) to (16), the information processing system
 5 may further include an application unit configured to apply the specific area extracted by
   the extraction unit to map information.
             (18) In the aspect (7), the information processing method may further include:
   acquiring information indicating a movement of a vehicle in which the position
   measurement device is mounted or included; and extracting a specific area in which
10 traveling of the vehicle is recommended or not recommended on the basis of the
   identified position and the acquired information indicating a movement of the vehicle at
   a lane level of a road.
             (19) In the aspect (1), the information processing system may further include a
   risk estimation unit configured to estimate a risk of an occurrence of a predetermined
15 event in the attention area on the basis of information acquired by devices mounted or
   included in a vehicle present in the surroundings of the attention area and weather
   information acquired by a weather observation device at a lane level of a road.
             (20) In the aspect (19), the risk estimation unit may refer to a correlation
   obtained in advance between the information acquired by the devices mounted or
20 included in the vehicle present in the surroundings of the attention area, the weather
   information acquired by the weather observation device, and a risk of an occurrence of a
   predetermined event in the attention area and estimate the risk of the occurrence of the
   predetermined event.
             (21) In the aspect (19) or (20), the information acquired by the devices mounted
25 or included in the vehicle may include at least one piece of information among

                                                  7
   information acquired by devices configured to acquire a change in state of the vehicle,
   information based on an image captured by an imaging unit configured to image the
   surroundings of the vehicle and information acquired by a radar device configured to
   detect a state in the surroundings of the vehicle.
 5           (22) In the aspect (21), the information based on the image captured by the
   imaging unit may be an image recognition accuracy acquired from an analysis result of
   the image, and the information acquired by the radar device may be an object detection
   accuracy of the radar device.
             (23) In any one of the aspects (19) to (22), the estimation unit may acquire
10 information indicating a movement of the vehicle in which the position measurement
   device is mounted or included, and estimate the attention area on the basis of the position
   identified by the position measurement device and the acquired movement of the vehicle
   at a lane level of a road.
             (24) In any one of the aspects (19) to (23), the risk estimation unit may estimate
15 a possibility of the predetermined event being eliminated in the attention area on the
   basis of the information acquired by the devices mounted or included in the vehicle
   present in the surroundings of the attention area and the weather information acquired by
   the weather observation device at a lane level of a road.
             (25) In any one of the aspects (19) to (24), the weather information may be an
20 amount of rainfall.
             (26) In any one of the aspects (19) to (25), the predetermined event may include
   at least one of flooding and freezing of a road surface.
             (27) In any one of the aspects (19) to (26), the risk estimation unit may transmit
   information including the estimated result to a terminal device that a road manager
25 possesses or a terminal device that an occupant of the vehicle possesses.

                                                   8
             (28)1In the aspect (7), the information processing method may further include:
   estimating a risk of an occurrence of a predetermined event in the attention area on the
   basis of information acquired by devices mounted or included in a vehicle present in the
   surroundings of the attention area and weather information acquired by a weather
 5 observation device at a lane level of a road.
            According to the aspects (1) and (7), since the attention area that should be
   noted during travel is estimated on the basis of the trajectory of the position measurement
   device recognized on the basis of the position identified by the position measurement
   device at a lane level of a road, it is possible to provide more useful information.
10           According to the aspect (2), guidance information for avoiding the attention area
   is generated at a lane level of a road, and thus it is possible to lead to a safer route.
            According to the aspects (3) to (5), the display control unit generates an image
   to be displayed on the display unit on the basis of the attention area, and displays the
   generated image on the display unit.      Thus, the user can easily recognize the attention
15 area, and it is possible to provide more convenience for the user.
            According to the aspect (6), since the attention area is applied to map
   information, it is possible to provide map information to which actual road traffic
   conditions are applied to the user.
            According to the aspects (8) to (10), (13), and (18), when the extraction unit
20 extracts a specific area in which traveling of a vehicle is recommended or not
   recommended on the basis of the specified position and the information indicating a
   movement of the vehicle at a lane level of a road, it is possible to provide more useful
   information.
            According to the aspects (11) and (12), since an area in which lane change is
25 smoothly performed is extracted as a specific area in which traveling of the vehicle is

                                                    9
   recommended, it is possible to recognize an appropriate timing at which the vehicle
   should be caused to change lanes
             According to the aspects (14) to (16), when an output control unit generates an
   image to be displayed on the display unit on the basis of specific information generated
 5 by the extraction unit and displays the generated image on the display unit, convenience
   for the user is further improved.
             According to the aspect (17), since the specific area is applied in map
   information, it is possible to provide map information to which actual road conditions are
   applied to the user.
10           According to the aspects (19) to (23), (25), (26), and (28), when the risk
   estimation unit estimates a risk of the occurrence of a predetermined event in the
   attention area at a lane level of a road, it is possible to provide more useful information.
             According to the aspect (24), when the risk estimation unit estimates a
   possibility of a predetermined event being eliminated in the attention area at a lane level
15 of a road, it is possible to provide more useful information.
             According to the aspect (27), the risk estimation unit transmits information
   including the estimated risk to a terminal device that a road manager possesses or a
   terminal device that an occupant of the vehicle possesses.        Accordingly, the road
   manager or the occupant of the vehicle can recognize a risk of the occurrence of the
20 event.    As a result, the road manager can maintain the road in response to the risk and
   perform a desired process.      In addition, the occupant of the vehicle can perform control
   such that the vehicle travels to avoid the attention area.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS

                                                  10
             Fig. 1 is a diagram showing a functional configuration of an information
   processing system 1.
             Fig. 2 is a functional configuration diagram of a position measurement device
   10.
 5           Fig. 3 is a sequence diagram showing processes performed by the information
   processing system 1.
             Fig. 4 is a conceptual diagram 1 showing a processing result of an estimation
   unit of a comparative example.
             Fig. 5 is a conceptual diagram 1 showing a processing result of an estimation
10 unit 82 of the present embodiment.
             Fig. 6 is a conceptual diagram 2 showing a processing result of a record
   generation device of a comparative example.
             Fig. 7 is a conceptual diagram 2 showing a processing result of the estimation
   unit 82 of the present embodiment.
15           Fig. 8 is a diagram showing an example of an image IM displayed on a display
   unit 28 mounted in a vehicle M.
             Fig. 9 is a diagram showing a functional configuration of an information
   processing system 101.
             Fig. 10 is a functional configuration diagram of a position measurement device
20 110.
             Fig. 11 is a sequence diagram showing processes performed by the information
   processing system 101.
             Fig. 12 is a flowchart showing a flow of processes performed by an extraction
   unit 182.

                                                  11
             Fig. 13 is a diagram for describing a specific example of extracting a specific
   area.
             Fig. 14 is a diagram for describing extraction of a specific area in which lane
   change is smoothly performed.
 5           Fig. 15 is a flowchart showing a flow of processes performed by a guidance
   information generation device 190.
             Fig. 16 is a flowchart showing a flow of processes performed by a navigation
   device 198.
             Fig. 17 is a diagram showing an example of an image IM100 displayed on a
10 display unit.
             Fig. 18 is a diagram showing an example of an image IM101 displayed on a
   display unit.
             Fig. 19 is a diagram showing a functional configuration of a risk estimation
   system 201.
15           Fig. 20 is a functional configuration diagram of an in-vehicle system 210.
             Fig. 21 is a conceptual diagram of a processing result of a position measurement
   unit 224.
             Fig. 22 is a sequence diagram showing processes performed when an attention
   area is extracted.
20           Fig. 23 is a flowchart showing a flow of processes performed by an extraction
   unit 282.
             Fig. 24 is a diagram for describing a specific example of extraction of an
   attention area.
             Fig. 25 is a flowchart showing a flow of processes performed by a correlation
25 learning unit 262.

                                                 12
             Fig. 26 is a diagram showing an example of an information table 263 used when
   the correlation learning unit 262 learns a correlation.
             Fig. 27 is a flowchart showing a flow of processes performed by a risk
   calculating unit 264.
 5           Fig. 28 is a conceptual diagram of processes performed by the risk estimation
   system 201 of the present embodiment.
             Fig. 29 is a diagram showing an example of an image IM200 displayed on a
   display unit of a navigation device 298.
10                              EXPLANATION OF REFERENCES
    1 Information processing system
    10 Position measurement device
    12 GPS antenna
    14 Quasi-Zenith antenna
15  18 Position identifying unit (Position measurement device)
   20 Collection unit
   22 Communication unit
   24 Control unit (display control unit)
   26 Application unit
20 28 Display unit
   29 Map information
   30 Record generation device
   34 Map matching unit
   36 Travel record generating unit
25 40 Weather information management device

                                               13
   60 Risk calculation device
   70 Traffic information processing device
   80 Attention area estimation device
   82 Estimation unit
 5 90 Guidance information generation device
   101 Information processing system
   110 Position measurement device
   112 GPS antenna
   114 Quasi-Zenith antenna
10 118 Position identifying unit (Position measurement device)
   120 Collection unit
   122 Communication unit
   124 Control unit (display control unit)
   126 Application unit
15 128 Display unit
   129 Map information
   130 Record generation device
   134 Map matching unit
   136 Travel record generating unit
20 140 Weather information management device
   160 Risk calculation device
   170 Traffic information processing device
   180 Specific area extraction device
   182 Extraction unit
25 190 Guidance information generation device

                                             14
   201 Risk estimation system
   210 In-vehicle system
   212 GPS antenna
   214 Quasi-Zenith antenna
 5 216 Various sensors
   218 Radar device
   220 Camera
   222 Image analyzing unit
   224 Position measurement unit (Position measurement device)
10 226 Collection unit
   228 Communication unit
   232 Display unit
   234 Map information
   240 Record generation device
15 244 Map matching unit
   246 Travel record generating unit
   250 Weather information management device
   260 Risk calculation device
   262 Correlation learning unit
20 264 Risk calculating unit
   270 Traffic information processing device
   280 Attention area extraction device
   282 Extraction unit
25                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION

                                                   15
             A first embodiment of an information processing system and an information
   processing method of the present invention will be described below with reference to the
   drawings.
             Fig. 1 is a diagram showing a functional configuration of an information
 5 processing system 1. The information processing system 1 includes, for example, a
   position measurement device 10, a record generation device 30, a weather information
   management device 40, a measurement device 50, an information provision device 52, a
   risk calculation device 60, a traffic information processing device 70, an attention area
   estimation device 80, and a guidance information generation device 90.         These devices
10 communicate with each other via a network such as a local area network (LAN), a wide
   area network (WAN), a mobile phone network, a Wi-Fi network, or the Internet.            Here,
   the information processing system 1 may include a plurality of position measurement
   devices 10.
             Fig. 2 is a functional configuration diagram of the position measurement device
15  10.  The position measurement device 10 is, for example, a device mounted in a
   2-wheeled or 4-wheeled vehicle.       The position measurement device 10 includes, for
   example, a Global Positioning System (GPS) antenna 12, a Quasi-Zenith antenna 14,
   various sensors 16, a position identifying unit 18, a collection unit 20, a communication
   unit 22, a control unit (display control unit) 24, an application unit 26, a display unit 28,
20 and map information 29.       Here, the position measurement device 10 may be a device
   constituting part of a mobile terminal.     In this case, when an occupant of a vehicle
   possesses a mobile terminal in which the position measurement device 10 is mounted or
   brings it into the vehicle, position information corresponding to position information of
   the vehicle is transmitted to the record generation device 30.     In addition, detection
25 values of the various sensors 16 may be acquired from the vehicle through the

                                                 16
   communication unit 22.      The devices included in the mobile terminal may be some of
   the various sensors.
             The control unit 24 and the application unit 26 may be realized when a processor
   such as a central processing unit (CPU) executes a program stored in a storage unit.       In
 5 addition, all or some of these functional units may be realized by hardware such as a
   large scale integration (LSI) circuit, an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), and
   a field-programmable gate array (FPGA), and a circuit configuration for realizing
   functions of these functional units may be included.     In addition, these functional units
   may be realized in cooperation with software and hardware.        The map information 29 is
10 stored in, for example, a nonvolatile storage medium such as a flash memory and a hard
   disk drive (HDD).
             The GPS antenna 12 receives radio waves in which information (positioning
   information) has been superimposed from a plurality of GPS satellites.       Here, the GPS
   antenna 12 is not limited to those for GPS satellites, and, for example, radio waves may
15 be received from satellites constituting any global positioning system (global navigation
   satellite system (GNSS)) such as GLONASS or Galileo.
             The Quasi-Zenith antenna 14 receives radio waves in which information
   (positioning information and correction information to be described below) has been
   superimposed from at least one Quasi-Zenith Satellite among a plurality of Quasi-Zenith
20 Satellites constituting the Quasi-Zenith Satellite System.     The Quasi-Zenith Satellite
   System is a satellite system in which a plurality of satellites having orbits that pass near
   the zenith (directly above) of a certain area (for example, Japan) are combined.      The
   Quasi-Zenith antenna 14 is highly likely to receive radio waves that are not influenced by
   multipath due to a high rise building or the like from the Quasi-Zenith Satellites.     Here,
25 the GPS antenna 12 and the Quasi-Zenith antenna 14 may be integrated.

                                                  17
             The various sensors 16 include, for example, an acceleration sensor, a direction
   sensor, and a vehicle speed sensor.     The acceleration sensor is, for example, a three-axis
   acceleration sensor.    The acceleration sensor detects an acceleration of a vehicle, and
   outputs the detection result to the position identifying unit 18.    The direction sensor
 5 measures magnetism, detects an orientation of a vehicle with respect to the earth and
   outputs the detection result to the position identifying unit 18.    The vehicle speed sensor
   includes, for example, a wheel speed sensor attached to wheels and a controller
   configured to combine these detection results.      The vehicle speed sensor detects a speed
   of a vehicle and outputs the detection result to the position identifying unit 18.    The
10 steering angle sensor detects a steering angle of a steering wheel and outputs the
   detection result to the position identifying unit 18 (or the collection unit 20).
             The position identifying unit 18 identifies the position of the vehicle (itself) by
   performing a positioning operation of identifying a position of the device itself according
   to, for example, the principle of triangulation, at predetermined sampling intervals, on the
15 basis of radio waves in which information received by the GPS antenna 12 has been
   superimposed and radio waves in which information received by the Quasi-Zenith
   antenna 14 has been superimposed.
             The positioning information includes satellite orbit information (ephemeris and
   almanac) about a corresponding satellite, a correction value of a clock, and a correction
20 coefficient of an ionospheric layer.    The correction information is information derived
   by a reference device serving as an electronic reference point provided at a
   predetermined position in advance.       The correction information is previously
   transmitted to the Quasi-Zenith Satellite from a facility on the ground side.     Here, on the
   basis of the position of the device itself and the position of the GPS satellite or the
25 Quasi-Zenith Satellite (hereinafter referred to as a subject satellite) which are acquired in

                                                   18
   advance, the reference device derives a geometric distance from the device itself to the
   subject satellite.   In addition, the reference device derives a pseudo distance between the
   device itself and the subject satellite on the basis of a propagation time of radio waves
   acquired from the subject satellite.     The reference device acquires a difference between
 5 the pseudo distance and the geometric distance as an error.       Then, the reference device
   transmits error information to a ground station device.       The ground station device
   derives parameters of a function of deriving an error of a pseudo distance for each
   coordinate point on the basis of the error acquired from a plurality of reference devices,
   and transmits the derived parameters of the function to the Quasi-Zenith Satellite as
10 correction information.
             In addition, the position identifying unit 18 derives a change in position of the
   subject vehicle on the basis of the detection results of the various sensors 16 and the like
   mounted in the vehicle.      The position identifying unit 18 may correct a position of the
   vehicle by performing a positioning operation on the basis of the derived change in
15 position.    In addition, the position identifying unit 18 may identify the position of the
   vehicle on the basis of radio waves in which information received by the Quasi-Zenith
   antenna 14 has been superimposed without using radio waves in which information
   received by the GPS antenna 12 has been superimposed.
             When position information identified by the position identifying unit 18 is
20 collected and a predetermined amount of position information is collected, the collection
   unit 20 transmits the position information collected using the communication unit 22 to
   the record generation device 30.      In addition, the collection unit 20 may collect the
   detection results of the various sensors 16 and transmit the collected detection results to
   the record generation device 30.

                                                  19
             The control unit 24 generates information to be presented to a user on the basis
   of information generated by the record generation device 30, the attention area estimation
   device 80, and the guidance information generation device 90 and displays the generated
   information on the display unit 28.     The application unit 26 applies the information
 5 transmitted by the record generation device 30 and the attention area estimation device
   80 to the map information 29.
             The display unit 28 includes, for example, a display device such as a liquid
   crystal display (LCD) and an organic electroluminescence (EL) display.
             The map information 29 is, for example, information in which a road shape is
10 expressed by a link indicating a road and a node connected by links.      The map
   information 29 may include a road curvature, point of interest (POI) information, and the
   like.   In addition, the map information 29 includes, for example, road information such
   as information about the center of a lane or information about a boundary of a lane.     The
   road information includes information indicating a type of a road such as a highway, a
15 toll road, a national road, or a prefectural road and information about the number of lanes
   on the road, the width of each lane, the slope of the road, the position (coordinates
   including longitude and latitude) of the road, the curvature of the curve of the lane, a
   position at which lanes converge and a position of a branch point, and the like.     The
   map information 29 is updated at any time according to the process of the application
20 unit 26.
             The record generation device 30 includes, for example, map information 32, a
   map matching unit 34, and a travel record generating unit 36.     The map information 32
   includes the same information as the map information 29.
             The map matching unit 34 performs map matching processing on the
25 information acquired from the position measurement device 10.         The map matching

                                                 20
   processing is a process in which a link at which the position measurement device 10 is
   located among elements (for example, a link) included in the map information 32 on the
   basis of the acquired position information and the map information 32 is determined.
   According to the map matching process, a link and a lane where the position
 5 measurement device 10 is located and which are included in the map information 32 are
   determined.
             The travel record generating unit 36 acquires the processing result of the map
   matching unit 34 and generates travel record information on the basis of the acquired
   information.     The travel record information is information indicating an actual travel
10 record (trajectory) of the vehicle in which the position measurement device 10 is
   mounted.      The travel record information includes, for example, information about
   positions through which the vehicle has actually traveled, and information about a road
   link and a road lane.    The travel record information is transmitted to the vehicle or the
   attention area estimation device 80.
15           The weather information management device 40 includes, for example, weather
   and disaster information 42.     In the weather and disaster information 42, information
   about weather associated with each area or information about disasters is stored.
             In the weather and disaster information 42, for example, the measurement
   results (for example, rainfall) of the measurement device 50 acquired from the
20 measurement device 50 and weather and disaster information (for example, heavy rain
   information) acquired from the information provision device 52 are stored.
             The measurement device 50 is, for example, a weather observation device
   provided at a predetermined position.     The measurement device 50 observes, for
   example, an amount of precipitation, a wind direction, a wind speed, a temperature, and
25 the duration of sunshine.

                                                 21
             The information provision device 52 is, for example, a server device managed
   by national or local organizations or the like and provides weather information and
   disaster information to the weather information management device 40.         The disaster
   information is, for example, information about natural disasters such as heavy rain, heavy
 5 snow, and earthquakes.
             The risk calculation device 60 includes, for example, a risk calculating unit 62
   and previously calculated risk information 64.     The risk calculating unit 62 derives a
   risk of occurrence of abnormalities on the road on the basis of weather and disaster
   information acquired from the weather information management device 40 and vehicle
10 information acquired from the record generation device 30.      An abnormality on the road
   is an abnormality that is not favorable for running of the vehicle, and is, for example,
   road flooding causing a hydroplaning phenomenon or freezing of a road surface.         The
   previously calculated risk information 64 is information about a risk calculated in the
   past by the risk calculating unit 62.
15           The traffic information processing device 70 includes, for example, a 4-wheeled
   traffic information analyzing unit 72, a 2-wheeled traffic information analyzing unit 74,
   and an integrated analyzing unit 76.    The 4-wheeled traffic information analyzing unit
   72 acquires 4-wheeled vehicle information acquired by the record generation device 30
   and analyzes the acquired 4-wheeled vehicle information.       The 2-wheeled traffic
20 information analyzing unit 74 acquires 2-wheeled vehicle information acquired by the
   record generation device 30 and analyzes the acquired 2-wheeled vehicle information.
   The integrated analyzing unit 76 generates traffic information on the basis of the
   acquired 4-wheeled vehicle and 2-wheeled vehicle information.        The traffic information
   is, for example, information indicating the degree of congestion in a predetermined
25 section of a road.

                                                  22
             The attention area estimation device 80 includes, for example, an estimation unit
   82 and map information 84.      The estimation unit 82 estimates an attention area that
   should be noted while the vehicle travels on the basis of the trajectory of the position
   measurement device 10 recognized on the basis of the position of the position
 5 measurement device 10 identified by the position measurement device 10 acquired from
   the record generation device 30 at a lane level of a road.    Estimation at the lane level
   means estimation of a lane and a position where an attention area is located within a road
   including a plurality of lanes.   In addition, the estimation unit 82 applies the estimated
   attention area to map information.     Accordingly, in the map information 84, the
10 attention area is associated with a road link or node.
             The guidance information generation device 90 includes, for example, a route
   generating unit 92 and a guidance information generating unit 94.       The route generating
   unit 92 generates a route to a destination in response to a request from a user.    The
   guidance information generating unit 94 generates guidance information which is
15 information output to the user while traveling along the route generated by the route
   generating unit 92 and which is used for guidance so that the vehicle can smoothly travel
   along the generated route.     The guidance information generating unit 94 generates
   guidance information for avoiding the attention area estimated by the estimation unit 82
   at a lane level of a road.  The route to the destination and the guidance information are
20 transmitted to a vehicle M that has transmitted the request.    A navigation device
   mounted in the vehicle M that has transmitted the request displays the route to the
   destination and the guidance information as an image on a display unit or outputs it as
   sound from a speaker according to a traveling position and a traveling state of the vehicle
   M.     Here, information acquired by devices included in the information processing
25 system 1, processing procedures of the devices, and processing results may be

                                                  23
   transmitted to a manager terminal 100 that manages the system, and a mobile terminal
    110.
             Fig. 3 is a sequence diagram showing processes performed by the information
   processing system 1. First, the position identifying unit 18 of the position measurement
 5 device 10 acquires position information of the device itself (Step S100).     Next, the
   collection unit 20 of the position measurement device 10 waits until a predetermined
   amount of position information accumulates in a storage device (not shown) of the
   device itself (Step S102).    Next, the collection unit 20 of the position measurement
   device 10 transmits the accumulated information to the record generation device 30 using
10 the communication unit 22 (Step S104).
            Next, the map matching unit 34 of the record generation device 30 performs a
   map matching process (Step S106).        Next, the travel record generating unit 36 of the
   record generation device 30 generates travel record information for each road (Step
   S108).    Next, the record generation device 30 transmits the generated travel record
15 information to the attention area estimation device 80 (Step S110).      The travel record
   information is transmitted to, for example, the position measurement device 10, and may
   be displayed as an image showing travel record information on the display unit 28 of the
   position measurement device 10.       The image showing travel record information is, for
   example, an image in which the trajectory of the position measurement device 10 is
20 displayed on a map.
            Next, the estimation unit 82 of the attention area estimation device 80 estimates
   an attention area on the basis of the travel record information (Step S112).     Next, the
   estimation unit 82 transmits information about the estimated attention area to the position
   measurement device 10, a vehicle, or the like (Step S114).       Accordingly, processes of
25 one routine of this flowchart end.

                                                  24
             In addition, the application unit 26 of the position measurement device 10
   applies the attention area information to the map information 29.       For example, the
   application unit 26 associates position information of the attention area with the map
   information 29 (a link and the like).     In addition, a navigation device may be mounted in
 5 the vehicle, and the navigation device may use the map information 29.         The navigation
   device determines a route from the position (or any input position) of the vehicle to a
   destination designated by an occupant with reference to the map information 29.
             The navigation device provides route guidance using the display unit 28 on the
   basis of the determined route.
10           In this case, the navigation device selects a route that avoids the attention area
   and when there is an attention area along the route, provides guidance to a lane in which
   the attention area can be avoided.
             In addition, the estimation unit 82 may apply information about the estimated
   attention area to the map information 84.      In this case, the guidance information
15 generating unit 94 generates guidance information for avoiding the attention area at a
   lane level of a road.    The guidance information that is associated with the route
   calculated by the route generating unit 92 is transmitted to the vehicle.     Then, the route
   to the destination, guidance for avoiding the attention area, and the like are displayed on
   the display unit of the vehicle.
20           Fig. 4 is a conceptual diagram 1 showing a processing result of an estimation
   unit of a comparative example.       In the shown example, trajectories of a plurality of
   vehicles that avoid a damaged area AR in which a road is damaged and travel along a
   lane LI are shown.
             In the comparative example, trajectories of positions identified using
25 information transmitted from GPS satellites are shown.

                                                  25
             The damaged area is an example of the "attention area."
             In Fig. 4(A), according to positioning errors of identified positions, position
   information is plotted on the lane LI, a position outside the lane LI, and a lane L2.     As
   a result, as shown in Fig. 4(B), since the estimation unit of the comparative example
 5 estimates that the vehicle has traveled along the lane LI and the lane L2, it is not possible
   to extract the attention area in some cases.
             Fig. 5 is a conceptual diagram 1 showing a processing result of the estimation
   unit 82 of the present embodiment.      In Fig. 5(A), since the positioning error at the
   identified position is lower than in the comparative example, position information is
10 plotted on the lane LI in which the vehicle has actually traveled.     As a result, as shown
   in Fig. 5(B), the estimation unit 82 estimates that the vehicle has traveled along the lane
   LI and estimates that the lane L2 is the attention area AR.     More specifically, the
   estimation unit 82 refers to position information, continuously sets an area having a size
   set (with reference to a predetermined position) in a predetermined lane, and estimates an
15 area in which position information is not provided in the area (for example, in Fig. 5(A),
   ARi, ARI#) as an attention area.      Here, a predetermined size of an area is a size that is
   experimentally obtained in advance.      In addition, when an attention area is estimated,
   the estimation unit 82 sets a lane in which a predetermined number of position
   information items or more are provided (a predetermined number of vehicles or more
20 have traveled) at a predetermined time as a processing target, and may exclude a lane in
   which only less than a predetermined number of position information items are provided
   from a processing target.     When only less than a predetermined number of position
   information items are provided, few vehicles travel along the lane and the lane may not
   be an attention area.

                                                   26
            As described above, the information processing system 1 of the present
   embodiment can identify a position at which the vehicle in which the position
   measurement device 10 is mounted has actually traveled more accurately, and can
   identify a lane along which the vehicle has actually traveled and a lane along which no
 5 vehicles have traveled.     As a result, the estimation unit 82 can estimate the attention
   area that should be noted during travel on the basis of the trajectory of the position
   measurement device 10 at a lane level of a road.
             Fig. 6 is a conceptual diagram 2 showing a processing result of a record
   generation device of a comparative example.         In the shown example, trajectories of a
10 plurality of vehicles that have traveled along a lane LI and a lane L2 are shown.         In the
   comparative example, trajectories of positions identified using information transmitted
   from GPS satellites are shown.
             In Fig. 6(A), according to positioning errors of identified positions, position
   information is plotted on an area excluding an area AR2 in the lane LI and the lane L2.
15 As a result, as shown in Fig. 6(B), the estimation unit of the comparative example
   estimates that the vehicles have traveled along the lane LI and the lane L2, but have not
   traveled the area AR2.     In this case, since there is a positioning error, it is suspected that
   a problem may be hidden in part of the area AR2, but it is not possible to estimate an area
   in which a problem actually occurs in the area AR2.
20           Fig. 7 is a conceptual diagram 2 showing a processing result of the estimation
   unit 82 of the present embodiment.       In Fig. 7(A), since the positioning error at the
   identified position is lower than in the comparative example, position information is
   plotted at the position on the lane LI excluding a damaged area AR.          As a result, as
   shown in Fig. 7(B), the estimation unit 82 can estimate that vehicles have traveled along
25 the lane LI or the lane L2 to avoid the damaged area AR and can identify the damaged

                                                 27
   area AR.     More specifically, the estimation unit 82 refers to position information and
   estimates an area in which no position information is provided in an area (for example,
   Fig. 7(A), AR1) having a size set in a predetermined lane (with reference to
   predetermined position information) as an attention area.
 5           In this manner, the estimation unit 82 of the present embodiment can identify a
   position at which the vehicle in which the position measurement device 10 is mounted
   has actually traveled more accurately, and can estimate a problem area on the road more
   accurately.
             Fig. 8 is a diagram showing an example of an image IM displayed on the display
10 unit 28 mounted in the vehicle M.
             The image IM is an example of an image in which an attention area AR3 is
   displayed on a map.      The attention area AR3 is an area in which it is estimated that
   there is abnormality on the road or there may be an obstacle on the road because other
   vehicles do not travel there.    Therefore, the user can make the vehicle change lane in
15 advance in order to avoid traveling the attention area AR3.
             According to the embodiment described above, when a reception unit (the GPS
   antenna 12, the Quasi-Zenith antenna 14) configured to receive radio waves in which
   information has been superimposed from GPS satellites and Quasi-Zenith Satellites
   constituting the Quasi-Zenith Satellite System in an area in which the device is
20 positioned, the position identifying unit 18 configured to identify position information of
   the device itself on the basis of information extracted from the radio waves received by
   the reception unit, and the estimation unit 82 configured to estimate an attention area that
   should be noted during travel on the basis of the trajectory of the position measurement
   device 10 recognized on the basis of the position information identified by the position

                                                  28
   identifying unit 18 at a lane level of a road are included, it is possible to provide more
   useful information.
            A second embodiment of an information processing system and an information
   processing method of the present invention will be described below with reference to the
 5 drawings.
             Fig. 9 is a diagram showing a functional configuration of an information
   processing system 101.       The information processing system 101 includes, for example,
   a position measurement device 110, a record generation device 130, a weather
   information management device 140, a measurement device 150, an information
10 provision device 152, a risk calculation device 160, a traffic information processing
   device 170, a specific area extraction device 180, and a guidance information generation
   device 190.     These devices communicate with each other via a network such as a local
   area network (LAN), a wide area network (WAN), a mobile phone network, a Wi-Fi
   network, or the Internet.     Here, the information processing system 101 may include a
15 plurality of position measurement devices 110.
             Fig. 10 is a functional configuration diagram of the position measurement device
   110.    The position measurement device 110 is, for example, a device mounted in a
   2-wheeled or 4-wheeled vehicle.        The position measurement device 110 includes, for
   example, a Global Positioning System (GPS) antenna 112, a Quasi-Zenith antenna 114,
20 various sensors 116, a position identifying unit 118, a collection unit (acquisition unit)
   120, a communication unit 122, a control unit (display control unit) 124, an application
   unit 126, a display unit 128, and map information 129.       Here, the position measurement
   device 110 may be a device constituting part of a mobile terminal.        In this case, when an
   occupant of a vehicle possesses a mobile terminal in which the position measurement
25 device 110 is mounted or brings it into the vehicle, position information corresponding to

                                                  29
   position information of the vehicle is transmitted to the record generation device 130.
   Here, detection values of the various sensors 116 may be acquired from the vehicle
   through the communication unit 122.         The devices included in the mobile terminal may
   be some of the various sensors.
 5            The control unit 124 and the application unit 126 may be realized when a
   processor such as a central processing unit (CPU) executes a program stored in a storage
   unit.    In addition, all or some of these functional units may be realized by hardware such
   as a large scale integration (LSI) circuit, an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC),
   and a field-programmable gate array (FPGA), and a circuit configuration for realizing
10 functions of these functional units may be included.       In addition, these functional units
   may be realized in cooperation with software and hardware.          The map information 129
   is stored in, for example, a nonvolatile storage medium such as a flash memory and a
   hard disk drive (HDD).
              The GPS antenna 112 receives radio waves in which information (positioning
15 information) has been superimposed from a plurality of GPS satellites.         Here, the GPS
   antenna 112 is not limited to those for GPS satellites, and, for example, radio waves may
   be received from satellites constituting any global positioning system (global navigation
   satellite system (GNSS)) such as GLONASS or Galileo.
              The Quasi-Zenith antenna 114 receives radio waves in which information
20 (positioning information and correction information to be described below) has been
   superimposed from at least one Quasi-Zenith Satellite among a plurality of Quasi-Zenith
   Satellites constituting the Quasi-Zenith Satellite System.      The Quasi-Zenith Satellite
   System is a satellite system in which a plurality of satellites having orbits that pass near
   the zenith (directly above) of a certain area (for example, Japan) are combined.        The
25 Quasi-Zenith antenna 114 is highly likely to receive radio waves that are not influenced

                                                 30
   by multipath due to a high rise building or the like from the Quasi-Zenith Satellites.
   Here, the GPS antenna 112 and the Quasi-Zenith antenna 114 may be integrated.
             The various sensors 116 include, for example, an acceleration sensor, a direction
   sensor, a vehicle speed sensor, and a steering angle sensor.     The acceleration sensor is,
 5 for example, a three-axis acceleration sensor.    The acceleration sensor detects an
   acceleration of a vehicle, and outputs the detection result to the position identifying unit
    118.   The direction sensor measures magnetism, detects an orientation of a vehicle with
   respect to the earth and outputs the detection result to the position identifying unit 118.
   The vehicle speed sensor includes, for example, a wheel speed sensor attached to wheels
10 and a controller configured to combine these detection results.     The vehicle speed
   sensor detects a speed of a vehicle and outputs the detection result to the position
   identifying unit 118 or the collection unit 120.    The steering angle sensor detects a
   steering angle of a steering wheel and outputs the detection result to the position
   identifying unit 118 or the collection unit 120.    The detection result of the various
15 sensors 116 is an example of "information indicating a movement of a vehicle."
             The position identifying unit 118 specifies the position of the vehicle by
   performing a positioning operation of identifying a position of the device itself according
   to, for example, the principle of triangulation, at predetermined sampling intervals, on the
   basis of radio waves in which information received by the GPS antenna 112 has been
20 superimposed and radio waves in which information received by the Quasi-Zenith
   antenna 114 has been superimposed.
             The positioning information includes satellite orbit information (ephemeris and
   almanac) about a corresponding satellite, a correction value of a clock, and a correction
   coefficient of an ionospheric layer.    The correction information is information derived
25 by a reference device serving as an electronic reference point provided at a

                                                  31
   predetermined position in advance.        The correction information is previously
   transmitted to the Quasi-Zenith Satellite from a facility on the ground side.     Here, on the
   basis of the position of the device itself and the position of the GPS satellite or the
   Quasi-Zenith Satellite (hereinafter referred to as a subject satellite) which are acquired in
 5 advance, the reference device derives a geometric distance from the device itself to the
   subject satellite.   In addition, the reference device derives a pseudo distance between the
   device itself and the subject satellite on the basis of a propagation time of radio waves
   acquired from the subject satellite.     The reference device acquires a difference between
   the pseudo distance and the geometric distance as an error.      Then, the reference device
10 transmits error information to a ground station device.      The ground station device
   derives parameters of a function of deriving an error of a pseudo distance for each
   coordinate point on the basis of the error acquired from a plurality of reference devices,
   and transmits the derived parameters of the function to the Quasi-Zenith Satellite as
   correction information.
15           In addition, the position identifying unit 118 derives a change in position of the
   subject vehicle on the basis of the detection results of the various sensors 116 and the like
   mounted in the vehicle.      The position identifying unit 118 may correct a position of the
   vehicle by performing a positioning operation on the basis of the derived change in
   position.    In addition, the position identifying unit 118 may identify the position of the
20 vehicle on the basis of radio waves in which information received by the Quasi-Zenith
   antenna 114 has been superimposed without using radio waves in which information
   received by the GPS antenna 112 has been superimposed.
             When position information specified by the position identifying unit 118 and
   detection results of the various sensors 116 are collected, and a predetermined amount of
25 position information is collected, the collection unit 120 transmits the position

                                                  32
   information collected using the communication unit 122 to the record generation device
    130.
             The control unit 124 generates information to be presented to a user on the basis
   of information generated by the record generation device 130, the specific area extraction
 5 device 180, and the guidance information generation device 190 and displays the
   generated information on the display unit 128.      The application unit 126 applies
   information transmitted by the record generation device 130 or the specific area
   extraction device 180 to the map information 129.
             The display unit 128 includes, for example, a display device such as a liquid
10 crystal display (LCD) and an organic electroluminescence (EL) display.
             The map information 129 is, for example, information in which a road shape is
   expressed by a link indicating a road and a node connected by links.      The map
   information 129 may include a road curvature, point of interest (POI) information, and
   the like.   In addition, the map information 129 includes, for example, road information
15 such as information about the center of a lane or information about a boundary of a lane.
   The road information includes information indicating a type of a road such as a highway,
   a toll road, a national road, or a prefectural road and information about the number of
   lanes on the road, the width of each lane, the slope of the road, the position (coordinates
   including longitude and latitude) of the road, the curvature of the curve of the lane, a
20 position at which lanes converge and a position of a branch point, and the like.     The
   map information 129 is updated at any time according to the process of the application
   unit 126.
             The record generation device 130 includes, for example, map information 132, a
   map matching unit 134, and a travel record generating unit 136.      The map information
25  132 includes the same information as the map information 129.

                                                 33
             The map matching unit 134 performs map matching processing on the
   information acquired from the position measurement device 110.        The map matching
   unit 134 performs a process in which a link at which the position measurement device
    110 is located among elements (for example, links) included in the map information 132
 5 on the basis of the acquired position information and the map information 132 is
   determined.     According to the map matching process, a link and a lane where the
   position measurement device 110 is located and which are included in the map
   information 132 are determined.
             The travel record generating unit 136 acquires the processing results of the map
10 matching unit 134, and generates travel record information on the basis of the acquired
   information.     The travel record information is information indicating an actual travel
   record of the vehicle in which the position measurement device 110 is mounted.        The
   travel record information includes, for example, information about positions through
   which the vehicle has actually traveled and information about a road link and a road lane.
15 The travel record information is transmitted to the vehicle or the specific area extraction
   device 180.
             The weather information management device 140 includes, for example,
   weather and disaster information 142.     In the weather and disaster information 142,
   information about weather associated with each area or information about disasters is
20 stored.
             In the weather and disaster information 142, for example, the measurement
   results (for example, rainfall) of the measurement device 150 acquired from the
   measurement device 150 and weather and disaster information (for example, heavy rain
   information) acquired from the information provision device 152 are stored.

                                                 34
             The measurement device 150 is, for example, a weather observation device
   provided at a predetermined position.     The measurement device 150 observes, for
   example, an amount of precipitation, a wind direction, a wind speed, a temperature, and
   the duration of sunshine.
 5           The information provision device 152 is, for example, a server device managed
   by national or local organizations or the like and provides weather information and
   disaster information to the weather information management device 140.        The disaster
   information is, for example, information about natural disasters such as heavy rain, heavy
   snow, and earthquakes.
10           The risk calculation device 160 includes, for example, a risk calculating unit 162
   and previously calculated risk information 164.     The risk calculating unit 162 derives a
   risk of occurrence of abnormalities on the road on the basis of weather and disaster
   information acquired from the weather information management device 140 and vehicle
   information acquired from the record generation device 130.      An abnormality on the
15 road is an abnormality that is not favorable for running of the vehicle, for example, road
   flooding causing a hydroplaning phenomenon or freezing of a road surface.        The
   previously calculated risk information 164 is information about a risk calculated by the
   risk calculating unit 162 in the past.
             The traffic information processing device 170 includes, for example, a
20 4-wheeled traffic information analyzing unit 172, a 2-wheeled traffic information
   analyzing unit 174, and an integrated analyzing unit 176.     The 4-wheeled traffic
   information analyzing unit 172 acquires 4-wheeled vehicle information acquired by the
   record generation device 130 and analyzes the acquired 4-wheeled vehicle information.
   The 2-wheeled traffic information analyzing unit 174 acquires 2-wheeled vehicle
25 information acquired by the record generation device 130 and analyzes the acquired

                                                 35
   2-wheeled vehicle information.      The integrated analyzing unit 176 generates traffic
   information on the basis of the acquired 4-wheeled vehicle and 2-wheeled vehicle
   information.    The traffic information is, for example, information indicating the degree
   of congestion in a predetermined section of a road.
 5           The specific area extraction device 180 includes, for example, an extraction unit
    182 and map information 184.      The extraction unit 182 extracts a specific area in which
   traveling of a vehicle is recommended or not recommended on the basis of the position
   of the position measurement device 110 specified by the position measurement device
    110 acquired from the record generation device 130 and information indicating a
10 movement of a vehicle collected by the collection unit 120 of the position measurement
   device 110 at a lane level of a road.   Estimation at the lane level means estimation of a
   lane and a position where a specific area is located within a road including a plurality of
   lanes.   In addition, the extraction unit 182 applies the extracted specific area to map
   information.    Accordingly, in the map information 184, the specific area is associated
15 with a road link or node.
             The guidance information generation device 190 includes, for example, a route
   generating unit 192 and a guidance information generating unit (information generating
   unit) 194.    The route generating unit 192 generates a route to the destination in response
   to a request from a user.    The guidance information generating unit 194 generates
20 guidance information which is information output to the user while traveling along the
   route generated by the route generating unit 192 and which is used for guidance so that
   the vehicle can smoothly travel along the generated route.      The guidance information
   generating unit 194 generates information for the user to recognize the specific area
   extracted by the extraction unit 182 at a lane level of a road.   The route to the
25 destination and the information are transmitted to the vehicle that has transmitted the

                                                   36
   request.   A navigation device 198 mounted in the vehicle that has transmitted the
   request displays the route to the destination and the information as an image on a display
   unit or outputs them as sound from a speaker according to a traveling position and a
   traveling state of the vehicle.    Here, information acquired by devices included in the
 5 information processing system 101, processing procedures of the devices, and processing
   results may be transmitted to the position measurement device 110, a manager terminal
    1100 that manages the system, and a mobile terminal 1110.
             Fig. 11 is a sequence diagram showing processes performed by the information
   processing system 101.      First, the position identifying unit 118 of the position
10 measurement device 110 acquires position information of the device itself and
   information indicating a movement of a vehicle (Step S1100).         Next, the collection unit
    120 of the position measurement device 110 waits until a predetermined amount of
   position information and information indicating a movement of a vehicle accumulates in
   a storage device (not shown) of the device itself (Step S1102).      Next, the collection unit
15  120 of the position measurement device 110 transmits the accumulated information using
   the communication unit 122 to the record generation device 130 (Step S 1104).
             Next, the map matching unit 134 of the record generation device 130 performs a
   map matching process (Step S1106).         Next, the travel record generating unit 136 of the
   record generation device 130 generates travel record information for each road (Step
20 S1108).    Next, the record generation device 130 transmits the generated travel record
   information and information indicating a movement of a vehicle to the specific area
   extraction device 180 (Step S1110).       The travel record information is transmitted to, for
   example, the position measurement device 110 and may be displayed as an image
   showing travel record information on the display unit 128 of the position measurement

                                                    37
   device 110.      The image showing travel record information is, for example, an image in
   which the trajectory of the position measurement device 110 is displayed on a map.
             Next, the extraction unit 182 of the specific area extraction device 180 extracts a
   specific area on the basis of the travel record information (Step S1112).       Next, the
 5 extraction unit 182 transmits information about the extracted specific area to the position
   measurement device 110 (Step S1114).           Accordingly, processes of one routine of this
   flowchart end.
             Fig. 12 is a flowchart showing a flow of processes performed by the extraction
   unit 182.     A specific example of processes of this flowchart will be described with
10 reference to Fig. 13.     First, the extraction unit 182 analyzes a movement of a vehicle
   and derives an index (Step S1200).        The index is a value that increases when an
   absolute value or an amount of change of a speed, an acceleration, and an angular
   velocity increases during an observation period.        In addition, the index may be derived
   as a higher value when an angle formed by displacement vectors when a displacement is
15 extracted in sampling periods is larger.
             Next, the extraction unit 182 associates the derived index with a position of the
   vehicle at a time at which a movement of the vehicle used to derive the index is acquired
   (Step S1202).      Next, the extraction unit 182 extracts a position at which the index
   satisfies a predetermined reference as a specific area (Step S1204).        Accordingly, the
20 processes of this flowchart end.
              Fig. 13 is a diagram for describing a specific example of extraction of a specific
   area.    In the shown example, when a predetermined vehicle travels along a lane Li01, a
   trajectory of the vehicle acquired at predetermined sampling intervals is shown.        The
   extraction unit 182 analyzes a movement (a speed, an acceleration, and an angular
25 velocity) of the vehicle in each trajectory and derives an index.

                                                    38
             Then, the extraction unit 182 compares indexes with each other, and sets a
   position at which a movement of the vehicle satisfies a predetermined reference as a
   specific area.    The predetermined reference indicates that an element (at least one of a
   speed, an acceleration, and an angular velocity) included in the movement of the vehicle
 5 at a time t and an element (at least one of a speed, an acceleration, and an angular
   velocity) of the movement of the vehicle at a time t+1 have deviated from each other by a
   predetermined amount or more.        That is, when the vehicle suddenly accelerates,
   suddenly decelerates, or suddenly turns, it is determined that the movement of the vehicle
   satisfies the predetermined reference.
10           As described above, since a specific area is extracted on the basis of position
   information with higher accuracy, it is possible to provide information about a specific
   area with high accuracy.     Information about a specific area with high accuracy is
   information having a small error with a position of an actual area corresponding to the
   specific area.
15           Here, while a case in which the index derived by analyzing the movement of the
   vehicle is used has been described in the above example, an index derived from a change
   in position of the vehicle may be also used in addition thereto (or instead thereof).   The
   index derived from a change in position of the vehicle is, for example, an index derived
   from at least one element among an acceleration in a traveling direction, an acceleration
20 in a lateral direction and a degree of change in turning angle derived from trajectories of
   a plurality of vehicles.   In this case, it is determined whether each of two indexes
   derived on the basis of the movement of the vehicle and a change in position of the
   vehicle or a result obtained by statistically processing the two indexes satisfies the
   predetermined reference.

                                                  39
             In addition, the extraction unit 182 may extract an area in which lane change is
   smoothly performed as a specific area.      Fig. 14 is a diagram for describing extraction of
   a specific area in which lane change is smoothly performed.       In the shown example,
   trajectories of the vehicle acquired at predetermined sampling intervals when a
 5 predetermined vehicle changes lanes from a lane LiO to a lane L102 are shown.           Fig.
    14(A) shows an area in which lane change is not smoothly performed, and Fig. 14(B)
   shows a specific area in which lane change is smoothly performed.
             For example, the extraction unit 182 selects two consecutive trajectories close to
   a lane marker (a lane marker that divides the lanes L101 and L102) and generates a
10 vector based on the selected two trajectories.    Then, the extraction unit 182 derives an
   index indicating the smoothness of lane change on the basis of a magnitude of an angle
   formed by the vector and the lane marker, and the acceleration of the vehicle.      For
   example, the above-described index is derived to be smaller when the angle formed is
   smaller or the acceleration of the vehicle is smaller.
15           In the shown example, a vector V# generated by trajectories P# and P+1# in Fig.
    14(B) has a smaller angle formed and a smaller acceleration than a vector V generated by
   trajectories P and P+1 in Fig. 14(A).     Thus, an area in Fig. 14(B) is extracted as a
   specific area.
             Here, the extraction unit 182 may derive an index indicating the smoothness of
20 lane change for each section of the road, and may extract an area in which lane change
   can be smoothly performed by comparing indexes as a specific area.         For example, in a
   road connected to an intersection, an index corresponding to a section before a first
   distance (for example, several hundred m) from the intersection and an index
   corresponding to a section before a second distance (for example, 1 km) from the

                                                   40
   intersection may be compared, and an area having a higher index may be set as a specific
   area.
             In addition, in the above-described example, when a specific area is extracted,
   the weather and disaster information 142 may be used.         In this case, for example, the
 5 extraction unit 182 may extract a specific area in which traveling of a vehicle is
   recommended or not recommended on the basis of the position of the position
   measurement device 110 recognized on the basis of the position specified by the position
   measurement device 110, information indicating a movement of a vehicle, and the
   weather and disaster information 142 at a lane level of a road.       More specifically, the
10 extraction unit 182 changes the reference used to determine the specific area on the basis
   of the weather and disaster information 142.        When it is determined whether an area in
   which weather conditions (rain and snow, a decrease in temperature, and strong wind)
   influencing when a vehicle travels a road occur is a specific area, for example, the
   extraction unit 182 lowers the reference used to determine the specific area.        Thus,
15 when weather conditions influencing when a vehicle travels a road do not occur, even if
   the area is not extracted as a specific area, when weather conditions influencing when a
   vehicle travels a road occur, the area may be extracted as a specific area.       As a result, an
   area in which a vehicle is likely to slip such as a hydroplaning phenomenon, freezing of a
   road surface, black Eisbahn or the like is extracted as a specific area with higher accuracy.
20 Here, the weather conditions influencing when a vehicle travels a road are conditions
   obtained from results actually observed in advance and conditions obtained by an
   experimental method for each area.
    [Processes of guidance information generation device]
             Fig. 15 is a flowchart showing a flow of processes performed by the guidance
25 information generation device 190.       First, the route generating unit 192 waits until a

                                                  41
   route generation request is received from a user (Step S1300).      When the route
   generation request is acquired from the user, the route generating unit 192 derives a route
   of a designated section (Step S1302).     Next, the guidance information generating unit
    194 generates guidance information which is information allowing a user to recognize a
 5 specific area while traveling along the route generated by the route generating unit 192
   (Step S1304).
             Next, the guidance information generating unit 194 determines whether there is
   a specific area in the area in which the guidance information is providing guidance (Step
   S1306).     When there is a specific area in the area in which the guidance information is
10 providing guidance, the guidance information generating unit 194 generates specific
   guidance information in consideration of the specific area, and the process returns to Step
   S1306 (Step S1308).      The specific guidance information is information output to the
   user while traveling the specific area.
             When there is no specific area in the area in which the guidance information is
15 providing guidance (when specific guidance information is generated for all specific
   areas), the guidance information generating unit 194 determines whether all guidance
   information and specific guidance information are to be generated (Step S1310).      When
   none of the guidance information and specific guidance information is to be generated,
   the process returns to Step S1306.     When all guidance information and specific
20 guidance information are to be generated, the guidance information generation device
    190 transmits the generated route, guidance information, and specific guidance
   information to the vehicle that has transmitted the route generation request (Step S13 12).
   Accordingly, processes of one routine of this flowchart end.     According to the above
   processes, specific guidance information output when the vehicle approaches the specific
25 area is generated.

                                                  42
    [Processes of navigation device]
             Fig. 16 is a flowchart showing a flow of processes performed by the navigation
   device 198.    Here, this process may be performed by the control unit 124 of the position
   measurement device 110.       First, the navigation device 198 determines whether a
 5 guidance start instruction has been issued on the basis of information generated by the
   guidance information generation device 190 (Step S1400).        When the guidance start
   instruction has been issued, the navigation device 198 guides a vehicle on the basis of the
   generated route and guidance information (Step S1402).        For example, the route to the
   destination and the guidance information are displayed on the display unit provided in
10 the vehicle.
             Next, the navigation device 198 determines whether a vehicle approaches a
   specific area (Step S1404).     When the vehicle approaches a specific area, the navigation
   device 198 displays information about the specific area on the display unit (Step S1406).
   Next, the navigation device 198 guides the vehicle using specific guidance information
15 corresponding to the specific area in Step S 1406, and the process returns to Step S1404
   (Step S1408).     When the vehicle approaches a specific area, the navigation device 198
   determines whether the vehicle has arrived at the destination (Step S 1410).     When the
   vehicle has arrived at the destination, processes of one routine of this flowchart end.
   According to the above processes, since specific guidance information is output when the
20 vehicle approaches the specific area, the user can recognize the presence of the specific
   area and control the vehicle.
             Here, while the navigation device 198 outputs the guidance information and the
   specific guidance information to the user in the above example, the control unit 124 of
   the position measurement device 110 may display the guidance information and the

                                                 43
   specific guidance information on the display unit 128 or output them as sound from a
   speaker.
            Fig. 17 is a diagram showing an example of an image IM100 displayed on a
   display unit.   As shown in Fig. 17, a specific area AR101 is assumed to be in the lane
 5 L101.    For example, when a vehicle MI travels along the lane Li01, if the vehicle
   arrives at a position within a predetermined distance from the specific area AR101, the
   navigation device 198 displays, for example, specific guidance information of "Specific
   area is 00 meters ahead.     Please, change lanes." and a position of the specific area
   AR101 on a map in an overlapping manner, and notifies of specific guidance information
10 as sound using a speaker.     Accordingly, an occupant of the vehicle can avoid traveling
   the specific area.
            In addition, in the example shown in Fig. 17, when the vehicle M1 travels along
   a lane L102 that is different from the lane in which a specific area is located, if the
   vehicle arrives at a position within a predetermined distance from the specific area
15 AR101, the navigation device 198 displays, for example, specific guidance information
   of "Specific area is 00 meters ahead.     Please do not change lanes." and a position of the
   specific area AR101 on a map in an overlapping manner, and may notify of specific
   guidance information as sound using a speaker.      Accordingly, an occupant of the
   vehicle can avoid traveling the specific area.
20          Fig. 18 is a diagram showing an example of an image IM101 displayed on a
   display unit.   As shown in Fig. 18, a specific area AR102 and a specific area AR103 are
   assumed to be in the lane LiO.      The specific area AR102 is an area in which lane
   change can be smoothly performed and the specific area AR103 is an area in which lane
   change cannot be smoothly performed.

                                                  44
             For example, when the vehicle M1 travels along the lane LIO toward a
   destination G, if the vehicle arrives at a position within a predetermined distance from
   the specific area AR102, the navigation device 198 displays, for example, specific
   guidance information of "The specific area AR102 is an area in which you can smoothly
 5 change lanes.    Changing lanes is recommended." and a position of the specific area
   AR102 on a map on the display unit in an overlapping manner, and notifies of the
   specific guidance information as sound using a speaker.       In addition, in this case, the
   navigation device 198 displays specific guidance information of "The specific area
   AR103 is an area in which you are not able to smoothly change lanes.         Changing lanes
10 is not recommended." on the display unit and notifies of that as sound using a speaker.
   Accordingly, an occupant of the vehicle can change lanes in the area in which lane
   change can be smoothly performed.
             According to the embodiment described above, when the position identifying
   unit 118 configured to identify position information of the device itself on the basis of
15 information extracted from radio waves received by a reception unit (the GPS antenna
    112, the Quasi-Zenith antenna 114) configured to receive radio waves in which
   information has been superimposed from GPS satellites and Quasi-Zenith Satellites
   constituting the Quasi-Zenith Satellite System in an area in which the device is
   positioned, the collection unit 120 configured to acquire information indicating a
20 movement of a vehicle in which the position identifying unit 118 is mounted or included,
   and the extraction unit 182 configured to extract a specific area in which traveling of a
   vehicle is recommended or not recommended on the basis of the position specified by the
   position identifying unit 118 and information indicating a movement of a vehicle
   acquired by the collection unit 120 at a lane level of a road are included, it is possible to
25 provide more useful information.

                                                 45
             A risk estimation system and a risk estimation method as a third embodiment of
   an information processing system and an information processing method according to the
   present invention will be described below with reference to the drawings.
             Fig. 19 is a diagram showing a functional configuration of a risk estimation
 5 system 201.      The risk estimation system 201 includes, for example, a vehicle in which
   an in-vehicle system 210 is mounted, a record generation device 240, a weather
   information management device 250, a measurement device 254, an information
   provision device 256, a risk calculation device 260, a traffic information processing
   device 270, an attention area extraction device 280, and a guidance information
10 generation device 290.      These devices communicate with each other via a network NW
   such as a local area network (LAN), a wide area network (WAN), a mobile phone
   network, a Wi-Fi network, or the Internet.     Here, the risk estimation system 201 may
   include a plurality of vehicles in which the in-vehicle system 210 is mounted.
             Fig. 20 is a functional configuration diagram of the in-vehicle system 210.   The
15 in-vehicle system 210 is, for example, a device mounted in a 2-wheeled or 4-wheeled
   vehicle.    The in-vehicle system 210 includes, for example, a global positioning system
   (GPS) antenna 212, a Quasi-Zenith antenna 214, various sensors 216, a radar device 218,
   a camera 220, an image analyzing unit 222, a position measurement unit 224, a collection
   unit 226, a communication unit 228, a control unit 230, a display unit 232, and map
20 information 234.      The various sensors 216 are examples of a "device configured to
   acquire a change in state of a vehicle."
             Here, the in-vehicle system 210 may be a device constituting a part of a mobile
   terminal.    In this case, when an occupant of a vehicle possesses a mobile terminal in
   which the in-vehicle system 210 is mounted or brings it into the vehicle, position
25 information corresponding to position information of the vehicle is transmitted to the

                                                  46
   record generation device 240.      In addition, in this case, the various sensors 216, the
   radar device 218, and the camera 220 are omitted in the mobile terminal but are provided
   in the vehicle.    Therefore, the communication unit 228 of the mobile terminal acquires
   information obtained by various sensors, the radar device 218, and the camera 220
 5 provided in the vehicle through communication with a communication unit provided in
   the vehicle or the like, and transmits the acquired information to the record generation
   device 240.     Here, the devices included in the mobile terminal may be some of the
   various sensors 216.
              The image analyzing unit 222 and the control unit 230 may be realized when a
10 processor such as a central processing unit (CPU) executes a program stored in a storage
   unit.    In addition, all or some of these functional units may be realized by hardware such
   as a large scale integration (LSI) circuit, an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC),
   and a field-programmable gate array (FPGA), and a circuit configuration for realizing
   functions of these functional units may be included.       In addition, these functional units
15 may be realized in cooperation with software and hardware.          The map information 234
   is stored in, for example, a nonvolatile storage medium such as a flash memory and a
   hard disk drive (HDD).
              The GPS antenna 212 receives radio waves in which information (positioning
   information) has been superimposed from a plurality of GPS satellites.         Here, the GPS
20 antenna 212 is not limited to those for GPS satellites, and, for example, radio waves may
   be received from satellites constituting any global positioning system (global navigation
   satellite system (GNSS)) such as GLONASS or Galileo.
              The Quasi-Zenith antenna 214 receives radio waves in which information
   (positioning information and correction information to be described below) has been
25 superimposed from at least one Quasi-Zenith Satellite among a plurality of Quasi-Zenith

                                                 47
   Satellites constituting the Quasi-Zenith Satellite System.     The Quasi-Zenith Satellite
   System is a satellite system in which a plurality of satellites having orbits that pass near
   the zenith (directly above) of a certain area (for example, Japan) are combined.      The
   Quasi-Zenith antenna 214 is highly likely to receive radio waves that are not influenced
 5 by multipath due to a high rise building or the like from the Quasi-Zenith Satellites.
   Here, the GPS antenna 212 and the Quasi-Zenith antenna 214 may be integrated.
             The various sensors 216 include, for example, an acceleration sensor, a direction
   sensor, a vehicle speed sensor, and a steering angle sensor.     The acceleration sensor is,
   for example, a three-axis acceleration sensor.     The acceleration sensor detects an
10 acceleration of a vehicle and outputs the detection result to the collection unit 226.    The
   direction sensor measures magnetism, detects an orientation of a vehicle with respect to
   the earth and outputs the detection result to the collection unit 226.    The vehicle speed
   sensor includes, for example, a wheel speed sensor attached to wheels and a controller
   configured to combine these detection results.      The vehicle speed sensor detects a speed
15 of a vehicle and outputs the detection result to the collection unit 226.   The steering
   angle sensor detects a steering angle of a steering wheel and outputs the detection result
   to the collection unit 226.
             In addition, the various sensors 216 include a brake pressure sensor and a
   detection unit configured to detect an operation state of an anti-lock braking system
20 (ABS) device.      When it is determined that brake control is being performed based on
   the detection result of the brake pressure sensor, if a speed of the vehicle estimated based
   on the detection result of a rotational speed sensor configured to detect an axle rotational
   speed and a speed of the vehicle detected by the vehicle speed sensor do not match, the
   ABS device determines that tires are slipping and control is performed to prevent locking
25 of the wheels.

                                                 48
             The radar device 218 emits radio waves such as millimeter waves and ultrasonic
   waves to the surroundings of a subject vehicle, detects radio wave (reflected waves)
   reflected by an object, analyzes a distribution of reception levels of the detected radio
   waves, and detects at least a position (a distance and a direction) of the object.    The
 5 radar device 218 outputs a processing procedure or a processing result such as
   information indicating an object detection accuracy to the collection unit 226.      One or a
   plurality of radar devices 218 are attached to certain portions of the vehicle.    The radar
   device 218 may detect a position and a speed of an object by a frequency modulated
   continuous wave (FM-CW) method.
10           In addition, the in-vehicle system 210 may include a finder.     The finder uses a
   light detection and ranging or laser imaging detection and ranging (LIDAR) method in
   which scattered light with respect to emitted light is measured and a distance to a target is
   detected.
             The camera 220 is attached to, for example, an upper portion of a front
15 windshield or a rear side of a room mirror.     The camera 220 is, for example, a camera
   that uses a solid state imaging device such as a charge coupled device (CCD) or a
   complementary metal oxide semiconductor (CMOS).           For example, the camera 220
   repeatedly captures an image in front of the vehicle at predetermined periods and outputs
   the captured image data to the image analyzing unit 222.
20           For example, the image analyzing unit 222 detects weather conditions in the
   surroundings of the vehicle on the basis of the image captured by the camera 220.         The
   image analyzing unit 222 outputs information indicating an image recognition accuracy
   acquired from the image analysis result to the collection unit 226.     In addition, the
   image analyzing unit 222 may detect raindrops or snow in the surroundings or a front
25 window of the vehicle, and estimate an amount of rainfall on the basis of the detection

                                                  49
   results and the like.   The image analyzing unit 222 outputs the processing result to the
   collection unit 226.    Here, functions of the image analyzing unit 222 may be included in
   the weather information management device 250.
             The position measurement unit 224 identifies the position of the vehicle by
 5 performing a positioning operation of identifying a position of the device itself according
   to, for example, the principle of triangulation, at predetermined sampling intervals, on the
   basis of radio waves in which information received by the GPS antenna 212 has been
   superimposed and radio waves in which information received by the Quasi-Zenith
   antenna 214 has been superimposed.
10           The positioning information includes satellite orbit information (ephemeris and
   almanac) about a corresponding satellite, a correction value of a clock, and a correction
   coefficient of an ionospheric layer.     The correction information is information derived
   by a reference device serving as an electronic reference point provided at a
   predetermined position in advance.       The correction information is previously
15 transmitted to the Quasi-Zenith Satellite from a facility on the ground side.     Here, on the
   basis of the position of the device itself and the position of the GPS satellite or the
   Quasi-Zenith Satellite (hereinafter referred to as a subject satellite) which are acquired in
   advance, the reference device derives a geometric distance from the device itself to the
   subject satellite.  In addition, the reference device derives a pseudo distance between the
20 device itself and the subject satellite on the basis of a propagation time of radio waves
   acquired from the subject satellite.    The reference device acquires a difference between
   the pseudo distance and the geometric distance as an error.      Then, the reference device
   transmits error information to a ground station device.      The ground station device
   derives parameters of a function of deriving an error of a pseudo distance for each
25 coordinate point on the basis of the error acquired from a plurality of reference devices,

                                                   50
   and transmits the derived parameters of the function to the Quasi-Zenith Satellite as
   correction information.
             Fig. 21 is a conceptual diagram of a processing result of the position
   measurement unit 224.       Fig. 21(A) shows trajectories of positions identified using
 5 information transmitted from GPS satellites.        Fig. 21(B) shows trajectories of positions
   identified using information transmitted from GPS satellites and Quasi-Zenith Satellites.
   In Fig. 21 (A), according to positioning errors of identified positions, position information
   is plotted on the lane L201, a position outside the lane L201, and a lane L202.         In Fig.
   21 (B), since the positioning error at the identified position is lower than in the example in
10 Fig. 21(A), position information is plotted on an area excluding an area AR200 of the
   lane L201 along which the vehicle has actually traveled.        As a result, the position
   measurement unit 224 of the embodiment can identify a position at which the vehicle in
   which the in-vehicle system 210 is mounted has actually traveled more accurately at a
   lane level of a road.    Here, in the drawing, the area AR200 is an example of an attention
15 area extracted by an extraction unit 282 of the attention area extraction device 280 to be
   described below.
             Here, while a case in which a position is identified using information transmitted
   from GPS satellites and Quasi-Zenith Satellites has been described in the present
   embodiment, information transmitted from Quasi-Zenith Satellites may be omitted and
20 only information transmitted from GPS satellites may be used.
             In addition, the position measurement unit 224 may derive a change in position
   of the vehicle on the basis of the detection results of the various sensors 216 and the like
   mounted in the vehicle.      In this case, the position measurement unit 224 corrects the
   position of the vehicle by performing a positioning operation on the basis of the derived
25 change in position.

                                                  51
             The collection unit 226 collects position information identified by the position
   measurement unit 224, the detection results of the various sensors 216, the processing
   result of the radar device 218, and the analysis result of the image analyzing unit 222,
   and when a predetermined amount of information is collected, transmits the collected
 5 information to the record generation device 240 using the communication unit 228.
             The control unit 230 generates information to be presented to a user on the basis
   of information generated by the risk calculation device 260 and displays the generated
   information on the display unit 232.      The display unit 232 includes, for example, a
   display device such as a liquid crystal display (LCD) or an organic electroluminescence
10 (EL) display.
             The map information 234 is, for example, information in which a road shape is
   expressed by a link indicating a road and a node connected by links.      The map
   information 234 may include a road curvature, point of interest (POI) information, and
   the like.   In addition, the map information 234 includes, for example, road information
15 such as information about the center of a lane or information about a boundary of a lane.
   The road information includes information indicating a type of a road such as a highway,
   a toll road, a national road, or a prefectural road and information about the number of
   lanes on the road, the width of each lane, the slope of the road, the position (coordinates
   including longitude and latitude) of the road, the curvature of the curve of the lane, a
20 position at which lanes converge and a position of a branch point, and the like.    Map
   information 229 may be updated at any time according to information acquired by the
   communication unit 228.
             The record generation device 240 includes, for example, map information 242, a
   map matching unit 244, and a travel record generating unit 236.       The map information
25 242 includes the same information as the map information 234.

                                                 52
             The map matching unit 244 performs map matching processing on the
   information acquired from the in-vehicle system 210.      The map matching unit 244
   performs a process in which a link at which the in-vehicle system 210 is located among
   elements (for example, links) included in the map information 242 is determined on the
 5 basis of the acquired position information and the map information 242.       According to
   the map matching process, a link and a lane where the in-vehicle system 210 is located
   and which are included in the map information 242 are determined.
             A travel record generating unit 246 acquires the processing result of the map
   matching unit 244 and generates travel record information on the basis of the acquired
10 information.     The travel record information is information indicating an actual travel
   record of the vehicle in which the in-vehicle system 210 is mounted.      The travel record
   information includes, for example, information about positions through which the vehicle
   has actually traveled, and information about a road link and a road lane.    The travel
   record information is transmitted to the vehicle or the attention area extraction device
15 280.
             The weather information management device 250 includes, for example,
   weather and disaster information 252.     In the weather and disaster information 252,
   information about weather associated with each area or information about disasters is
   stored.
20           In the weather and disaster information 252, for example, the measurement
   results (for example, rainfall) of the measurement device 254 acquired from the
   measurement device 254 and weather and disaster information (for example, heavy rain
   information) acquired from the information provision device 256 are stored.
             The measurement device 254 is, for example, a weather observation device
25 provided at a predetermined position.     The measurement device 254 observes, for

                                                 53
   example, an amount of precipitation, a wind direction, a wind speed, a temperature, and
   the duration of sunshine.
             The information provision device 256 is, for example, a server device managed
   by national or local organizations or the like and provides weather information or disaster
 5 information to the weather information management device 250.         The disaster
   information is, for example, information about natural disasters such as heavy rain, heavy
   snow, and earthquakes.
             The risk calculation device 260 includes, for example, a correlation learning unit
   262, a risk calculating unit 264, and a previously calculated risk information 266.    The
10 correlation learning unit 262 derives a correlation between a risk of the occurrence of a
   predetermined event in the attention area, at least one piece of information among
   information acquired by devices mounted or included in the vehicle present in the
   surroundings of the attention area, and weather information acquired by the weather
   information management device 250.        The risk calculating unit 264 estimates a risk of
15 the occurrence of a predetermined event in the attention area on the basis of the
   correlation derived by the correlation learning unit 262 at a lane level of a road.   The
   predetermined event is an event that is not favorable for running of the vehicle and is, for
   example, road flooding or freezing of a road surface.     The previously calculated risk
   information 266 is information about a previous risk calculated by the risk calculating
20 unit 264.
             The traffic information processing device 270 includes, for example, a
   4-wheeled traffic information analyzing unit 272, a 2-wheeled traffic information
   analyzing unit 274, and an integrated analyzing unit 276.     The 4-wheeled traffic
   information analyzing unit 272 acquires 4-wheeled vehicle information acquired by the
25 record generation device 240 and analyzes the acquired 4-wheeled vehicle information.

                                                   54
   The 2-wheeled traffic information analyzing unit 274 acquires 2-wheeled vehicle
   information acquired by the record generation device 240 and analyzes the acquired
   2-wheeled vehicle information.       The integrated analyzing unit 276 generates traffic
   information on the basis of the acquired 4-wheeled vehicle and 2-wheeled vehicle
 5 information.     The traffic information is, for example, information indicating the degree
   of congestion in a predetermined section of a road.
             The attention area extraction device 280 includes, for example, the extraction
   unit 282, and map information 284.       In addition, the extraction unit 282 extracts the area
   AR200 (refer to Fig. 21) in which no position information is plotted as an attention area
10 on the basis of the trajectory of the position identified by the position measurement unit
   224.    The attention area is an area in which no vehicles are traveling along a road and
   which is estimated to have some problems and is an area that should be noted while the
   vehicle travels.
             In addition, the extraction unit 282 acquires information indicating a movement
15 of a vehicle in which the in-vehicle system 210 is mounted or included and estimates an
   attention area on the basis of the position of the in-vehicle system 210 identified by the
   in-vehicle system 210 and information indicating a movement of a vehicle collected by
   the collection unit 226 of the in-vehicle system 210 at a lane level of a road.     This
   process will be described below with reference to Fig. 23 and Fig. 24.
20           The guidance information generation device 290 includes, for example, a route
   generating unit 292 and a guidance information generating unit 294.        The route
   generating unit 292 generates a route to the destination in response to a request from a
   user.   The guidance information generating unit 294 generates guidance information
   which is information output to the user while traveling along the route generated by the
25 route generating unit 292 and which is used for guidance so that the vehicle can smoothly

                                                   55
   travel along the generated route.       The guidance information generating unit 294
   generates information allowing the user to recognize the attention area extracted by the
   extraction unit 282 at a lane level of a road.    The route to the destination and the
   information are transmitted to the vehicle that has transmitted the request.     A navigation
 5 device 298 mounted in the vehicle that has transmitted the request displays the route to
   the destination and the information as an image on a display unit according to a traveling
   position and a traveling state of the vehicle or outputs them as sound from a speaker.
   Here, information acquired by devices included in the risk estimation system 201,
   processing procedures of the devices, and processing results may be transmitted to the
10 in-vehicle system 210, a manager terminal 2100 that manages the system, and a mobile
   terminal 2110.
    [Process of extracting attention area]
             Fig. 22 is a sequence diagram showing processes performed when an attention
   area is extracted.    First, the position measurement unit 224 of the in-vehicle system 210
15 acquires position information of the device itself (Step S2100).      Next, the collection unit
   226 of the in-vehicle system 210 waits until a predetermined amount of position
   information in a storage device (not shown) of the device itself, the detection results of
   the various sensors 216, information acquired from the radar device 218, and information
   acquired from the image analyzing unit 222 (hereinafter these pieces of information will
20 be referred to as "vehicle information") accumulates (Step S2102).        Next, the collection
   unit 226 of the in-vehicle system 210 transmits the accumulated vehicle information to
   the record generation device 240 using the communication unit 228 (Step S2104).
             Next, the map matching unit 244 of the record generation device 240 performs a
   map matching process on the basis of vehicle information (Step S2106).         Next, the
25 travel record generating unit 246 of the record generation device 240 generates travel

                                                    56
   record information for each road (Step S2108).         Next, the record generation device 240
   transmits the generated travel record information and vehicle information to the attention
   area extraction device 280 (Step S2110).        The travel record information is transmitted to,
   for example, the in-vehicle system 210 and may be displayed as an image showing travel
 5 record information on the display unit 232 of the in-vehicle system 210.        The image
   showing travel record information is, for example, an image in which the trajectory of the
   in-vehicle system 210 is displayed on a map.
            Next, the extraction unit 282 of the attention area extraction device 280 extracts
   an attention area on the basis of the travel record information (Step S2112).       Next, the
10 extraction unit 282 transmits information about the extracted attention area to the
   in-vehicle system 210 (Step S2114).         Accordingly, processes of one routine of this
   flowchart end.
             Fig. 23 is a flowchart showing a flow of processes performed by the extraction
   unit 282.    A specific example of processes of this flowchart will be described with
15 reference to Fig. 24.     First, the extraction unit 282 analyzes vehicle information on the
   basis of vehicle information (Step S2200).        Next, the extraction unit 282 associates the
   analysis result with a position of the vehicle at a time at which vehicle information is
   acquired (Step S2202).       Next, the extraction unit 282 extracts a position at which the
   analysis result satisfies a predetermined reference as an attention area (Step S2204).
20 Accordingly, the processes of this flowchart end.
             Fig. 24 is a diagram for describing a specific example of extraction of an
   attention area.   In the shown example, when a predetermined vehicle travels along a
   lane L201, a trajectory of the vehicle acquired at predetermined sampling intervals is
   shown.     The extraction unit 282 analyzes vehicle information (a speed, an acceleration,
25 an angular velocity, an operation state of an ABS device, an object detection accuracy of

                                                    57
   the radar device 218, and an image recognition accuracy) in each trajectory and derives
   an index obtained by integrating elements or predetermined elements.          The index is a
   value that is higher when an absolute value or an amount of change of a speed, an
   acceleration, and an angular velocity increases during an observation period.         In
 5 addition, the index is a value that is higher when the operation state of the ABS device is
   in an on state.    In addition, the index is a value that is higher when the degree of
   decrease in detection accuracy of the radar device 218 increases or image recognition
   accuracy increases.      Here, the index may be a value that is higher when an angle formed
   by displacement vectors when displacement is extracted in sampling periods is larger.
10           Then, the extraction unit 282 compares indexes with each other, and sets a
   position at which a movement of the vehicle satisfies a predetermined reference as an
   attention area.    The predetermined reference indicates that an element (at least one of a
   speed, an acceleration, an angular velocity, an operation state of an ABS device, an
   object detection accuracy of the radar device 218, and an image recognition accuracy)
15 included in the movement of the vehicle at a time t and an element (at least one of a
   speed, an acceleration, an angular velocity, an operation state of an ABS device, an
   object detection accuracy of the radar device 218, and an image recognition accuracy) of
   the movement of the vehicle at a time t+1 have deviated from each other by a
   predetermined amount or more.          In addition, when the operation state of the ABS device
20 at the time t is in an off state but the operation state of the ABS device at the time t+1 is
   in an on state, it is determined that the predetermined reference is satisfied.     In this
   manner, when the vehicle suddenly accelerates, suddenly decelerates, or suddenly turns,
   or when the radar detection accuracy or the image recognition accuracy decreases by a
   predetermined degree or more, it is determined that the analysis result satisfies the
25 predetermined reference.

                                                      58
             As described above, since an attention area is extracted on the basis of position
   information with higher accuracy, it is possible to provide information on an attention
   area with high accuracy.       Information about the attention area with high accuracy is
   information having a small error with a position of an actual area corresponding to the
 5 attention area.
             Here, while a case in which the index derived by analyzing the movement of the
   vehicle is used has been described in the above example, an index derived from a change
   in position of the vehicle may be also used in addition thereto (or instead thereof).        The
   index derived from a change in position of the vehicle is, for example, an index derived
10 from at least one element among an acceleration in a traveling direction, an acceleration
   in a lateral direction and a degree of change in turning angle derived from trajectories of
   a plurality of vehicles.     In this case, it is determined whether each of two indexes
   derived on the basis of the movement of the vehicle and a change in position of the
   vehicle or a result obtained by statistically processing two indexes satisfies the
15 predetermined reference.
   [Processes performed by correlation learning unit]
             Fig. 25 is a flowchart showing a flow of processes performed by the correlation
   learning unit 262.     First, the correlation learning unit 262 acquires information about the
   attention area from the attention area extraction device 280 (Step S2200).          Next, the
20 correlation learning unit 262 acquires weather information from the weather information
   management device 250 (Step S2202).             Next, the correlation learning unit 262 acquires
   information indicating a state of a vehicle (Step S2204).         Next, the correlation learning
   unit 262 learns a correlation between the position of the attention area, weather
   information, vehicle information, and an event in the attention area and derives functions
25 for calculating a risk of the occurrence of a predetermined event, maps and the like in a

                                                   59
   predetermined attention area (Step S2206).        Here, the event in the attention area is set in
   advance on the basis of the actually observed result.      In addition, the learning result of
   the correlation learning unit 262 is stored in a storage device of the risk calculation
   device 260.
 5           Fig. 26 is a diagram showing an example of an information table 263 used when
   the correlation learning unit 262 learns a correlation.     The information table 263 is, for
   example, information in which vehicle information, weather information, and an event
   are associated with the attention area.     For example, when flooding occurs in an
   attention area "001", the correlation learning unit 262 learns vehicle information obtained
10 by the vehicle that travels the attention area and weather information.       Then, the
   correlation learning unit 262 derives a function of deriving a risk of the occurrence of
   flooding in the attention area "001" on the basis of vehicle information and weather
   information (details will be described below).      In this manner, the correlation learning
   unit 262 derives conditions in which a predetermined event occurs in the attention area.
15  [Processes performed by risk calculating unit]
             Fig. 27 is a flowchart showing a flow of processes performed by the risk
   calculating unit 264.
             First, the risk calculating unit 264 acquires weather information from the
   weather information management device 250 (Step S2300).            Next, the risk calculating
20 unit 264 acquires information about the attention area from the attention area extraction
   device 280 (Step S2302).       Next, the risk calculating unit 264 determines whether there
   is an attention area in an area to be processed (Step S2304).      When there is no attention
   area, the process advances to Step S2312.       When there is an attention area, the risk
   calculating unit 264 determines whether there is an attention area serving as a target at
25 the same position in the past (Step S2306).      When there is no attention area serving as a

                                                   60
   target at the same position, the risk calculating unit 264 calculates a risk using a
   predetermined method (Step S2312).          The predetermined method is a method of
   calculating a risk using a function having predetermined elements included in weather
   information as parameters.
 5           When there is an attention area serving as a target at the same position, the risk
   calculating unit 264 acquires vehicle information from the vehicle in the surroundings of
   the attention area serving as a target (Step S2308).       Next, the risk calculating unit 264
   sets parameters of a function derived by the correlation learning unit 262 described above
   on the basis of the acquired vehicle information and weather information (Step S2310),
10 and calculates a risk on the basis of the set parameters and function (Step S2312).
             Here, for example, a case in which flooding has occurred in the past in an
   attention area serving as a target will be described.      The risk calculating unit 264
   calculates a risk in the attention area on the basis of, for example, the following Equation
   (1).   "P(t)" is a probability (risk) of flooding at a time t and "d" is a drainage capacity
15 coefficient in the preset attention area.    "FpIcp" is a function of an amount of
   precipitation (p)at the time t and a cumulative amount of precipitation (cp) up to the time t
   from when a predetermined amount of precipitation or more has been generated.               In
   addition, "Ir" is a coefficient corresponding to the degree of decrease in recognition
   accuracy of an image captured by the camera 220 of the vehicle present in the vicinity of
20 the attention area with respect to a preset first reference value.      "Rr" is a coefficient
   corresponding to the degree of decrease in object detection accuracy of the radar device
   218 of the vehicle present in the vicinity of the attention area with respect to a preset
   second reference value.      Here, the decrease in image recognition accuracy is caused by,
   for example, halation caused by reflection due to rain accumulated on the road.           In
25 addition, the decrease in detection accuracy of the object of the radar device 218 is

                                                  61
   caused by, for example, an influence of raindrops in the surroundings of the vehicle.
   Here, "Ir" or "Rr" may be omitted.
                                 (1)
   P(t)=dFpIcp(t)x{f1-(IrxRr)} ...
            Next, the risk calculating unit 264 stores the calculated risk in the previously
 5 calculated risk information 266 (Step S2314), and transmits information indicating the
   calculated risk to the vehicle and the like (Step S2316).     Accordingly, the processes of
   this flowchart end.
             Fig. 28 is a conceptual diagram of processes performed by the risk estimation
   system 201 of the present embodiment.
10           The attention area extraction device 280 extracts an attention area AR200 on the
   basis of the trajectory of the position identified by the in-vehicle system 210 or a
   movement of the vehicle at the identified position.      The risk calculating unit 264 of the
   risk calculation device 260 acquires information of the attention area AR200, vehicle
   information (for example, an image recognition accuracy or an object detection accuracy
15 of the radar device 218) present in the vicinity of the attention area AR200, and weather
   information (for example, an amount of rainfall and a cumulative amount of rainfall) in
   the vicinity of the attention area AR200.     Then, the risk calculating unit 264 applies the
   acquired information to a function derived from a correlation between vehicle
   information when an event occurred in the past in the attention area obtained in advance
20 and weather information and derives a risk of the occurrence of an event.
            According to the above processes, it is possible to derive a risk regarding an
   influence of weather information on the road, and an occupant of the vehicle or a road
   manager can be notified of the derived result.
             Here, while an example in which a risk of the occurrence of flooding is derived
25 has been described in the above example, instead of (or in addition to) flooding, a risk of

                                                   62
   the occurrence of another event may be derived on the basis of the above idea.          Other
   risks are, for example, a risk of a road surface freezing, a risk of a road surface becoming
   capable of causing hydroplaning, or a risk of a road surface being in a black Eisbahn state
   (a black ice forming on a road surface).
 5           In addition, while a case in which a risk of the occurrence of an event is derived
   has been exemplified in the above example, instead of (or in addition to) this event, a
   possibility of the generated event being eliminated may be derived on the basis of the
   above idea.
             Fig. 29 is a diagram showing an example of an image IM200 displayed on the
10 display unit of the navigation device 298.      Here, the image IM200 may be displayed on
   the display unit 232, a display unit of the manager terminal 2100 or a display unit of the
   mobile terminal 2110.      As shown in Fig. 29, there is an attention area AR201 that may
   be flooded in the lane L202.      For example, when the vehicle travels along the lane L202,
   if the vehicle arrives at a position within a predetermined distance from the attention area
15 AR201, the navigation device 298 displays, for example, information of "The attention
   area AR201 may be flooded.         Please change lanes." and the position of the attention
   area AR201 on the map on the display unit in an overlapping manner, and notifies of the
   above information as sound.       Accordingly, an occupant of the vehicle can control the
   vehicle to avoid the attention area AR201.
20           Here, while an example in which a risk of the occurrence of an event in the
   attention area is displayed on the display unit has been described in the above example,
   information about the risk of the occurrence of an event in the attention area may be used
   when automatic driving is performed.        In this case, for example, the vehicle that
   performs automatic driving controls the vehicle such that the attention area is avoided on
25 the basis of the risk of the occurrence of an event in the attention area, and the vehicle

                                                  63
   performs control such that the vehicle passes through the area more safely when it passes
   through the vicinity of the attention area.
             According to the embodiment described above, when the position measurement
   unit 224 configured to identify position information of the device itself on the basis of
 5 information extracted from radio waves received by a reception unit (the GPS antenna
   212 and the Quasi-Zenith antenna 214) configured to receive radio waves in which
   information has been superimposed from GPS satellites and Quasi-Zenith Satellites
   constituting the Quasi-Zenith Satellite System in an area in which the device is
   positioned, the extraction unit 282 configured to extract an attention area that should be
10 noted during travel on the basis of the position identified by the position measurement
   unit 224 at a lane level of a road, and the risk calculating unit 264 configured to estimate
   a risk of the occurrence of a predetermined event in the attention area on the basis of
   information acquired by devices mounted or included in the vehicle present in the
   surroundings of the attention area, and weather information acquired by the weather
15 observation device at a lane level of a road are included, it is possible to provide more
   useful information.
             While forms for implementing the present invention have been described above
   with reference to embodiments, the present invention is not limited to the embodiments
   at all, and various modifications and substitutions can be made without departing from
20 the spirit and scope of the present invention.

                                                  64
   What is claimed is:
    1. An information processing system comprising:
             a position measurement device configured to receive radio waves in which
 5 information has been superimposed from a plurality of satellites constituting a global
   positioning system and Quasi-Zenith Satellites constituting the Quasi-Zenith Satellite
   System, and identify its own position on the basis of information extracted from the
   received radio waves; and
             an estimation unit configured to estimate an attention area that should be noted
10 during travel on the basis of a trajectory of the position measurement device recognized
   on the basis of a position identified by the position measurement device at a lane level of
   a road.
   2.   The information processing system according to claim 1, further comprising
15           a guidance information generating unit configured to generate guidance
   information for avoiding the attention area estimated by the estimation unit at a lane level
   of a road.
   3.   The information processing system according to claim 1 or 2, further comprising
20           a display control unit configured to generate an image to be displayed on a
   display unit on the basis of the attention area estimated by the estimation unit and display
   the generated image on the display unit.
   4.   The information processing system according to claim 3,

                                                  65
            wherein the display control unit displays the generated image on a display unit
   provided in a vehicle or a display unit of a mobile terminal.
   5. The information processing system according to claim 3 or 4,
 5           wherein the display control unit displays an image in which the attention area
   estimated by the estimation unit is displayed on a map on the display unit.
   6.   The information processing system according to any one of claims 1 to 5, further
   comprising
10           an application unit configured to apply the attention area estimated by the
   estimation unit to map information.
   7.   An information processing method causing a computer to perform:
             receiving radio waves in which information has been superimposed from a
15 plurality of satellites constituting a global positioning system and Quasi-Zenith Satellites
   constituting the Quasi-Zenith Satellite System;
             identifying a position of a position measurement device on the basis of
   information extracted from the received radio waves; and
             estimating an attention area that should be noted during travel on the basis of a
20 trajectory of the position measurement device recognized on the basis of the identified
   position at a lane level of a road.
   8.   The information processing system according to claim 1, further comprising:
             an acquisition unit configured to acquire information indicating a movement of a
25 vehicle in which the position measurement device is mounted or included; and

                                                 66
             an extraction unit configured to extract a specific area in which traveling of the
   vehicle is recommended or not recommended on the basis of the position identified by
   the position measurement device and the information indicating a movement of the
   vehicle acquired by the acquisition unit at a lane level of a road.
 5
   9.   The information processing system according to claim 8,
            wherein the extraction unit extracts an area in which an acceleration and a
   deceleration of the vehicle are controlled so as to be a predetermined degree or higher as
   a specific area in which traveling of the vehicle is not recommended.
10
    10.  The information processing system according to claim 8 or 9,
            wherein the extraction unit extracts an area in which a turning angle of the
   vehicle is controlled so as to be a predetermined degree or higher as a specific area in
   which traveling of the vehicle is not recommended.
15
    11.  The information processing system according to any one of claims 8 to 10,
            wherein the extraction unit extracts an area in which lane change is smoothly
   performed as a specific area in which traveling of the vehicle is recommended.
20  12.  The information processing system according to claim 11,
            wherein the extraction unit extracts the specific area on the basis of a degree of
   change in a plurality of pieces of position information specified by the position
   measurement device and a degree of change in the movement of the vehicle acquired by
   the acquisition unit.
25

                                                 67
    13.  The information processing system according to any one of claims 8 to 12, further
   comprising
            an information generating unit configured to generate information to be output
   to an output unit configured to output information on the basis of the specific area
 5 extracted by the extraction unit.
    14.  The information processing system according to claim 13,
            wherein the information generating unit generates an image to be displayed on a
   display unit on the basis of specific information generated by the extraction unit and
10 displays the generated image on the display unit.
    15.  The information processing system according to claim 14,
            wherein the information generating unit displays the generated image on a
   display unit provided on the vehicle or a display unit of a mobile terminal.
15
    16.  The information processing system according to claim 15,
            wherein the information generating unit displays an image in which the specific
   area extracted by the extraction unit is displayed on a map on the display unit.
20  17.  The information processing system according to any one of claims 8 to 16, further
   comprising
            an application unit configured to apply the specific area extracted by the
   extraction unit to map information.
25  18.  The information processing method according to claim 7, further including:

                                                 68
            acquiring information indicating a movement of a vehicle in which the position
   measurement device is mounted or included; and
            extracting a specific area in which traveling of the vehicle is recommended or
   not recommended on the basis of the identified position and the acquired information
 5 indicating a movement of the vehicle at a lane level of a road.
   19.   The information processing system according to claim 1, further comprising:
            a risk estimation unit configured to estimate a risk of an occurrence of a
   predetermined event in the attention area on the basis of information acquired by devices
10 mounted or included in a vehicle present in the surroundings of the attention area and
   weather information acquired by a weather observation device at a lane level of a road.
   20.   The information processing system according to claim 19,
            wherein the risk estimation unit refers to a correlation obtained in advance
15 between the information acquired by the devices mounted or included in the vehicle
   present in the surroundings of the attention area, the weather information acquired by the
   weather observation device, and a risk of an occurrence of a predetermined event in the
   attention area and estimates the risk of the occurrence of the predetermined event.
20 21.   The information processing system according to claim 19 or 20,
            wherein the information acquired by the devices mounted or included in the
   vehicle includes at least one piece of information among information acquired by devices
   configured to acquire a change in state of the vehicle, information based on an image
   captured by an imaging unit configured to image the surroundings of the vehicle and

                                                 69
   information acquired by a radar device configured to detect a state in the surroundings of
   the vehicle.
   22.    The information processing system according to claim 21,
 5           wherein the information based on the image captured by the imaging unit is an
   image recognition accuracy acquired from an analysis result of the image, and
            wherein the information acquired by the radar device is an object detection
   accuracy of the radar device.
10 23.    The information processing system according to any one of claims 19 to 22,
            wherein the estimation unit acquires information indicating a movement of the
   vehicle in which the position measurement device is mounted or included, and estimates
   the attention area on the basis of the position identified by the position measurement
   device and the acquired movement of the vehicle at a lane level of a road.
15
   24.    The information processing system according to any one of claims 19 to 23,
            wherein the risk estimation unit estimates a possibility of the predetermined
   event being eliminated in the attention area on the basis of the information acquired by
   the devices mounted or included in the vehicle present in the surroundings of the
20 attention area and the weather information acquired by the weather observation device at
   a lane level of a road.
   25.    The information processing system according to any one of claims 19 to 24,
            wherein the weather information is an amount of rainfall.
25

                                                 70
   26.   The information processing system according to any one of claims 19 to 25,
             wherein the predetermined event includes at least one of flooding and freezing
   of a road surface.
 5 27.   The information processing system according to any one of claims 19 to 26,
             wherein the risk estimation unit transmits information including the estimated
   result to a terminal device that a road manager possesses or a terminal device that an
   occupant of the vehicle possesses.
10 28.   The information processing method according to claim 7, further including:
             estimating a risk of an occurrence of a predetermined event in the attention area
   on the basis of information acquired by devices mounted or included in a vehicle present
   in the surroundings of the attention area and weather information acquired by a weather
   observation device at a lane level of a road.
15

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
