Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
                                              TITLE
                                 PURPLE BABY BROCCOLI
                    CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001] This application claims the benefit of priority from U.S. patent application Ser. No.
15/344,339 filed on November 4, 2016, which is incorporated herein by reference in its
entirety.
                            BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002] The present invention relates to the development of a new and distinct broccoli type
(Brassicaoleracea), designated purple baby broccoli, having purple stems, a tender texture
and early maturity. The invention further relates to parent lines thereof, and methods of
producing purple baby broccoli plants. All publications cited in this application are herein
incorporated by reference.
[0003] There are numerous steps in the development of any novel, desirable plant
germplasm. Plant breeding begins with the analysis and definition of problems and
weaknesses of the current germplasm, the establishment of program goals, and the definition
of specific breeding objectives. The next step is selection of germplasm that possess the
traits to meet the program goals. The goal is to combine in a single variety or hybrid an
improved combination of desirable traits from the parental germplasm. These important
traits may include increased head size and weight, higher seed yield, improved color,
resistance to diseases and insects, tolerance to drought and heat, and better agronomic
quality.
[0004] Broccoli is a member of the Brassicaceae family that is classified in the Italica
cultivar group of the species Brassica oleracea and has a chromosome number of 2n=18.
Broccoli is grown for its large, edible flower heads that are usually green in color and
arranged in a tree-like fashion on branches sprouting out from a thick, edible stalk. Broccoli
is a cool-weather crop that typically does poorly in hot summer weather. The flower head
clusters are eaten before the flower buds open, and may be eaten raw, boiled, steamed, or
cooked a variety of ways. Broccoli is a very nutritious vegetable that is high in vitamin C
and vitamin K. In addition, broccoli contains multiple nutrients considered to have potent
anti-cancer properties, including diindolymethane, selenium and glucoraphanin. There are
three commonly grown types of broccoli: 1) Calabrese, which is the most familiar with large
green heads and thick stalks, 2) Sprouting, which has a larger number of heads with many
thin stalks, and 3) Romanesco, which has numerous small cone-shaped heads arranged in
                                           Pa2e 1 of 62

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
spirals and is yellow-green in color. White and purple varieties of broccoli are also available
in some areas.
[0005] The introduction of hybrid broccoli cultivars in the 1960's provided a magnitude
increase in yield, holding ability, plant uniformity, expanded growing seasons and large-scale
production of broccoli. The goal in broccoli breeding is to make continued improvement in
hybrid broccoli yields and horticultural characteristics in order to sustain the supply to meet
continuous increase in demand for broccoli in developed and emerging world economies.
[0006] All Brassica oleracea will cross-pollinate. Pollination occurs via insect vectors, the
most common of which is the honeybee. Broccoli, like most other Brassicas, has a genetic
characteristic of self-incompatibility, which encourages cross pollination resulting in higher
levels of variability. Variability in populations is desired for wide adaptation and survival.
Broccoli breeding populations can be inbred or backcrossed and/or with the use of double
haploids derived from anther culture to develop homozygous inbred lines. Broccoli Fi
hybrids can be produced by using self-incompatibility or cytoplasmic male sterility to control
pollen movement between selected inbred lines.
[0007] Self-incompatibility (SI) is a breeding system that favors outcrossing and therefore
maximizes recombination in cross-pollinated species. This breeding system in nature has
been utilized by humans in Fi hybrid breeding, especially in Brassica vegetables (Tsunoda et
al., chapter 13). However, SI itself is not a satisfactory method for producing seed that is
entirely or almost entirely hybrid.
[0008] Cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS) is another method used in Brassica vegetable
species to produce Fi hybrids. This method of producing hybrids in Brassica is a more recent
development compared to self-incompatibility. A genetic mutation contained in the
cytoplasm (mitochondria) is responsible for the lack of production of pollen. In Brassica, the
cytoplasm has commonly been identified in and transferred from "Ogura" type radish (Ogura,
1968). The maj or advantage of CMS over self-incompatibility is that under normal
conditions, no pollen is produced in the female parent. Theoretically, this results in the
production of 100% hybrid seed. Under certain stressful growth conditions, however, it may
be possible to produce small amounts of fertile pollen in CMS plants. Brassica inbreds
containing CMS are maintained by continued hybridization to their normal (fertile)
counterpart inbred, commonly referred to as "B" line or a maintainer line.
[0009] Baby broccoli is a hybrid of broccoli (Brassicaoleracea L. var. italica) and gai-lan
(Brassicaoleraceavar. alboglabra),also known as kai-lan, Chinese broccoli, or Chinese
                                           Pa2e 2 of 62

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
kale. Gai-lan is a leaf vegetable having thick, flat, glossy blue-green leaves with thick stems
and a small number of tiny flower heads. Baby broccoli is a green vegetable similar to
broccoli, but with smaller florets, longer thinner tender stalks, and a subtle sweet flavor with
a peppery taste. It resembles a broccoli raab with an asparagus stem. Baby broccoli is
known by the trade names Broccolini@ and Aspabroc, as well as Asparation@, asparations,
Bimi@, broccoletti, broccolette and TenderstemTM.
[0010] Baby broccoli was first developed in 1993 by Sakata Seed Company in Japan.
Growing and harvesting baby broccoli has proved to be moderately challenging. Unlike
broccoli, the side shoots of baby broccoli rather than the main stalk are harvested. The main
stalk is removed as the plant begins to mature to enhance side shoot development. Whereas
broccoli is harvested three times during a season, baby broccoli may be harvested three to
five times, depending on growing conditions. Both removing the main stalk and harvesting
the side shoots is much more labor intensive than broccoli production. Baby broccoli is also
intolerant of temperature extremes and more sensitive to cold temperatures than broccoli.
Baby broccoli is grown year round in California and Arizona. Like broccoli, baby broccoli is
a good source of vitamin C, vitamin A, folate, iron and potassium, and can be eaten a variety
of ways, including raw and cooked.
[0011] Therefore, developing new and improved baby broccoli plants having unique
characteristics, such as purple stem color, more tender texture and early production, is highly
desirable.
[0012] The foregoing examples of the related art and limitations related therewith are
intended to be illustrative and not exclusive. Other limitations of the related art will become
apparent to those of skill in the art upon a reading of the specification.
                               SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0013] The following embodiments and aspects thereof are described in conjunction with
systems, tools, and methods which are meant to be exemplary and illustrative, not limiting in
scope. In various embodiments, one or more of the above-described problems have been
reduced or eliminated, while other embodiments are directed to other improvements.
[0014] According to the invention, there are provided novel purple baby broccoli plants.
This invention thus relates to the seeds of purple baby broccoli plants, to the plants of purple
baby broccoli plants, and to methods for producing a purple baby broccoli plant containing in
its genetic background Brassicaoleracea var. italica (broccoli) and Brassica oleraceavar.
alboglabra(gai-lan), to methods for producing purple baby broccoli plants containing in its
                                           Pa2e 3 of 62

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
genetic material one or more transgenes, and to the transgenic purple baby broccoli plants
produced by that method.
[0015] In another aspect, the present invention provides for methods of producing a purple
baby broccoli plant, said method comprising:
            a. Crossing a broccoli plant with a gai-lan plant to produce an Fi broccoli x gai
                lan hybrid plant;
            b. Crossing said Fi broccoli x gai-lan hybrid plant with a Brassica oleracea plant
                having purple head and purple stems to produce further Fi plants;
            c.  Selecting further Fi plants having purple head and purple stem color to
                produce a broccoli x gai-lan parent plant having purple head and purple stem
                color;
            d. Crossing a broccoli plant and a purple head broccoli plant to produce a
                broccoli parent plant having a purple head with a long floret stem;
            e.  Crossing said broccoli x gai-lan parent plant having purple head and purple
                stem color with said broccoli parent plant having purple head with long floret
                stem to produce a purple baby broccoli plant.
[0016] In another aspect of the invention, the method further comprises selection for a high
number of side shoots.
[0017] In another aspect of the invention, the method further comprises one or more
backcrosses of said further Fi plants to said Fi broccoli x gai-lan hybrid plant or sib-crosses
to produce resultant plants. In another aspect, the method further comprises selecting said
resultant plants based on purple color to produce a broccoli x gai-lan parent plant having
purple head and purple stem color. In another aspect, the method further comprises selection
for a high number of side shoots.
[0018] The invention further provides methods for developing purple baby broccoli plants in
a broccoli plant breeding program using plant breeding techniques including recurrent
selection, backcrossing, pedigree breeding, restriction fragment length polymorphism
enhanced selection, genetic marker enhanced selection, and transformation. Seeds, purple
baby broccoli plants, and parts thereof, produced by such breeding methods are also part of
the invention.
[0019] In another aspect, the invention relates to Fi hybrid purple baby broccoli plants,
including but not limited to K1-703 and K4-706. This invention thus relates to the seeds of
purple baby broccoli K11-703 and K4-706, to the plants of purple baby broccoli K11-703 and
                                           Page 4 of 62

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
K4-706, and to methods for producing a purple baby broccoli plant produced by crossing
purple baby broccoli Ki -703 or K4-706 with itself or another broccoli plant, to methods for
producing purple baby broccoli K1-703 or K4-706 containing in its genetic material one or
more transgenes, and to the transgenic purple baby broccoli plants produced by that method.
[0020] In another aspect, the present invention provides regenerable cells for use in tissue
culture of purple baby broccoli plants. In a further aspect, the present invention provides
regenerable cells for use in tissue culture of purple baby broccoli plants, including but not
limited to K1-703 and K4-706. The tissue culture will preferably be capable of regenerating
plants having essentially all of the physiological and morphological characteristics of the
foregoing broccoli plant, and of regenerating plants having substantially the same genotype
as the foregoing broccoli plant. Preferably, the regenerable cells in such tissue cultures will
be callus, protoplasts, meristematic cells, cotyledons, hypocotyl, leaves, pollen, embryos,
roots, root tips, anthers, pistils, shoots, stems, petiole flowers, and seeds. Still further, the
present invention provides broccoli plants regenerated from the tissue cultures of the
invention.
[0021] Another aspect of the invention is to provide methods for producing other purple baby
broccoli plants derived from purple baby broccoli plants, including but not limited to K1-703
and K4-706. Purple baby broccoli plants derived by the use of those methods are also part of
the invention.
[0022] In another aspect, the present invention provides for single gene converted plants and
locus conversion plants of purple baby broccoli plants. In a further aspect, the present
invention provides for single gene converted plants and locus conversion plants of purple
baby broccoli plants, including but not limited to K1-703 and K4-706. The single transferred
gene may preferably be a dominant or recessive allele. Preferably, the single transferred gene
or locus conversion will confer such traits as male sterility, herbicide resistance, insect or
pest resistance, modified fatty acid metabolism, modified carbohydrate metabolism,
resistance for bacterial, fungal, or viral disease, male fertility, enhanced nutritional quality,
and industrial usage. The single gene may be a naturally occurring broccoli gene or a
transgene introduced through genetic engineering techniques.
[0023] In another aspect, the present invention provides for the parent lines of purple baby
broccoli plants, including but not limited to Brassicaoleracea lines CMS AS001P, AS001P,
CMS AS002P and AS002P. This invention thus relates to the seeds of lines CMS AS001P,
AS001P, CMS AS002P and AS002P, to the plants of lines CMS AS001P, AS001P, CMS
                                              Page 5 of 62

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
AS002P and AS002P, and to methods for producing a purple baby broccoli plant produced
by crossing lines CMS ASOO1P, ASOO1P, CMS AS002P and AS002P, to methods for
producing lines CMS ASOO1P, ASOO1P, CMS AS002P and AS002P containing in their
genetic material one or more transgenes, and to the plants produced by that method.
[0024] In another aspect, the present invention provides regenerable cells for use in tissue
culture of parent lines CMS ASOO1P, ASOO1P, CMS AS002P and AS002P. The tissue
culture will preferably be capable of regenerating plants having essentially all of the
physiological and morphological characteristics of the foregoing broccoli plant, and of
regenerating plants having substantially the same genotype as the foregoing broccoli plant.
Preferably, the regenerable cells in such tissue cultures will be callus, protoplasts,
meristematic cells, cotyledons, hypocotyl, leaves, pollen, embryos, roots, root tips, anthers,
pistils, shoots, stems, petiole flowers, and seeds. Still further, the present invention provides
broccoli plants regenerated from the tissue cultures of the invention.
[0025] Another aspect of the invention is to provide methods for producing other purple baby
broccoli plants derived from parent lines CMS ASOO1P, ASOO1P, CMS AS002P and
AS002P. Purple baby broccoli plants derived by the use of those methods are also part of the
invention.
[0026] In another aspect, the present invention provides for single gene converted plants and
locus conversion plants of parent Brassicaoleracea lines CMS ASOO1P, ASOO1P, CMS
AS002P and AS002P. The single transferred gene may preferably be a dominant or recessive
allele. Preferably, the single transferred gene will confer such traits as male sterility,
herbicide resistance, insect or pest resistance, modified fatty acid metabolism, modified
carbohydrate metabolism, resistance for bacterial, fungal, or viral disease, male fertility,
enhanced nutritional quality, and industrial usage. The single gene may be a naturally
occurring broccoli gene introduced via backcrossing or a transgene introduced through
genetic engineering techniques.
[0027] The purple baby broccoli plants and parent lines CMS ASOO1P, ASOO1P, CMS
AS002P and AS002P of this invention may further comprise, or have, a cytoplasmic factor or
other factor that is capable of conferring male sterility. Male sterility may also be provided
by nuclear genes such as the recessive ms gene. Parts of the broccoli plants of the present
invention are also provided, such as pollen obtained from an inbred plant and an ovule of the
inbred plant.
                                            Pa2e 6 of 62

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
[0028] In a further aspect of the invention, the genetic complement of purple baby broccoli
plants, including but not limited to KI -703 and K4-706, and/or Brassica oleracea lines CMS
ASOO1P, ASOO1P, CMS AS002P and AS002P is provided. The phrase 'genetic complement'
is used to refer to the aggregate of nucleotide sequences, the expression of which sequences
defines the phenotype of a cell or tissue of that plant. A genetic complement thus represents
the genetic makeup of a cell, tissue or plant, and a hybrid genetic complement represents the
genetic make-up of a hybrid cell, tissue or plant. The invention thus provides Brassica
oleracea plant cells that have a genetic complement in accordance with the Brassicaoleracea
plant cells disclosed herein, and plants, seeds and plants containing such cells.
[0029] Plant genetic complements may be assessed by genetic marker profiles, and by the
expression of phenotypic traits that are characteristic of the expression of the genetic
complement, e.g., isozyme typing profiles. It is understood that purple baby broccoli K1-703
and K4-706, and/or Brassica oleracea lines CMS ASOO1P, ASOO1P, CMS AS002P and
AS002P could be identified by any of the many well-known techniques such as, for example,
Simple Sequence Length Polymorphisms (SSLPs) (Williams et al., 1990), Randomly
Amplified Polymorphic DNAs (RAPDs), DNA Amplification Fingerprinting (DAF),
Sequence Characterized Amplified Regions (SCARs), Arbitrary Primed Polymerase Chain
Reaction (AP-PCR), Amplified Fragment Length Polymorphisms (AFLPs) (EP 534 858), and
Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) (Wang et al., 1998).
[0030] In yet another aspect, the present invention provides hybrid genetic complements, as
represented by Brassica oleracea plant cells, tissues, plants, and seeds, formed by the
combination of a haploid genetic complement of a Brassicaoleracea plant of the invention
with a haploid genetic complement of a second Brassica oleracea plant, preferably, another
distinct Brassicaoleracea plant. In another aspect, the present invention provides a Brassica
oleracea plant regenerated from a tissue culture that comprises a hybrid genetic complement
of this invention.
[0031] In another aspect, the invention provides a method of determining the genotype of a
plant of purple baby broccoli plants, including but not limited to KI-703 or K4-706, and/or
Brassica oleracea lines CMS ASOO1P, ASOO1P, CMS AS002P and AS002P comprising
detecting in the genome of the plant at least a first polymorphism. The method may, in
certain embodiments, comprise detecting a plurality of polymorphisms in the genome of the
plant. The method may further comprise storing the results of the step of detecting the
                                           Pa2e 7 of 62

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
plurality of polymorphisms on a computer readable medium. The invention further provides
a computer readable medium produced by such a method.
[0032] In addition to the exemplary aspects and embodiments described above, further
aspects and embodiments will become apparent by reference by study of the following
descriptions.
                       DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0033] In the description and tables which follow, a number of terms are used. In order to
provide a clear and consistent understanding of the specification and claims, including the
scope to be given such terms, the following definitions are provided:
[0034] Allele. The "allele" is any of one or more alternative forms of a gene, all of which
relate to one trait or characteristic. In a diploid cell or organism, the two alleles of a given
gene occupy corresponding loci on a pair of homologous chromosomes.
[0035] Baby broccoli. Baby broccoli is a hybrid of broccoli (Brassicaoleracea L. var.
italica) and gai-lan (Brassicaoleracea var. alboglabra),also known as kai-lan, Chinese
broccoli, and Chinese kale. Baby broccoli is a green vegetable similar to broccoli, but with
smaller florets, longer thinner tender stalks, and a subtle sweet flavor with a peppery taste. It
resembles a broccoli raab with an asparagus stem. Baby broccoli is known by the trade
names Broccolini@ and Aspabroc, as well as Asparation@, asparations, Bimi@, broccoletti,
broccolette and TenderstemTM.
[0036] Backcrossing. "Backcrossing" is a process in which a breeder repeatedly crosses
hybrid progeny back to one of the parents, for example, a first generation hybrid Fi with one
of the parental genotype of the Fi hybrid. Backcrossing can be used to introduce one or more
single locus conversions from one genetic background into another.
[0037] Broccoli. A member of the Brassicaceae family that is classified in the Italica cultivar
group of the species Brassica oleracea and has a chromosome number of 2n=18.
[0038] CMS. Cytoplasmic male sterile.
[0039] Crossing. The mating of two parent plants.
[0040] Cross-pollination. Fertilization by the union of two gametes from different plants.
[0041] Curd. A collection of florets in a single floral structure. Also called "head".
[0042] Diploid. A cell or organism having two sets of chromosomes. The total number of
chromosomes in diploid cells is described as 2n, which is twice the number of chromosomes
in a haploid cell (n).
                                             Pa2e 8 of 62

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
[0043] Emasculate. The removal of plant male sex organs or the inactivation of the organs
with a cytoplasmic or nuclear genetic factor or a chemical agent conferring male sterility.
[0044] Essentially all the physiological and morphological characteristics. A plant having
essentially all the physiological and morphological characteristics means a plant having the
physiological and morphological characteristics of the recurrent parent, except for the
characteristics derived from the converted gene.
[0045] Fi hybrid. The first generation progeny of the cross of two nonisogenic plants.
[0046] Floret. The flower bud cluster including that part of the secondary stem supporting
the flower bud cluster, which collectively make up the curd or head.
[0047] Floret stem. The floret stem is the stem supporting the flower bud cluster. It is not
limited to the secondary stem, but also tertiary stems and others.
[0048] Gai-lan. Brassicaoleracea var. alboglabra,also known as kai-lan, Chinese broccoli,
or Chinese kale. Gai-lan is a leaf vegetable having thick, flat, glossy blue-green leaves with
thick stems and a small number of tiny flower heads.
[0049] Gene. As used herein, "gene" refers to a segment of nucleic acid. A gene can be
introduced into a genome of a species, whether from a different species or from the same
species, using transformation or various breeding methods.
[0050] Gene converted (conversion). "Gene converted" or "Single gene converted" (or
conversion) plant refers to plants which are developed by a plant breeding technique called
backcrossing wherein essentially all of the desired morphological and physiological
characteristics of an inbred are recovered in addition to the one or more genes transferred into
the inbred via the backcrossing technique or via genetic engineering.
[0051] Genotype. The genetic constitution of a cell or organism.
[0052] Haploid. A cell or organism having one set of the two sets of chromosomes in a
diploid.
[0053] Head. A collection of florets in a single floral structure. Also called "curd".
[0054] Linkage. Refers to a phenomenon wherein alleles on the same chromosome tend to
segregate together more often than expected by chance if their transmission was independent.
[0055] Locus. A defined segment of DNA.
[0056] Locus conversion (also called a 'trait conversion'). A locus conversion refers to
plants that have been modified in a manner that retains the overall genetics of the plant and
further comprises one or more loci with a specific desired trait, such as male sterility, insect
control, disease control or herbicide tolerance. Examples of single locus conversions include
                                           Pa2e 9 of 62

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
mutant genes, transgenes and native traits finely mapped to a single locus. One or more
locus conversion traits may be introduced into a single plant.
[0057] Long floret stem. As used herein, a long floret stem is at least 6.0 cm in length.
[0058] Pedigree breeding/selection. "Pedigree breeding" is a breeding method used during
the inbreeding of populations of self- and cross-pollinated species for the development of
desirable homogeneous lines. Pedigree selection generally begins with an         F2 population and
continues until homogeneous lines are developed.
[0059] Petiole. "Petiole" means the stalk of a leaf, attaching the leaf blade to the stem.
[0060] Phenotype. The detectable characteristics of a cell or organism, which characteristics
are the manifestation of gene expression.
[0061] Plant. "Plant" includes plant cells, plant protoplasts, plant ovules, plant cells of tissue
culture from which B. oleracea plants can be regenerated, plant calli, plant clumps and plant
cells that are intact in plants, or parts of plants such as pollen, flowers, seeds, leaves, stems,
and the like.
[0062] Purple baby broccoli. Purple baby broccoli is a hybrid of broccoli (Brassicaoleracea
L. var. italica) and gai-lan (Brassicaoleracea var. alboglabra),also known as Chinese
broccoli, Chinese kale, or kailaan, as described herein, and differs from baby broccoli and
traditional purple sprouting broccoli by having improved purple stem color, more tender
texture and early maturity. Representative purple baby broccoli plants described herein
include, but are not limited to, K1-703, K4-706, 12KA075sis, 12KA077 and 12KA069.
[0063] Purple head. A purple head includes, but is not limited to, the following color
designations from the RHS color chart: RHS NI 87A, 79A, N79A, and N92A.
[0064] Purple stems. Purple stems include, but are not limited to, the following color
designations from the RHS color chart: RHS Ni 87A, N77C, N79A, and N79C.
[0065] Quantitative Trait Loci. "Quantitative Trait Loci" (QTL) refers to genetic loci that
control to some degree, numerically representable traits that are usually continuously
distributed.
[0066] Regeneration. "Regeneration" refers to the development of a plant from tissue
culture.
[0067] RHS. "RHS" refers to the Royal Horticultural Society of England which publishes an
official botanical color chart quantitatively identifying colors according to a defined
numbering system. The chart may be purchased from Royal Horticulture Society Enterprise
Ltd., RHS Garden; Wisley, Woking; Surrey GU236QB, UK.
                                             Pa2e 10 of 62

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
[0068] Self-pollination. The transfer of pollen from the anther to the stigma of the same
plant.
[0069] Sib-cross. The cross of two plants having common parentage.
[0070] Side shoots. Axillary stems except for a main stem, and supporting and forming part
of individual florets.
[0071] Single gene converted. "Single gene converted" or "conversion plant" refers to plants
which are developed by a plant breeding technique called backcrossing or via genetic
engineering wherein essentially all of the desired morphological and physiological
characteristics of a line are recovered in addition to the single gene transferred into the line
via the backcrossing technique or via genetic engineering.
[0072] Tissue culture. A composition comprising isolated cells of the same or a different
type of collection of such cells organized into parts of a plant.
[0073] Transgene. A genetic locus comprising a sequence which has been introduced into
the genome of a plant by transformation.
[0074] The following detailed description is of the currently contemplated modes of carrying
out the invention. The description is not to be taken in a limiting sense, but is made merely
for the purpose of illustrating the general principles of the invention, since the scope of the
invention is best defined by the appended claims.
[0075] The present invention is directed to purple baby broccoli plants and seeds, the parents
thereof, and methods of producing purple baby broccoli plants. Purple baby broccoli is a
novel plant type distinguished from baby broccoli by unexpectedly having very dark purple
color on the stems and florets, very early maturity, very uniform head maturity, and head
spears that are smoother with fewer leaves. Purple baby broccoli is phenotypically
distinguished from traditional purple sprouting broccoli by having improved darker purple
stem color, longer and more tender and milder tasting stems, more detached florets instead of
one broccoli head or loose broccoli head, and earlier maturity. In trials, purple baby broccoli
was more uniformly purple than the most similar comparison varieties. To date, there are no
known purple baby broccoli varieties other than the present invention, and thus, purple baby
broccoli is different from known varieties of broccoli, including baby broccoli. The closest
known product to purple baby broccoli is a variety called Purple Peacock, which is a
broccoli-kale(Brassica oleraceavar. acephala)cross, but has leaves that are very fringy like
Red Russian or Red Winter kale. Purple baby broccoli contains in its genetic background
Brassica oleracea var. italica (broccoli) and Brassica oleracea var. alboglabra(gai-lan).
                                          Page 11 of 62

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
[0076] The present invention is further directed to methods of producing purple baby
broccoli plants and seeds, to the purple baby broccoli plants and seeds produced by the
method, and to the parent lines used to produce the purple baby broccoli. Therefore, any
methods using purple baby broccoli are part of this invention: selfing, backcrosses, hybrid
breeding, and crosses to populations.
[0077] Additional methods include, but are not limited to, expression vectors introduced into
plant tissues using a direct gene transfer method, such as microprojectile-mediated delivery,
DNA injection, electroporation, and the like. More preferably, expression vectors are
introduced into plant tissues by using either microprojectile-mediated delivery with a biolistic
device or by using Agrobacterium-mediatedtransformation. Transformed plants obtained
with the protoplasm of the invention are intended to be within the scope of this invention.
                      FURTHER EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION
[0078] Broccoli, and Brassica oleraceain general, is an important and valuable vegetable
crop. Thus, a continuing goal of broccoli plant breeders is to develop stable, high yielding
broccoli cultivars and hybrids that are agronomically sound. To accomplish this goal, the
broccoli breeder must select and develop broccoli plants with traits that result in superior
cultivars.
[0079] Proper testing should detect any major faults and establish the level of superiority or
improvement over current cultivars. In addition to showing superior performance, there must
be a demand for a new cultivar that is compatible with industry standards or which creates a
new market. The introduction of a new cultivar will incur additional costs to the seed
producer, the grower, processor and consumer for special advertising and marketing, altered
seed and commercial production practices, and new product utilization. The testing
preceding release of a new cultivar should take into consideration research and development
costs, as well as technical superiority of the final cultivar. For seed-propagated cultivars, it
must be feasible to produce seed easily and economically.
[0080] Choice of breeding or selection methods depends on the mode of plant reproduction,
the heritability of the trait(s) being improved, and the type of cultivar used commercially
(e.g., Fi hybrid cultivar, pureline cultivar, etc.). For highly heritable traits, a choice of
superior individual plants evaluated at a single location will be effective, whereas for traits
with low heritability, selection should be based on mean values obtained from replicated
evaluations of families of related plants. Popular selection methods commonly include
pedigree selection, modified pedigree selection, mass selection, and recurrent selection.
                                           Page 12 of 62

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
[0081] The complexity of inheritance influences choice of the breeding method. Backcross
breeding is used to transfer one or a few favorable genes for a highly heritable trait into a
desirable cultivar. This approach has been used extensively for breeding disease-resistant
cultivars. Various recurrent selection techniques are used to improve quantitatively inherited
traits controlled by numerous genes. The use of recurrent selection in self-pollinating crops
depends on the ease of pollination, the frequency of successful hybrids from each pollination,
and the number of hybrid offspring from each successful cross.
[0082] Each breeding program should include a periodic, objective evaluation of the
efficiency of the breeding procedure. Evaluation criteria vary depending on the goal and
objectives, but should include gain from selection per year based on comparisons to an
appropriate standard, the overall value of the advanced breeding lines, and the number of
successful cultivars produced per unit of input (e.g., per year, per dollar expended, etc.).
[0083] Promising advanced breeding lines are thoroughly tested and compared to appropriate
standards in environments representative of the commercial target area(s) for at least three
years. The best lines are candidates for new commercial cultivars. Those still deficient in a
few traits are used as parents to produce new populations for further selection.
[0084] These processes, which lead to the final step of marketing and distribution, usually
take from ten to twenty years from the time the first cross or selection is made. Therefore,
development of new cultivars is a time-consuming process that requires precise forward
planning, efficient use of resources, and a minimum of changes in direction.
[0085] A most difficult task is the identification of individuals that are genetically superior,
because for most traits the true genotypic value is masked by other confounding plant traits
or environmental factors. One method of identifying a superior plant is to observe its
performance relative to other experimental plants and to a widely grown standard cultivar. If
a single observation is inconclusive, replicated observations provide a better estimate of its
genetic worth.
[0086] The goal of broccoli plant breeding is to develop new, unique, and superior broccoli
cultivars and hybrids. The breeder initially selects and crosses two or more parental lines,
followed by repeated selfing and selection, producing many new genetic combinations. The
breeder can theoretically generate billions of different genetic combinations via crossing,
selfing, and mutations. The breeder has no direct control at the cellular level. Therefore, two
breeders will never develop the same line, or even very similar lines, having the same
broccoli traits.
                                          Pa2e 13 of 62

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
[0087] Each year, the plant breeder selects the germplasm to advance to the next generation.
This germplasm is grown under different geographical, climatic, and soil conditions, and
further selections are then made during, and at the end of, the growing season. The cultivars
that are developed are unpredictable. This unpredictability is because the breeder's selection
occurs in unique environments, with no control at the DNA level (using conventional
breeding procedures), and with millions of different possible genetic combinations being
generated. A breeder of ordinary skill in the art cannot predict the final resulting lines he
develops, except possibly in a very gross and general fashion. The same breeder cannot
produce the same line twice by using the exact same original parents and the same selection
techniques. This unpredictability results in the expenditure of large research monies to
develop superior broccoli cultivars.
[0088] The development of commercial broccoli cultivars requires the development of
broccoli varieties, the crossing of these varieties and selection of superior hybrid crosses.
The hybrid seed is produced by manual crosses between selected male-fertile parents or by
using male sterility systems. These hybrids are selected for certain single gene traits such as
fruit color, flower color, pubescence color or herbicide resistance which indicate that the seed
is truly a hybrid. Additional data on parental lines, as well as the phenotype of the hybrid,
influence the breeder's decision whether to continue with the specific hybrid cross.
[0089] Pedigree breeding is used commonly for the improvement of self-pollinating crops or
inbred lines of cross-pollinating crops. Two parents which possess favorable, complementary
traits are crossed to produce an Fi. An    F2 population is produced by selfing one or several
Fi's or by intercrossing two Fi's (sib mating). Selection of the best individuals is usually
begun in the F2 population. Then, beginning in the F3, the best individuals in the best
families are selected. Replicated testing of families, or hybrid combinations involving
individuals of these families, often follows in the F4 generation to improve the effectiveness
of selection for traits with low heritability. At an advanced stage of inbreeding (i.e.,  F6 and
F7), the best lines or mixtures of phenotypically similar lines are tested for potential release as
new cultivars.
[0090] Mass and recurrent selections can be used to improve populations of either self- or
cross-pollinating crops. A genetically variable population of heterozygous individuals is
either identified or created by intercrossing several different parents. The best plants are
selected based on individual superiority, outstanding progeny, or excellent combining ability.
                                            Pa2e 14 of 62

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
 The selected plants are intercrossed to produce a new population in which further cycles of
selection are continued.
[0091] Backcross breeding has been used to transfer genes for a simply inherited, highly
heritable trait into a desirable homozygous cultivar or line that is the recurrent parent. The
source of the trait to be transferred is called the donor parent. The resulting plant is expected
to have the attributes of the recurrent parent (e.g., cultivar) and the desirable trait transferred
from the donor parent. After the initial cross, individuals possessing the phenotype of the
donor parent are selected and repeatedly crossed (backcrossed) to the recurrent parent. The
resulting plant is expected to have the attributes of the recurrent parent (e.g., cultivar) and the
desirable trait transferred from the donor parent.
[0092] The single-seed descent procedure in the strict sense refers to planting a segregating
population, harvesting a sample of one seed per plant, and using the one-seed sample to plant
the next generation. When the population has been advanced from the F2 to the desired level
of inbreeding, the plants from which lines are derived will each trace to different     F2
individuals. The number of plants in a population declines with each generation due to
failure of some seeds to germinate or some plants to produce at least one seed. As a result,
not all of the F2  plants originally sampled in the population will be represented by a progeny
when generation advance is completed.
[0093] In a multiple-seed procedure, broccoli breeders commonly harvest two or more seeds
from each plant in a population and bulk them to form a bulk sample. Part of the bulk is used
to plant the next generation and part is put in reserve. The procedure has been referred to as
modified single-seed descent or the "pod-bulk" (for bean crops) technique.
[0094] The multiple-seed procedure has been used to save labor at harvest. It is considerably
faster to extract seeds with a machine than to remove one seed from each by hand for the
single-seed procedure. The multiple-seed procedure also makes it possible to plant the same
number of seeds of a population each generation of inbreeding. Enough seeds are harvested
to make up for those plants that did not germinate or produce seed.
[0095] In addition to phenotypic observations, the genotype of a plant can also be examined.
 There are many laboratory-based techniques available for the analysis, comparison and
characterization of plant genotype; among these are Isozyme Electrophoresis, Restriction
Fragment Length Polymorphisms (RFLPs), Randomly Amplified Polymorphic DNAs
(RAPDs), Arbitrarily Primed Polymerase Chain Reaction (AP-PCR), DNA Amplification
Fingerprinting (DAF), Sequence Characterized Amplified Regions (SCARs), Amplified
                                           Pa2e 15 of 62

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
Fragment Length polymorphisms (AFLPs), Simple Sequence Repeats (SSRs - which are also
referred to as Microsatellites), and Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs).
[0096] Isozyme Electrophoresis and RFLPs have been widely used to determine genetic
composition. Shoemaker and Olsen (Molecular Linkage Map of Soybean (Glycine max),
pp. 6.131-6.138 in S.J. O'Brien (ed.) Genetic Maps: Locus Maps of Complex Genomes, Cold
Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor, NY (1993)) developed a molecular
genetic linkage map that consisted of 25 linkage groups with about 365 RFLP, 11 RAPD,
three classical markers, and four isozyme loci. See also, Shoemaker, R.C., RFLP Map of
Soybean, pp. 299-309, in Phillips, R.L. and Vasil, I.K. (eds.), DNA-Based Markers in Plants,
Kluwer Academic Press, Dordrecht, the Netherlands (1994).
[0097] SSR technology is currently the most efficient and practical marker technology; more
marker loci can be routinely used and more alleles per marker locus can be found using SSRs
in comparison to RFLPs. For example, Diwan and Cregan described a highly polymorphic
microsatellite locus in soybean with as many as 26 alleles. Diwan, N. and Cregan, P.B.,
Theor. Appl. Genet., 95:22-225 (1997). SNPs may also be used to identify the unique genetic
composition of the invention and progeny varieties retaining that unique genetic composition.
 Various molecular marker techniques may be used in combination to enhance overall
resolution.
[0098] Molecular markers, which include markers identified through the use of techniques
such as Isozyme Electrophoresis, RFLPs, RAPDs, AP-PCR, DAF, SCARs, AFLPs, SSRs,
and SNPs, may be used in plant breeding. One use of molecular markers is Quantitative Trait
Loci (QTL) mapping. QTL mapping is the use of markers which are known to be closely
linked to alleles that have measurable effects on a quantitative trait. Selection in the breeding
process is based upon the accumulation of markers linked to the positive effecting alleles
and/or the elimination of the markers linked to the negative effecting alleles from the plant's
genome.
[0099] Molecular markers can also be used during the breeding process for the selection of
qualitative traits. For example, markers closely linked to alleles or markers containing
sequences within the actual alleles of interest can be used to select plants that contain the
alleles of interest during a backcrossing breeding program. The markers can also be used to
select toward the genome of the recurrent parent and against the markers of the donor parent.
 This procedure attempts to minimize the amount of genome from the donor parent that
remains in the selected plants. It can also be used to reduce the number of crosses back to the
                                          Pa2e 16 of 62

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
recurrent parent needed in a backcrossing program. The use of molecular markers in the
selection process is often called genetic marker enhanced selection or marker-assisted
selection. Molecular markers may also be used to identify and exclude certain sources of
germplasm as parental varieties or ancestors of a plant by providing a means of tracking
genetic profiles through crosses.
[0100] Mutation breeding is another method of introducing new traits into broccoli varieties.
 Mutations that occur spontaneously or are artificially induced can be useful sources of
variability for a plant breeder. The goal of artificial mutagenesis is to increase the rate of
mutation for a desired characteristic. Mutation rates can be increased by many different
means including temperature, long-term seed storage, tissue culture conditions, radiation
(such as X-rays, Gamma rays, neutrons, Beta radiation, or ultraviolet radiation), chemical
mutagens (such as base analogs like 5-bromo-uracil), antibiotics, alkylating agents (such as
sulfur mustards, nitrogen mustards, epoxides, ethyleneamines, sulfates, sulfonates, sulfones,
or lactones), azide, hydroxylamine, nitrous acid, or acridines. Once a desired trait is
observed through mutagenesis the trait may then be incorporated into existing germplasm by
traditional breeding techniques. Details of mutation breeding can be found in Principlesof
Cultivar Development by Fehr, Macmillan Publishing Company (1993).
[0101] The production of double haploids can also be used for the development of
homozygous varieties in a breeding program. Double haploids are produced by the doubling
of a set of chromosomes from a heterozygous plant to produce a completely homozygous
individual. For example, see Wan, et al., Theor. Appl. Genet., 77:889-892 (1989).
[0102] Descriptions of other breeding methods that are commonly used for different traits
and crops can be found in one of several reference books (e.g., PrinciplesofPlant Breeding,
John Wiley and Son, pp. 115-161 (1960); Allard (1960); Simmonds (1979); Sneep, et al.
(1979); Fehr (1987); "Carrots and Related Vegetable Umbelliferae," Rubatzky, V.E., et al.
(1999).
[0103] With the advent of molecular biological techniques that have allowed the isolation
and characterization of genes that encode specific protein products, scientists in the field of
plant biology developed a strong interest in engineering the genome of plants to contain and
express foreign genes, or additional, or modified versions of native, or endogenous, genes
(perhaps driven by different promoters) in order to alter the traits of a plant in a specific
manner. Any DNA sequences, whether from a different species or from the same species,
which are introduced into the genome using transformation or various breeding methods, are
                                          Pa2e 17 of 62

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
referred to herein collectively as "transgenes." Over the last fifteen to twenty years, several
methods for producing transgenic plants have been developed, and the present invention, in
particular embodiments, also relates to transformed versions of the claimed line.
[0104] Nucleic acids or polynucleotides refer to RNA or DNA that is linear or branched,
single or double stranded, or a hybrid thereof The term also encompasses RNA/DNA
hybrids. These terms also encompass untranslated sequence located at both the 3' and 5' ends
of the coding region of the gene: at least about 1000 nucleotides of sequence upstream from
the 5' end of the coding region and at least about 200 nucleotides of sequence downstream
from the 3' end of the coding region of the gene. Less common bases, such as inosine, 5
methylcytosine, 6-methyladenine, hypoxanthine, and others can also be used for antisense,
dsRNA, and ribozyme pairing. For example, polynucleotides that contain C-5 propyne
analogues of uridine and cytidine have been shown to bind RNA with high affinity and to be
potent antisense inhibitors of gene expression. Other modifications, such as modification to
the phosphodiester backbone, or the 2'-hydroxy in the ribose sugar group of the RNA can
also be made. The antisense polynucleotides and ribozymes can consist entirely of
ribonucleotides, or can contain mixed ribonucleotides and deoxyribonucleotides. The
polynucleotides of the invention may be produced by any means, including genomic
preparations, cDNA preparations, in vitro synthesis, RT-PCR, and in vitro or in vivo
transcription.
[0105] Plant transformation involves the construction of an expression vector that will
function in plant cells. Such a vector comprises DNA comprising a gene under control of, or
operatively linked to, a regulatory element (for example, a promoter). The expression vector
may contain one or more such operably linked gene/regulatory element combinations. The
vector(s) may be in the form of a plasmid, and can be used alone or in combination with other
plasmids, to provide transformed broccoli plants using transformation methods as described
below to incorporate transgenes into the genetic material of the broccoli plant(s).
Expression Vectors for Broccoli Transformation: Marker Genes
[0106] Expression vectors include at least one genetic marker, operably linked to a
regulatory element (for example, a promoter) that allows transformed cells containing the
marker to be either recovered by negative selection, i.e., inhibiting growth of cells that do not
contain the selectable marker gene, or by positive selection, i.e., screening for the product
encoded by the genetic marker. Many commonly used selectable marker genes for plant
transformation are well known in the transformation arts, and include, for example, genes
                                          Pa2e 18 of 62

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
that code for enzymes that metabolically detoxify a selective chemical agent which may be
an antibiotic or an herbicide, or genes that encode an altered target which is insensitive to the
inhibitor. A few positive selection methods are also known in the art.
[0107] One commonly used selectable marker gene for plant transformation is the neomycin
phosphotransferase II (nptll) gene, isolated from transposon Tn5, which when placed under
the control of plant regulatory signals confers resistance to kanamycin. Fraley, et al., PNAS,
80:4803 (1983). Another commonly used selectable marker gene is the hygromycin
phosphotransferase gene which confers resistance to the antibiotic hygromycin. Vanden
Elzen, et al., PlantMol. Biol., 5:299 (1985).
[0108] Additional selectable marker genes of bacterial origin that confer resistance to
antibiotics include gentamycin acetyl transferase, streptomycin phosphotransferase,
aminoglycoside-3'-adenyl transferase, the bleomycin resistance determinant. Hayford, et al.,
PlantPhysiol., 86:1216 (1988); Jones, et al., Mol. Gen. Genet., 210:86 (1987); Svab, et al.,
PlantMol. Biol., 14:197 (1990); Hille, et al., PlantMol.Biol., 7:171 (1986). Other selectable
marker genes confer resistance to herbicides such as glyphosate, glufosinate, or bromoxynil.
Comai, et al., Nature, 317:741-744 (1985); Gordon-Kamm, et al., PlantCell, 2:603-618
(1990); and Stalker, et al., Science, 242:419-423 (1988).
[0109] Selectable marker genes for plant transformation that are not of bacterial origin
include, for example, mouse dihydrofolate reductase, plant 5-enolpyruvylshikimate-3
phosphate synthase, and plant acetolactate synthase. Eichholtz, et al., Somatic Cell Mol.
Genet., 13:67 (1987); Shah, et al., Science, 233:478 (1986); and Charest, et al., Plant Cell
Rep., 8:643 (1990).
[0110] Another class of marker genes for plant transformation requires screening of
presumptively transformed plant cells rather than direct genetic selection of transformed cells
for resistance to a toxic substance such as an antibiotic. These genes are particularly useful
to quantify or visualize the spatial pattern of expression of a gene in specific tissues and are
frequently referred to as reporter genes because they can be fused to a gene or gene
regulatory sequence for the investigation of gene expression. Commonly used genes for
screening presumptively transformed cells include a-glucuronidase (GUS), u-galactosidase,
luciferase and chloramphenicol, acetyltransferase. Jefferson, R.A., PlantMol. Biol., 5:387
(1987); Teen, et al., EMBO J, 8:343 (1989); Koncz, et al., PNAS, 84:131 (1987); and
DeBlock, et al., EABO J, 3:1681 (1984).
                                           Pasze 19 of 62

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
[0111] In vivo methods for visualizing GUS activity that do not require destruction of plant
tissues are available. Molecular Probes, Publication 2908, IMAGENE GREEN, pp. 1-4
(1993) and Naleway, et al., J Cell Biol., 115:151a (1991). However, these in vivo methods
for visualizing GUS activity have not proven useful for recovery of transformed cells because
of low sensitivity, high fluorescent backgrounds, and limitations associated with the use of
luciferase genes as selectable markers.
[0112] More recently, a gene encoding Green Fluorescent Protein (GFP) has been utilized as
a marker for gene expression in prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells. Chalfie, et al., Science,
263:802 (1994). GFP and mutants of GFP may be used as screenable markers.
Expression Vectors for Broccoli Transformation: Promoters
[0113] Genes included in expression vectors must be driven by a nucleotide sequence
comprising a regulatory element (for example, a promoter). Several types of promoters are
now well known in the transformation arts, as are other regulatory elements that can be used
alone or in combination with promoters.
[0114] As used herein, "promoter" includes reference to a region of DNA upstream from the
start of transcription and involved in recognition and binding of RNA polymerase and other
proteins to initiate transcription. A "plant promoter" is a promoter capable of initiating
transcription in plant cells. Examples of promoters under developmental control include
promoters that preferentially initiate transcription in certain tissues, such as leaves, roots,
seeds, fibers, xylem vessels, tracheids, or sclerenchyma. Such promoters are referred to as
"tissue-preferred." Promoters which initiate transcription only in certain tissue are referred to
as "tissue-specific." A "cell type" specific promoter primarily drives expression in certain
cell types in one or more organs, for example, vascular cells in roots or leaves. An
"inducible" promoter is a promoter which is under environmental control. Examples of
environmental conditions that may effect transcription by inducible promoters include
anaerobic conditions or the presence of light. Tissue-specific, tissue-preferred, cell type
specific, and inducible promoters constitute the class of "non-constitutive" promoters. A
"constitutive" promoter is a promoter which is active under most environmental conditions.
A. Inducible Promoters:
[0115] An inducible promoter is operably linked to a gene for expression in broccoli.
Optionally, the inducible promoter is operably linked to a nucleotide sequence encoding a
signal sequence which is operably linked to a gene for expression in broccoli. With an
inducible promoter, the rate of transcription increases in response to an inducing agent.
                                           Pasze 20 of 62

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
[0116] Any inducible promoter can be used in the instant invention. See Ward, et al., Plant
Mol. Biol., 22:361-366 (1993). Exemplary inducible promoters include, but are not limited
to, that from the ACEI system which responds to copper (Meft, et al., PNAS, 90:4567-4571
(1993)); In2 gene from maize which responds to benzenesulfonamide herbicide safeners
(Hershey, et al., Mol. Gen. Genet., 227:229-237 (1991) and Gatz, et al., Mol. Gen. Genet.,
243:32-38 (1994)) or Tet repressor from Tn10 (Gatz, et al., Mol. Gen. Genet., 227:229-237
(1991)). A particularly preferred inducible promoter is a promoter that responds to an
inducing agent to which plants do not normally respond. An exemplary inducible promoter is
the inducible promoter from a steroid hormone gene, the transcriptional activity of which is
induced by a glucocorticosteroid hormone. Schena, et al., PNAS, 88:0421 (1991).
B. Constitutive Promoters:
[0117] A constitutive promoter is operably linked to a gene for expression in broccoli or the
constitutive promoter is operably linked to a nucleotide sequence encoding a signal sequence
which is operably linked to a gene for expression in broccoli.
[0118] Many different constitutive promoters can be utilized in the instant invention.
Exemplary constitutive promoters include, but are not limited to, the promoters from plant
viruses such as the 35S promoter from CaMV (Odell, et al., Nature, 313:810-812 (1985)) and
the promoters from such genes as rice actin (McElroy, et al., Plant Cell, 2:163-171 (1990));
ubiquitin (Christensen, et al., Plant Mol. Biol., 12:619-632 (1989) and Christensen, et al.,
Plant Mol. Biol., 18:675-689 (1992)); pEMU (Last, et al., Theor. Appl. Genet., 81:581-588
(1991)); MAS (Velten, et al., EMBO J., 3:2723-2730 (1984)) and maize H3 histone (Lepetit,
et al., Mol. Gen. Genet., 231:276-285 (1992) and Atanassova, et al., Plant J., 2 (3):291-300
(1992)). The ALS promoter, Xbal/Ncol fragment 5' to the Brassica napus ALS3 structural
gene (or a nucleotide sequence similarity to said Xbal/Ncol fragment), represents a
particularly useful constitutive promoter. See PCT Application No. WO 96/30530.
C. Tissue-Specific or Tissue-Preferred Promoters:
[0119] A tissue-specific promoter is operably linked to a gene for expression in broccoli.
Optionally, the tissue-specific promoter is operably linked to a nucleotide sequence encoding
a signal sequence which is operably linked to a gene for expression in broccoli. Plants
transformed with a gene of interest operably linked to a tissue-specific promoter produce the
protein product of the transgene exclusively, or preferentially, in a specific tissue.
[0120] Any tissue-specific or tissue-preferred promoter can be utilized in the instant
invention. Exemplary tissue-specific or tissue-preferred promoters include, but are not
                                          Pa2e 21 of 62

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
limited to, a root-preferred promoter, such as that from the phaseolin gene (Murai, et al.,
Science, 23:476-482 (1983) and Sengupta-Gopalan, et al., PNAS, 82:3320-3324 (1985)); a
leaf-specific and light-induced promoter such as that from cab or rubisco (Simpson, et al.,
EMBO J., 4(11):2723-2729 (1985) and Timko, et al., Nature, 318:579-582 (1985)); an
anther-specific promoter such as that from LAT52 (Twell, et al., Mol. Gen. Genet., 217:240
245 (1989)); a pollen-specific promoter such as that from Zm13 (Guerrero, et al., Mol. Gen.
Genet., 244:161-168 (1993)) or a microspore-preferred promoter such as that from apg
(Twell, et al., Sex. Plant Reprod., 6:217-224 (1993)).
Signal Sequences for Targeting Proteins to Subcellular Compartments
[0121] Transport of protein produced by transgenes to a subcellular compartment such as the
chloroplast, vacuole, peroxisome, glyoxysome, cell wall, or mitochondrion, or for secretion
into the apoplast, is accomplished by means of operably linking the nucleotide sequence
encoding a signal sequence to the 5' and/or 3' region of a gene encoding the protein of
interest. Targeting sequences at the 5' and/or 3' end of the structural gene may determine,
during protein synthesis and processing, where the encoded protein is ultimately
compartmentalized.
[0122] The presence of a signal sequence directs a polypeptide to either an intracellular
organelle or subcellular compartment or for secretion to the apoplast. Many signal sequences
are known in the art. See, for example, Becker, et al., Plant Mol. Biol., 20:49 (1992); Close,
P.S., Master's Thesis, Iowa State University (1993); Knox, C., et al., "Structure and
Organization of Two Divergent Alpha-Amylase Genes from Barley," Plant Mol. Biol., 9:3-17
(1987); Lerner, et al., Plant Physiol., 91:124-129 (1989); Fontes, et al., Plant Cell, 3:483-496
(1991); Matsuoka, et al., PNAS, 88:834 (1991); Gould, et al., J. Cell. Biol., 108:1657 (1989);
Creissen, et al., Plant J., 2:129 (1991); Kalderon, et al., A short amino acid sequence able to
specify nuclear location, Cell, 39:499-509 (1984); and Steifel, et al., Expression of a maize
cell wall hydroxyproline-rich glycoprotein gene in early leaf and root vascular differentiation,
Plant Cell, 2:785-793 (1990).
Foreign Protein Genes and Aronomic Genes
[0123] With transgenic plants according to the present invention, a foreign protein can be
produced in commercial quantities. Thus, techniques for the selection and propagation of
transformed plants, which are well understood in the art, yield a plurality of transgenic plants
which are harvested in a conventional manner, and a foreign protein then can be extracted
from a tissue of interest or from total biomass. Protein extraction from plant biomass can be
                                           Pa2e 22 of 62

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
accomplished by known methods which are discussed, for example, by Heney and Orr, Anal.
Biochem., 114:92-6 (1981).
[0124] According to a preferred embodiment, the transgenic plant provided for commercial
production of foreign protein is broccoli. In another preferred embodiment, the biomass of
interest is seed. For the relatively small number of transgenic plants that show higher levels
of expression, a genetic map can be generated, primarily via conventional RFLP, PCR, and
SSR analysis, which identifies the approximate chromosomal location of the integrated DNA
molecule. For exemplary methodologies in this regard, see Methods in Plant Molecular
Biology and Biotechnology, Glick and Thompson Eds., 269:284, CRC Press, Boca Raton
(1993). Map information concerning chromosomal location is useful for proprietary
protection of a subject transgenic plant. If unauthorized propagation is undertaken and
crosses made with other germplasm, the map of the integration region can be compared to
similar maps for suspect plants, to determine if the latter have a common parentage with the
subject plant. Map comparisons would involve hybridizations, RFLP, PCR, SSR, and
sequencing, all of which are conventional techniques.
[0125] Likewise, by means of the present invention, agronomic genes can be expressed in
transformed plants. More particularly, plants can be genetically engineered to express
various phenotypes of agronomic interest. Exemplary genes implicated in this regard
include, but are not limited to, those categorized below:
A. Genes That Confer Resistance to Pests or Disease and That Encode:
[0126] 1. Plant disease resistance genes. Plant defenses are often activated by specific
interaction between the product of a disease resistance gene (R) in the plant and the product
of a corresponding avirulence (Avr) gene in the pathogen. A plant line can be transformed
with a cloned resistance gene to engineer plants that are resistant to specific pathogen strains.
 See, for example, Jones, et al., Science, 266:789 (1994) (cloning of the tomato Cf-9 gene for
resistance to Cladosporium fulvum); Martin, et al., Science, 262:1432 (1993) (tomato Pto
gene for resistance to Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato encodes a protein kinase); and
Mindrinos, et al., Cell, 78:1089 (1994) (Arabidopsis RSP2 gene for resistance to
Pseudomonas syringae).
[0127] 2. A Bacillus thuringiensis protein, a derivative thereof, or a synthetic polypeptide
modeled thereon. See, for example, Geiser, et al., Gene, 48:109 (1986), who disclose the
cloning and nucleotide sequence of a Bt 6-endotoxin gene. Moreover, DNA molecules
encoding 6-endotoxin genes can be purchased from American Type Culture Collection,
                                          Pa2e 23 of 62

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
Manassas, Virginia, for example, under ATCC Accession Nos. 40098, 67136, 31995, and
31998.
[0128] 3. A lectin. See, for example, the disclosure by Van Damme, et al., PlantMol. Biol.,
24:25 (1994), who disclose the nucleotide sequences of several Clivia miniata mannose
binding lectin genes.
[0129] 4. A vitamin-binding protein such as avidin. See PCT Application No. US 93/06487,
the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference. The application teaches the use
of avidin and avidin homologues as larvicides against insect pests.
[0130] 5. An enzyme inhibitor, for example, a protease or proteinase inhibitor, or an amylase
inhibitor. See, for example, Abe, et al., J Biol. Chem., 262:16793 (1987) (nucleotide
sequence of rice cysteine proteinase inhibitor); Huub, et al., PlantMol. Biol., 21:985 (1993)
(nucleotide sequence of cDNA encoding tobacco proteinase inhibitor I); and Sumitani, et al.,
Biosci. Biotech. Biochem., 57:1243 (1993) (nucleotide sequence of Streptomyces
nitrosporeusa-amylase inhibitor).
[0131] 6. An insect-specific hormone or pheromone, such as an ecdysteroid and juvenile
hormone, a variant thereof, a mimetic based thereon, or an antagonist or agonist thereof. See,
for example, the disclosure by Hammock, et al., Nature, 344:458 (1990), of baculovirus
expression of cloned juvenile hormone esterase, an inactivator of juvenile hormone.
[0132] 7. An insect-specific peptide or neuropeptide which, upon expression, disrupts the
physiology of the affected pest. For example, see the disclosures of Regan, J Biol. Chem.,
269:9 (1994) (expression cloning yields DNA coding for insect diuretic hormone receptor)
and Pratt, et al., Biochem. Biophys. Res. Comm., 163:1243 (1989) (an allostatin is identified
in Diplopterapuntata). See also, U.S. Patent No. 5,266,317 to Tomalski, et al., who disclose
genes encoding insect-specific, paralytic neurotoxins.
[0133] 8. An insect-specific venom produced in nature, by a snake, a wasp, etc. For
example, see Pang, et al., Gene, 116:165 (1992), for disclosure of heterologous expression in
plants of a gene coding for a scorpion insectotoxic peptide.
[0134] 9. An enzyme responsible for a hyper-accumulation of a monoterpene, a
sesquiterpene, a steroid, hydroxamic acid, a phenylpropanoid derivative, or another non
protein molecule with insecticidal activity.
[0135] 10. An enzyme involved in the modification, including the post-translational
modification, of a biologically active molecule; for example, a glycolytic enzyme, a
proteolytic enzyme, a lipolytic enzyme, a nuclease, a cyclase, a transaminase, an esterase, a
                                          Pasze 24 of 62

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
hydrolase, a phosphatase, a kinase, a phosphorylase, a polymerase, an elastase, a chitinase,
and a glucanase, whether natural or synthetic. See PCT Application No. WO 93/02197 in the
name of Scott, et al., which discloses the nucleotide sequence of a callase gene. DNA
molecules which contain chitinase-encoding sequences can be obtained, for example, from
the ATCC under Accession Nos. 39637 and 67152. See also, Kramer, et al., Insect Biochem.
Mol. Biol., 23:691 (1993), who teach the nucleotide sequence of a cDNA encoding tobacco
homworm chitinase, and Kawalleck, et al., PlantMol. Biol., 21:673 (1993), who provide the
nucleotide sequence of the parsley ubi4-2 polyubiquitin gene.
[0136] 11. A molecule that stimulates signal transduction. For example, see the disclosure
by Botella, et al., PlantMol. Biol., 24:757 (1994), of nucleotide sequences for mung bean
calmodulin cDNA clones, and Griess, et al., PlantPhysiol., 104:1467 (1994), who provide
the nucleotide sequence of a maize calmodulin cDNA clone.
[0137] 12. A hydrophobic moment peptide. See PCT Application No. WO 95/16776
(disclosure of peptide derivatives of tachyplesin which inhibit fungal plant pathogens) and
PCT Application No. WO 95/18855 (teaches synthetic antimicrobial peptides that confer
disease resistance), the respective contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.
[0138] 13. A membrane permease, a channel former, or a channel blocker. For example, see
the disclosure of Jaynes, et al., Plant Sci., 89:43 (1993), of heterologous expression of a
cecropin-,   lytic peptide analog to render transgenic tobacco plants resistant to Pseudomonas
solanacearum.
[0139] 14. A viral-invasive protein or a complex toxin derived therefrom. For example, the
accumulation of viral coat proteins in transformed plant cells imparts resistance to viral
infection and/or disease development effected by the virus from which the coat protein gene
is derived, as well as by related viruses. See Beachy, et al., Ann. Rev. Phytopathol., 28:451
(1990). Coat protein-mediated resistance has been conferred upon transformed plants against
alfalfa mosaic virus, cucumber mosaic virus, tobacco streak virus, potato virus X, potato
virus Y, tobacco etch virus, tobacco rattle virus, and tobacco mosaic virus. Id.
[0140] 15. An insect-specific antibody or an immunotoxin derived therefrom. Thus, an
antibody targeted to a critical metabolic function in the insect gut would inactivate an
affected enzyme, killing the insect. See Taylor, et al., Abstract #497, Seventh Int'l
Symposium on Molecular Plant-Microbe Interactions, Edinburgh, Scotland (1994)
(enzymatic inactivation in transgenic tobacco via production of single-chain antibody
fragments).
                                           Pa2e 25 of 62

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
[0141] 16. A virus-specific antibody. See, for example, Tavladoraki, et al., Nature, 366:469
(1993), who show that transgenic plants expressing recombinant antibody genes are protected
from virus attack.
[0142] 17. A developmental-arrestive protein produced in nature by a pathogen or a parasite.
 Thus, fungal endo-a-1, 4-D-polygalacturonases facilitate fungal colonization and plant
nutrient released by solubilizing plant cell wall homo-a-1,4-D-galacturonase. See Lamb, et
al., Bio technology, 10:1436 (1992). The cloning and characterization of a gene which
encodes a bean endopolygalacturonase-inhibiting protein is described by Toubart, et al.,
PlantJ, 2:367 (1992).
[0143] 18. A developmental-arrestive protein produced in nature by a plant. For example,
Logemann, et al., Bio technology, 10:305 (1992), have shown that transgenic plants
expressing the barley ribosome-inactivating gene have an increased resistance to fungal
disease.
[0144] 19. Genes involved in the Systemic Acquired Resistance (SAR) Response and/or the
pathogenesis-related genes. Briggs, S., CurrentBiology, 5(2) (1995).
[0145] 20. Antifungal genes. See Comelissen and Melchers, PlantPhysiol., 101:709-712
(1993); Parijs et al., Planta 183:258-264 (1991) and Bushnell et al., Can. J ofPlantPath.
20(2):137-149 (1998).
[0146] 21. Genes that confer resistance to Phytophthoraroot rot, such as the Rps 1, Rps 1-a,
Rps 1-b, Rps 1-c, Rps 1-d, Rps 1-e, Rps 1-k, Rps 2, Rps 3-a, Rps 3-b, Rps 3-c, Rps 4, Rps 5,
Rps 6, Rps 7 and other Rps genes. See, for example, Shoemaker et al., PhytophthoraRoot
Rot Resistance Gene Mapping in Soybean, Plant Genome IV Conference, San Diego, Calif
(1995).
[0147] Any of the above listed disease or pest resistance genes (1-21) can be introduced into
the claimed broccoli cultivar through a variety of means including but not limited to
transformation and crossing.
B. Genes That Confer Resistance to an Herbicide:
[0148] 1. An herbicide that inhibits the growing point or meristem, such as an imidazolinone
or a sulfonylurea. Exemplary genes in this category code for mutant ALS and AHAS enzyme
as described, for example, by Lee, et al., EMBO J, 7:1241 (1988) and Miki, et al., Theor.
Appl. Genet., 80:449 (1990), respectively.
[0149] 2. Glyphosate (resistance conferred by mutant 5-enolpyruvlshikimate-3-phosphate
synthase (EPSPS) and aroA genes, respectively) and other phosphono compounds, such as
                                          Pa2e 26 of 62

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
glufosinate (phosphinothricin acetyl transferase (PAT), dicamba and Streptomyces
hygroscopicus phosphinothricin-acetyl transferase PAT bar genes), and pyridinoxy or
phenoxy proprionic acids and cyclohexones (ACCase inhibitor-encoding genes). See, for
example, U.S. Patent No. 4,940,835 to Shah, et al., which discloses the nucleotide sequence
of a form of EPSPS which can confer glyphosate resistance. A DNA molecule encoding a
mutant aroA gene can be obtained under ATCC Accession No. 39256, and the nucleotide
sequence of the mutant gene is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,769,061 to Comai. See also,
Umaballava-Mobapathie in Transgenic Research, 8:1, 33-44 (1999) that discloses Lactuca
sativa resistant to glufosinate. European Patent Application No. 0 333 033 to Kumada, et al.,
and U.S. Patent No. 4,975,374 to Goodman, et al., disclose nucleotide sequences of
glutamine synthetase genes which confer resistance to herbicides, such as L
phosphinothricin. The nucleotide sequence of a phosphinothricin-acetyl-transferase gene is
provided in European Application No. 0 242 246 to Leemans, et al. DeGreef, et al.,
Biotechnology, 7:61 (1989), describe the production of transgenic plants that express
chimeric bar genes coding for phosphinothricin acetyl transferase activity. Exemplary of
genes conferring resistance to phenoxy proprionic acids and cyclohexones, such as
sethoxydim and haloxyfop, are the Acc1-S1, Accl-S2, and Accl-S3 genes described by
Marshall, et al., Theor. Apple. Genet., 83:435 (1992).
[0150] 3. An herbicide that inhibits photosynthesis, such as a triazine (psbA and gs+ genes)
and a benzonitrile (nitrilase gene). Przibilla, et al., Plant Cell, 3:169 (1991), describe the
transformation of Chlamydomonas with plasmids encoding mutant psbA genes. Nucleotide
sequences for nitrilase genes are disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,810,648 to Stalker, and DNA
molecules containing these genes are available under ATCC Accession Nos. 53435, 67441,
and 67442. Cloning and expression of DNA coding for a glutathione S-transferase is
described by Hayes, et al., Biochem. J, 285:173 (1992).
[0151] 4. Acetohydroxy acid synthase, which has been found to make plants that express
this enzyme resistant to multiple types of herbicides, has been introduced into a variety of
plants. See Hattori, et al., Mol. Gen. Genet., 246:419 (1995). Other genes that confer
tolerance to herbicides include a gene encoding a chimeric protein of rat cytochrome
P4507A1 and yeast NADPH-cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase (Shiota, et al., PlantPhysiol.,
106:17 (1994)), genes for glutathione reductase and superoxide dismutase (Aono, et al., Plant
Cell Physiol., 36:1687 (1995)), and genes for various phosphotransferases (Datta, et al., Plant
Mol. Biol., 20:619 (1992)).
                                          Pasze 27 of 62

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
[0152] 5. Protoporphyrinogen oxidase (protox) is necessary for the production of
chlorophyll, which is necessary for all plant survival. The protox enzyme serves as the target
for a variety of herbicidal compounds. These herbicides also inhibit growth of all the
different species of plants present, causing their total destruction. The development of plants
containing altered protox activity which are resistant to these herbicides are described in U.S.
Patent Nos. 6,288, 306, 6,282,837, 5,767,373, and International Publication WO 01/12825.
[0153] Any of the above listed herbicide genes (1-5) can be introduced into the claimed
broccoli cultivar through a variety of means including, but not limited to, transformation and
crossing.
C. Genes That Confer or Contribute to a Value-Added Trait, such as:
[0154] 1. Modified fatty acid metabolism, for example, by transforming a plant with an
antisense gene of stearyl-ACP desaturase to increase stearic acid content of the plant. See
Knultzon et al., Proc.Natl. Acad Sci. USA 89:2625 (1992).
[0155] 2. Decreased phytate content - 1) Introduction of a phytase-encoding gene enhances
breakdown of phytate, adding more free phosphate to the transformed plant. For example,
see Van Hartingsveldt et al., Gene 127:87 (1993), for a disclosure of the nucleotide sequence
of an Aspergillus niger phytase gene. 2) A gene could be introduced that reduced phytate
content. See Raboy et al., Maydica 35:383 (1990).
[0156] 3. Increased sweetness of the broccoli by introducing a gene coding for monellin that
elicits a flavor 100,000 times sweeter than sugar on a molar basis. See Penarrubia, et al.,
Biotechnology, 10:561-564 (1992).
[0157] 4. Modified fatty acid metabolism, for example, by introducing into a plant an
antisense gene of stearyl-ACP desaturase to increase stearic acid content of the plant. See
Knultzon, et al., PNAS, 89:2625 (1992).
[0158] 5. Modified carbohydrate composition effected, for example, by introducing into
plants a gene coding for an enzyme that alters the branching pattern of starch. See Shiroza, et
al., J Bacteriol., 170:810 (1988) (nucleotide sequence of Streptococcus mutants
fructosyltransferase gene); Steinmetz, et al., Mol. Gen. Genet., 20:220 (1985) (nucleotide
sequence of Bacillus subtilis levansucrase gene); Pen, et al., Bio/technology, 10:292 (1992)
(production of transgenic plants that express Bacillus lichenifonnis a-amylase); Elliot, et al.,
PlantMol. Biol., 21:515 (1993) (nucleotide sequences of tomato invertase genes); Sogaard, et
al., J Biol. Chem., 268:22480 (1993) (site-directed mutagenesis of barley a-amylase gene);
                                          Pa2e 28 of 62

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
and Fisher, et al., PlantPhysiol., 102:1045 (1993) (maize endosperm starch branching
enzyme II).
[0159] 6. Elevated oleic acid via FAD-2 gene modification and/or decreased linolenic acid
via FAD-3 gene modification. See U.S. Patent Numbers 6,063,947; 6,323,392; and PCT
Publication WO 93/11245.
D. Genes that Control Male-Sterility:
[0160] 1. Introduction of a deacetylase gene under the control of a tapetum-specific
promoter and with the application of the chemical N-Ac-PPT. See International Publication
WO 01/29237.
[0161] 2. Introduction of various stamen-specific promoters. See International Publications
WO 92/13956 and WO 92/13957.
[0162] 3. Introduction of the barnase and the barstar genes. See Paul, et al., PlantMol.
Biol., 19:611-622 (1992).
Methods for Broccoli Transformation
[0163] Numerous methods for plant transformation have been developed, including
biological and physical, plant transformation protocols. See, for example, Miki, et al.,
"Procedures for Introducing Foreign DNA into Plants" in Methods in PlantMolecular
Biology andBiotechnology, Glick and Thompson Eds., CRC Press, Inc., Boca Raton, pp. 67
88 (1993). In addition, expression vectors and in vitro culture methods for plant cell or tissue
transformation and regeneration of plants are available. See, for example, Gruber, et al.,
"Vectors for Plant Transformation" in Methods in PlantMolecular Biology and
Biotechnology, Glick and Thompson Eds., CRC Press, Inc., Boca Raton, pp. 89-119 (1993).
A. Agrobacterium-mediated Transformation:
[0164] One method for introducing an expression vector into plants is based on the natural
transformation system of Agrobacterium. See, for example, Horsch, et al., Science, 227:1229
(1985); Curtis, et al., Journal ofExperimental Botany, 45:279, 1441-1449 (1994); Torres, et
al., Plant Cell Tissue and Organ Culture, 34:3, 279-285 (1993); and Dinant, et al., Molecular
Breeding, 3:1, 75-86 (1997). A. tumefaciens and A. rhizogenes are plant pathogenic soil
bacteria which genetically transform plant cells. The Ti and Ri plasmids of A. tumefaciens
and A. rhizogenes, respectively, carry genes responsible for genetic transformation of the
plant. See, for example, Kado, C.I., Crit.Rev. Plant Sci., 10:1 (1991). Descriptions of
Agrobacterium vector systems and methods for Agrobacterium-mediatedgene transfer are
                                         Pa2e 29 of 62

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
provided by Gruber, et al., supra, Miki, et al., supra, and Moloney, et al., Plant Cell Rep.,
8:23 8 (1989). See also, U.S. Patent No. 5,591,616 issued January 7, 1997.
B. Direct Gene Transfer:
[0165] Several methods of plant transformation collectively referred to as direct gene transfer
have been developed as an alternative to Agrobacterium-mediatedtransformation. A
generally applicable method of plant transformation is microprojectile-mediated
transformation wherein DNA is carried on the surface of microprojectiles measuring 1 p.im to
4 pam. The expression vector is introduced into plant tissues with a biolistic device that
accelerates the microprojectiles to speeds of 300 m/s to 600 m/s which is sufficient to
penetrate plant cell walls and membranes. Russell, D.R., et al., Plant Cell Rep., 12 (3, Jan.),
165-169 (1993); Aragao, F.J.L., et al., PlantMol. Biol., 20 (2, Oct.), 357-359 (1992); Aragao,
F.J.L., et al., Plant Cell Rep., 12 (9, July), 483-490 (1993); Aragao, Theor. Appl. Genet.,
93:142-150 (1996); Kim, J., Minamikawa, T., Plant Sci., 117:131-138 (1996); Sanford, et al.,
Part.Sci. Technol., 5:27 (1987); Sanford, J.C., Trends Biotech., 6:299 (1988); Klein, et al.,
Biotechnology, 6:559-563 (1988); Sanford, J.C., Physiol. Plant, 7:206 (1990); Klein, et al.,
Biotechnology, 10:268 (1992).
[0166] Another method for physical delivery of DNA to plants is sonication of target cells.
Zhang, et al., Bio/technology, 9:996 (1991). Alternatively, liposome and spheroplast
SWD8732 have been used to introduce expression vectors into plants. Deshayes, et al.,
EMVBO J, 4:2731 (1985) and Christou, et al., PNAS, 84:3962 (1987). Direct uptake of DNA
into protoplasts using CaCl2 precipitation, polyvinyl alcohol, or poly-L-ornithine has also
been reported. Hain, et al., Mol. Gen. Genet., 199:161 (1985) and Draper, et al., Plant Cell
Physiol., 23:451 (1982). Electroporation of protoplasts and whole cells and tissues have also
been described. Saker, M., Kuhne, T., Biologia Plantarum,40(4):507-514 (1997/98); Donn,
et al., In Abstracts of VIIth International Congress on Plant Cell and Tissue Culture IAPTC,
A2-38, p. 53 (1990); D'Halluin, et al., Plant Cell, 4:1495-1505 (1992); and Spencer, et al.,
PlantMol. Biol., 24:51-61 (1994). See also Chupean, et al., Bio/technology, 7:5, 503-508
(1989).
[0167] Additional methods include, but are not limited to, expression vectors introduced into
plant tissues using a direct gene transfer method, such as microprojectile-mediated delivery,
DNA injection, electroporation, and the like. More preferably, expression vectors are
introduced into plant tissues by using either microproj ectile-mediated delivery with a biolistic
                                            Pa2e 30 of 62

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
device or by using Agrobacterium-mediatedtransformation. Transformed plants obtained
with the protoplasm of the invention are intended to be within the scope of this invention.
[0168] Following transformation of broccoli target tissues, expression of the above-described
selectable marker genes allows for preferential selection of transformed cells, tissues and/or
plants, using regeneration and selection methods now well known in the art.
[0169] The foregoing methods for transformation would typically be used for producing a
transgenic line. The transgenic line could then be crossed with another (non-transformed or
transformed) line in order to produce a new transgenic broccoli, such as a new transgenic
purple baby broccoli. Alternatively, a genetic trait which has been engineered into a
particular broccoli cultivar using the foregoing transformation techniques could be introduced
into another line using traditional backcrossing techniques that are well known in the plant
breeding arts. For example, a backcrossing approach could be used to move an engineered
trait from a public, non-elite inbred line into an elite inbred line, or from an inbred line
containing a foreign gene in its genome into an inbred line or lines which do not contain that
gene. As used herein, "crossing" can refer to a simple X by Y cross, or the process of
backcrossing, depending on the context.
Gene Conversions
[0170] When the term "Brassicaoleracea plant" or "broccoli plant" or "purple baby broccoli
plant" is used in the context of the present invention, this also includes any gene conversions
of that variety. The term "gene converted plant" as used herein refers to those broccoli or
purple baby broccoli plants which are developed by backcrossing, genetic engineering, or
mutation, wherein essentially all of the desired morphological and physiological
characteristics of a variety are recovered in addition to the one or more genes transferred into
the variety via the backcrossing technique, genetic engineering, or mutation. Backcrossing
methods can be used with the present invention to improve or introduce a characteristic into
the variety. The term "backcrossing" as used herein refers to the repeated crossing of a
hybrid progeny back to the recurrent parent, i.e., backcrossing 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or more
times to the recurrent parent. The parental broccoli plant which contributes the gene for the
desired characteristic is termed the "nonrecurrent" or "donor parent." This terminology
refers to the fact that the nonrecurrent parent is used one time in the backcross protocol and
therefore does not recur. The parental broccoli plant to which the gene or genes from the
nonrecurrent parent are transferred is known as the recurrent parent as it is used for several
rounds in the backcrossing protocol. Poehlman & Sleper (1994) and Fehr (1993). In a
                                           Page 31 of 62

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
typical backcross protocol, the original variety of interest (recurrent parent) is crossed to a
second variety (nonrecurrent parent) that carries the gene of interest to be transferred. The
resulting progeny from this cross are then crossed again to the recurrent parent and the
process is repeated until a purple baby broccoli plant is obtained wherein essentially all of the
desired morphological and physiological characteristics of the recurrent parent are recovered
in the converted plant, in addition to the transferred gene from the nonrecurrent parent.
[0171] The selection of a suitable recurrent parent is an important step for a successful
backcrossing procedure. The goal of a backcross protocol is to alter or substitute a trait or
characteristic in the original line. To accomplish this, a gene of the recurrent cultivar is
modified or substituted with the desired gene from the nonrecurrent parent, while retaining
essentially all of the rest of the desired genetic, and therefore the desired physiological and
morphological characteristics, of the original line. The choice of the particular nonrecurrent
parent will depend on the purpose of the backcross. One of the major purposes is to add
some commercially desirable, agronomically important trait to the plant. The exact
backcrossing protocol will depend on the characteristic or trait being altered to determine an
appropriate testing protocol. Although backcrossing methods are simplified when the
characteristic being transferred is a dominant allele, a recessive allele may also be
transferred. In this instance it may be necessary to introduce a test of the progeny to
determine if the desired characteristic has been successfully transferred.
[0172] Many gene traits have been identified that are not regularly selected in the
development of a new line but that can be improved by backcrossing techniques. Gene traits
may or may not be transgenic. Examples of these traits include, but are not limited to, male
sterility, modified fatty acid metabolism, modified carbohydrate metabolism, herbicide
resistance, resistance for bacterial, fungal, or viral disease, insect resistance, enhanced
nutritional quality, industrial usage, yield stability, and yield enhancement. These genes are
generally inherited through the nucleus. Several of these gene traits are described in U.S.
Patent Nos. 5,777,196, 5,948,957, and 5,969,212, the disclosures of which are specifically
hereby incorporated by reference.
Locus conversions of purple baby broccoli, ASOO1P, CMS ASOO1P, AS002P, CMS AS002P,
K1-703 and K4-706
[0173] Purple baby broccoli plants, including but not limited to K1-703 and K4-706, and
Brassica oleracea lines AS001P, CMS AS001P, AS002P, and CMS AS002P represent
new base genetic varieties into which a new locus may be introgressed. Direct
                                            Pa2e 32 of 62

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
transformation and backcrossing represent two important methods that can be used to
accomplish such an introgression. The term locus conversion is used to designate the
product of such an introgression. A locus conversion of purple baby broccoli and
Brassicaoleraceaplants, including but not limited to K1 -703 and K4-706, and lines
AS001P, CMS AS001P, AS002P, and CMS AS002P will retain the genetic integrity of
purple baby broccoli, including but not limited to K1 -703 and K4-706, and lines
AS001P, CMS AS001P, AS002P, and CMS AS002P and will comprise at least 90%,
       92     93    94
91%,      %,     %,    %, 9 5 %, 96
                                    %, 97
                                          %,  98
                                                 % or   99
                                                           % of the genetic identity of purple
baby broccoli plants, including but not limited to K1-703 and K4-706, and lines AS001P,
CMS AS001P, AS002P, and CMS AS002P as determined by using SSR markers or SNP
markers. A locus conversion can be a native trait or a transgenic trait.
Tissue Culture
[0174] Further reproduction of the variety can occur by tissue culture and regeneration.
Tissue culture of various tissues of broccoli and regeneration of plants therefrom is well
known and widely published. For example, reference may be had to Kumar, P., "Clonal
Propagation in Broccoli (BrassicaoleraceaL. var. italica): Plant Tissue Culture,", Lambert
Academic Publishing (2012); Anderson et al., J Amer. Soc. Hort.Sci., 102:69-73 (1977);
Kim, et al., J Plant Biology, 45(3):177-181 (2002); Teng, et al., HortScience, 27:9,
1030-1032 (1992); Teng, et al., HortScience, 28:6, 669-1671 (1993); Zhang, et al., Journal of
Genetics and Breeding, 46:3, 287-290 (1992); Webb, et al., Plant Cell Tissue and Organ
Culture, 38:1, 77-79 (1994); Curtis, et al., Journal ofExperimental Botany, 45:279, 1441
1449 (1994); Nagata, et al., Journalforthe American Societyfor HorticulturalScience,
125:6, 669-672 (2000); and Ibrahim, et al., Plant Cell Tissue and Organ Culture, 28(2), 139
145 (1992). It is clear from the literature that the state of the art is such that these methods of
obtaining plants are routinely used and have a very high rate of success. Thus, another aspect
of this invention is to provide cells which upon growth and differentiation produce purple
baby broccoli plants.
[0175] As used herein, the term "tissue culture" indicates a composition comprising isolated
cells of the same or a different type or a collection of such cells organized into parts of a
plant. Exemplary types of tissue cultures are protoplasts, calli, meristematic cells, and plant
cells that can generate tissue culture that are intact in plants or parts of plants, such as leaves,
pollen, embryos, roots, root tips, anthers, pistils, flowers, seeds, petioles, suckers, and the
like. Means for preparing and maintaining plant tissue culture are well known in the art. By
                                           Pa2e 33 of 62

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
way of example, a tissue culture comprising organs has been used to produce regenerated
plants. U.S. Patent Nos. 5,959,185, 5,973,234, and 5,977,445 describe certain techniques, the
disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.
Additional Breeding Methods
[0176] This invention also is directed to methods for producing a purple baby broccoli plant
by crossing a first parent Brassica oleraceaplant with a second parent Brassica oleracea
plant wherein the first or second parent Brassica oleracea plant is a plant of Brassica
oleracea lines CMS AS001P, AS001P, CMS AS002P and AS002P or purple baby broccoli.
Thus, any such methods using Brassica oleracea lines CMS AS001P, AS001P, CMS
AS002P and AS002P or purple baby broccoli are part of this invention: selfing, backcrosses,
hybrid production, crosses to populations, and the like. All plants produced using Brassica
oleracea lines CMS AS001P, AS001P, CMS AS002P and AS002P or purple baby broccoli as
at least one parent are within the scope of this invention, including those developed from
cultivars derived from Brassica oleracea lines CMS AS001P, AS001P, CMS AS002P and
AS002P or purple baby broccoli. Advantageously, these broccoli could be used in crosses
with other, different, broccoli plants to produce the first generation (Fi) broccoli hybrid seeds
and plants with superior characteristics. The plants of the invention can also be used for
transformation where exogenous genes are introduced and expressed by the cultivar of the
invention. Genetic variants created either through traditional breeding methods using
Brassica oleracea lines CMS AS001P, AS001P, CMS AS002P and AS002P or purple baby
broccoli or through transformation of Brassica oleracea lines CMS AS001P, AS001P, CMS
AS002P and AS002P or purple baby broccoli by any of a number of protocols known to
those of skill in the art are intended to be within the scope of this invention.
[0177] The following describes breeding methods that may be used with Brassica oleracea
lines CMS AS001P, AS001P, CMS AS002P and AS002P or purple baby broccoli in the
development of further broccoli plants. One such embodiment is a method for developing
Brassica oleracea lines CMS AS001P, AS001P, CMS AS002P and AS002P or purple baby
broccoli progeny Brassica oleracea plants in a Brassica oleracea plant breeding program
comprising: obtaining the Brassica oleracea plant, or a part thereof, of Brassica oleracea
lines CMS AS001P, AS001P, CMS AS002P and AS002P or purple baby broccoli, utilizing
said plant or plant part as a source of breeding material, and selecting a Brassica oleracea
line progeny plant with molecular markers in common with Brassica oleracea lines CMS
AS001P, AS001P, CMS AS002P and AS002P or purple baby broccoli. Breeding steps that
                                           Pa2e 34 of 62

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
may be used in the Brassica oleracea plant breeding program include pedigree breeding,
backcrossing, mutation breeding, and recurrent selection. In conjunction with these steps,
techniques such as RFLP-enhanced selection, genetic marker enhanced selection (for
example, SSR markers), and the making of double haploids may be utilized.
[0178] Another method involves producing a population of Brassica oleracea lines CMS
AS001P, AS001P, CMS AS002P and AS002P or purple baby broccoli progeny broccoli
plants, comprising crossing Brassicaoleracea lines CMS AS001P, AS001P, CMS AS002P
and AS002P or purple baby broccoli with another broccoli plant, thereby producing a
population of broccoli plants, which, on average, derive 50% of their alleles from Brassica
oleracea lines CMS AS001P, AS001P, CMS AS002P and AS002P or purple baby broccoli.
A plant of this population may be selected and repeatedly selfed or sibbed with a broccoli
cultivar resulting from these successive filial generations. One embodiment of this invention
is the broccoli cultivar produced by this method and that has obtained at least 50% of its
alleles from Brassica oleracea lines CMS AS001P, AS001P, CMS AS002P and AS002P or
purple baby broccoli.
[0179] One of ordinary skill in the art of plant breeding would know how to evaluate the
traits of two plant varieties to determine if there is no significant difference between the two
traits expressed by those varieties. For example, see Fehr and Walt, Principlesof Cultivar
Development, pp. 261-286 (1987). Thus the invention includes Brassica oleracea lines CMS
AS001P, AS001P, CMS AS002P and AS002P or purple baby broccoli progeny plants
comprising a combination of at least two Brassica oleracea lines CMS AS001P, AS001P,
CMS AS002P and AS002P or purple baby broccoli traits, so that said progeny plant is not
significantly different for said traits than Brassica oleracea lines CMS AS001P, AS001P,
CMS AS002P and AS002P or purple baby broccoli as determined at the 5% significance
level when grown in the same environmental conditions. Using techniques described herein,
molecular markers may be used to identify said progeny plant as a Brassica oleracea line
CMS AS001P, AS001P, CMS AS002P or AS002P or purple baby broccoli progeny plant.
Mean trait values may be used to determine whether trait differences are significant, and
preferably the traits are measured on plants grown under the same environmental conditions.
Once such a variety is developed, its value is substantial since it is important to advance the
germplasm base as a whole in order to maintain or improve traits such as yield, disease
resistance, pest resistance, and plant performance in extreme environmental conditions.
                                            Pa2e 35 of 62

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
[0180] Progeny of Brassica oleracea lines CMS AS001P, AS001P, CMS AS002P and
AS002P or purple baby broccoli may also be characterized through their filial relationship
with lines CMS AS001P, CMS AS002P and AS002P or purple baby broccoli, as for example,
being within a certain number of breeding crosses of lines CMS AS001P, AS001P, CMS
AS002P and AS002P or purple baby broccoli. A breeding cross is a cross made to introduce
new genetics into the progeny, and is distinguished from a cross, such as a self or a sib cross,
made to select among existing genetic alleles. The lower the number of breeding crosses in
the pedigree, the closer the relationship between lines CMS AS001P, AS001P, CMS AS002P
and AS002P or purple baby broccoli and its progeny. For example, progeny produced by the
methods described herein may be within 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 breeding crosses of lines CMS
AS001P, AS001P, CMS AS002P and AS002P or purple baby broccoli.
[0181] As used herein, the term "plant" includes plant cells, plant protoplasts, plant cell
tissue cultures from which broccoli plants can be regenerated, plant calli, plant clumps, and
plant cells that are intact in plants or parts of plants, such as leaves, pollen, embryos,
cotyledons, hypocotyl, roots, root tips, anthers, pistils, flowers, ovules, seeds, stems, and the
like.
                                            EXAMPLES
Example 1. Development of parental lines AS001P and CMS AS001P
[0182] In 2000, an Fi was made from a cross between broccoli line 194-6-2 and Broccoli OP
Purple. 194-6-2 is a doubled haploid broccoli line bred by using common broccoli and gai
lan. 194-6-2 is the parent of Asparation@ baby broccoli, which is green in color and has
many side stems with excellent texture. Broccoli OP Purple is a selected line from European
traditional OP broccoli variety which has good purple color on its stem. In 2001,      F2
population and back-cross population to 194-6-2 were made. In 2002, selected plants from
the F2 population and the back-cross population were crossed respectively. Further two times
back-crossed to 194-6-2 and two times sib-cross were added to this population to improve its
purple color, number of side shoots and texture. In 2010, the line which has purple color,
many side shoots and good texture was obtained and the line was named as AS001P for
maintainer and CMS AS001P for CMS type. CMS AS001P is used as the female parent for
purple baby broccoli K1-703 and 12KA069, and ASOO1P is used as the male parent for
purple baby broccoli K4-706.
                                            Pa2e 36 of 62

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
Example 2. Development of parental lines AS002P and CMS AS002P
[0183] In 2004, an Fi was made from a cross between H669 and No47388. H669 is common
broccoli and the parent of Asparation@ baby broccoli. No47388 is an F3 line of a purple
single head broccoli in Sakata. In 2005, sib-cross was made between selected plants. In 2010,
the broccoli line which has purple, single head with a long floret stem was obtained, and this
line was named AS002P. AS002P is used as the male parent for purple baby broccoli Kl
703 and 12KA077. CMS AS002P is the cytoplasmic male sterile version of AS002P and is
used as the female parent of purple baby broccoli K4-706.
Example 3. Creation of purple baby broccoli K1-703
[0184] In 2011, an Fi test cross was made between lines CMS AS001P and AS002P, and the
Fi purple baby broccoli was named K1-703. From 2012, trials had been conducted in Japan,
UK and US. Purple baby broccoli K1-703 has better purple color on its stem, much more
tender texture and much earlier maturity than other baby broccoli or traditional purple
sprouting broccoli varieties.
Example 4. Method for producing purple baby broccoli
[0185] A method for producing a purple baby broccoli plant, said method comprising:
            a.  Crossing a broccoli plant with a gai-lan plant to produce an Fi broccoli x gai
                lan hybrid plant;
            b.  Crossing said Fi broccoli x gai-lan hybrid plant with a Brassica oleracea plant
                having purple head and purple stems to produce further Fi plants;
            c.  Selecting further Fi plants having purple head and purple stem color to
                produce a broccoli x gai-lan parent plant having purple head and purple stem
                color;
            d. Crossing a broccoli plant and a purple head broccoli plant to produce a
                broccoli parent plant having a purple head with a long floret stem;
            e.  Crossing said broccoli x gai-lan parent plant having purple head and purple
                stem color with said broccoli parent plant having purple head with long floret
                stem to produce a purple baby broccoli plant.
[0186] In another aspect, the method further comprises selection for plants having a high
number of side shoots.
[0187] In another aspect, the method further comprises one or more backcrosses of said
further Fi plants to said Fi broccoli x gai-lan hybrid plant or sib-crosses to produce resultant
plants. In another aspect, the method further comprises selecting said resultant plants based
                                          Pa2e 37 of 62

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
on purple color to produce a broccoli x gai-lan parent plant having purple head and purple
stem color. In another aspect, the method further comprises selection for plants having a high
number of side shoots.
[0188] Although the above Examples 1 and 2 describe some particular broccoli lines used in
the method for producing purple baby broccoli, the lines described are examples and the
method is not limited to those particular lines. Any broccoli, gai-lan, Brassica oleracea plant
having purple head and purple stems, or purple head broccoli may be used in the method to
produce purple baby broccoli.
Example 5. Creation of additional purple baby broccoli plants
[0189] Representative purple baby broccoli plants described herein were produced by the
method of the present invention and include, but are not limited to, K1-703, K4-706,
12KA075sis, 12KA077 and 12KA069. Purple baby broccoli K4-706 was produced by
crossing parent lines CMS AS002P x ASOO1P. Purple baby broccoli 12KA075sis was
produced by crossing parent plants BoBopBl./BoBopBl.Bo.-sib-1-2-2-3-1-1 x
Bo47388Sib.Bo./Bo47388Sib.Bo.-3-sib-2-2. Purple baby broccoli 12KA077 was produced
by crossing parent plants BoBopBl./BoBopBl.Bo.-sib-1-2-2-3-1-1 x AS002P. Purple baby
broccoli 12KA069 was produced by crossing parent plants CMS ASOO1P x BoBopBl./669
47388Sib.-1-3.
                                            TABLES
[0190] Tables 1 - 2 show the results of trials planted in 2013 and 2014 in Salinas, California
comparing the phenotypic and morphological characteristics of hybrid purple baby broccoli
plants (K1-703, 12KA075sis, 12KA077, 12KA069, and K4-706), parental lines (194-6
2CMS (U.S. Patent No. 6,274,793), CMS ASOO1P, ASOO1P, AS002P, CMS H669, H669,
194-6-2), and similar commercial broccoli varieties (Aspabroc (baby broccoli), Santee,
Purple Peacock, Summer Purple Sprouting). In Table 1, the trial was sown on March 27,
2013 and transplant was April 29, 2013, and in Tables 2A and 2B, the trial was sown on May
5, 2014 and transplant was June 10, 2014. In the Tables, 'NA' indicates data not available.
                                         Pa2e 38 of 62

                rn
          U)                      o)                                                              r
                                 rnq
                                            000            'A      6  l       m                 l     0
                            rnq
                                                              0 0        rl                        00c
                rn
                Cl0                              0      -         0      In3
fl  ~     oU            u    ~  5r-     0      -6                 o                                 n
                                                                                                        0
       U)3       rn
      C13                  -t     003        -                             un     C0Cl13
 -T
                 00    r                                                                     p0
             cz
                                      0   0  0              0     Cl    l~n        -     -        oOCl      C
                                                   cz)               un       $mt          p
                 0S
                  u
                    Cu                                      0     0                                 l     '
                          Cr'
                                                       Szu

                                                                           NN
                                      --                                                  -               ~m
                                       00      00                      mC
          u
   cl        ci-                      In              c   rm     c                                   r.-;     m   mD-~ C
      ti)00                    0                                          O   C '      00    -         fl
                                                              85     e
                -1-                                       m                         mq
         c CAti                                                            C                i
                     Ci13
                 N                    0      0                             m        m
o--                                                                       0         N
                   Ci)-~~c             rj4q        N                        f        f                    110
                                                        P      pczc                                             0
                                                                         m        o
                               0                                                                 Ucj
                                i
                           '-U~~~~~~c              0- e            I                           -     mm   Z
          uA                      cz        u     eN       zu

                                  oc
                                      Nqm                  r
5q       I- Aq       'n                   -c    - c        ri
                 oio
                             Cr-    0
      cl                    0
                               Cr
                         CC                  r
               0                  m
   00       00                                 -   0 E3m
                       3   oP-m                          m    )

                            cn               m>                             n
                            r--             rn-                 00o-                      1
                            u
          N         mNN      N
            000
                     u>      Nn                                            c
            U                                   cn                                        -      0
   -      I
                    0>       N                                   ocd
00                O            u       -m              -m-               o       -    00
                    -c  0        oc                                                      -oo
                    0>       N                         oo
                    cn    8-cn                                             -1            -1
                                                               A                        -cc
              u                                                          c               NzC3pu
                                                                           2'                    g
     "Bou      o    cn    on                $      -1-    -     -1       uc   e ne     ou- 1
       --       u oN0    uo s               '1o          c    0 x0   cn2        -   0       o - 00
                cn Cu                  Cc
                                  -,A,
                                  c       ~           cn
                                u                                                     0         z
                                                       0    u
                   C
                  Cu                          n                                   z

                                   oK   r
       Ci)                               r)    cnCN
                 -t
zcz
                    C/)
                  r
                          0c            m
                                          oD                 r)l
                  r
                                   oc~f r)r)i~
                  r
                                               -)            cn
       Ci)
   Cd
                                                      0z            0 )
                                                          rn rn
                 0z                                 u
   cl)           ri
            r)cz
                             -tl
                                                      0      0z
   P4    't             c      In-             2:     0a~    0U~
                                                              a  '
                                                                 CA

                                0
                            -~~~~r                  rn    0                N   ci  C
                                                  oc
                                                                rnq
                                                                   0 0
      (NI      -q       -          0     -
                                         0'  crq                   N
                                                      r-1
    C  q                        q                      ol            cn
          .. o                               U
                                              Nc    C,
                                                      -cz
                                                  00
o d            -                CO        I0
                 Ci                                AClA               mf   ClA
                          >                   C't
                  -cotc
                                     9Cl  u        ucl        0  0     0 0
                                                          C-n              rnn  --   01

                                 C
                                 ocC
           _                   ocC
    rC
    r-                         rn
        fn
                             :q                  m
                                         <C~
                               In
       00
                           U    U                             /
   000
00              mr-n cr rn                   m r   - -0 m - )
                                 cc
             cz              $00     u6u   u

                                                     -    n r'    -q   Cl   Cl
                      0q         rn 0q                                       mJ
                    -                                    -  r~   rq    rq
r-        Cd                           O
                                     cn'z
      ct~
                                                                               C,3
   oq                    m 't -)  -t             m '   -       M     m    m    M
                                          'cCz
               0t0z                            -1-       -   z   rn    c     z
             sm-            L                                    u6~r

                       r-r
      4                                                      r
                                                             oc
            fn                                   Cr
                           CCA     CC -  CA                                          CCl
      Cl           -       C-     Cl-     A                             CAA                               I-Cmcq
                oo
                                                        CA
   u   q                      -q   cqc
                                                                             CA~
     fn                                       -0          -0      o
r-                                     q   )c    CA          CAc
                                 14                                                                              4
                                  9C
                                                 0>A         rn
     -0                                          rn                       7-    At
             0z                                                                                      CA      C,
       o~~L      Cl-                      t       --                                   f  >C                >lC~
                   Cl       -  Cl- lq                                 -m      t    u    f       rfl mA     C
                      U                                CA cj             cz                          UZCA
                           u~                                                0c
                                                     0          0   i                        r4

  o   -          -           0
                                 CNN
                 <0
r         u     -22         -a
                   CmA~m
       <z       Qg
    CNi.           <c~c
m    e             og
                       N     0a
              C
     oo0uc
                                000
            -                        C)
                        S   0.
                    N     2

                                        'c    c
              N-A
                             cn               .
   -~C          A
                 Cd                         LCn        C-A
Cl
         c     cC
       N    C
               czI
            CrII
                 U z~T
                                                   lii
                       U~~Jq             c    r
         Cz
              cqcf
                                tz~
                                        U~zo~zo
                                        C16   ocC~
                       ~II          lii

                                                 -c      rr-rm
                                                 000
     m     -q~       ,     o    P     ~      n   cK
                                                 rq      rq     rq
                                                       0 0q
                          r\Doc     n C/c                ri                          m
oo
           cz       qcrrn
   -1      11    1 1a'1      0 A            -r F         o6         -    r  i   r
       -cc                                u
                                                     -a      -a
             -40
                                  C                  n             0- --   Cfl PCfII   l

                          Nq                                   m
= 0  If)                      n
  Cd "
             Cd-                                    -i
                                Co
         Cin
                                         iit
                                                       rtr
                 tjin
                                                -          8i0
                             -        in     --   i
                             u
                    tipi)          i)

                                                         N e
              (N                                                                NInN                                 N
          40                    0
                                                                                       N
               Nc                c
               Ni*l-(                                                                              (N(N      (N
                      -         -NUN
                                             N                                  N      N               N      N6N      C
  ONc
                                             N         U~                       N     (N      -        N      Nf   N
                                                       cn
                                                       cc                       N     (N      N       (N     (N
                                  (N                                                   N               NANIN
             ONc
                                                         n                N(||
T         e~~n                0 0       90-                              3I                                2
                                                      00 U
      c.0
                                          N                        m           (N(NN.                             (N
                              0 0
                        *~   'A     ~       -1-                C/)                    (      (         u1N
                                                                                                       N     (
                                                       <czz                             zz
                           ~         i_ u                                                 o,   o
                       oq                    m~a 'tr)        m       ' t                m        A       A      M rq

     ctA                                                                      C)~A
U                                     c                                          c
  in                                  mI                                        CR
         oo
                               CA     C
                       OIS
                           -0            -00o
                             u                                                  CA
                u~~            -1     c                                4
                                    u                          m
                                              oi cz                        c:   00
                                  0    0      c
            u~                                           ci
                    cz                              00z  -zuU uu                u  U
         cz      I                                               N   0   1
              _z                                      II           U
                     ciu                 cn               cnd

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
[0191] Purple baby broccoli, such as purple baby broccoli K1-703, K4-706, 12KA075sis,
12KA077 and 12KA069, is most similar to traditional baby broccoli (Aspabroc) and variety
Purple Peacock. When purple baby broccoli is compared to baby broccoli, as shown in
Tables 1 and 2B, purple baby broccoli K1-703 has a purple stem color of RHS N187A, wider
leaves with an average width of 22 cm, a blue-green foliage color, broad elliptic leaves, a
purple head color and short pedicels, whereas baby broccoli has a green stem color of RHS
146B, thinner leaves with an average width of 16 cm, a dark green foliage color, elliptic
leaves, a blue-green head color and medium pedicels. When purple baby broccoli is
compared to Purple Peacock, also as shown in Tables 1 and 2B, purple baby broccoli K1-703
has wider leaves with an average width of 22 cm, a blue-green foliage color, broad elliptic
leaves, a purple head color of RHS N187A and N138A, short pedicels and purple head
leaves, whereas Purple Peacock has thinner leaves with an average width of 12 - 15 cm,
purple-green foliage, narrow elliptic leaves, a head color closest to RHS NI 87A with some
RHS 137A, or N79 (or N92A), medium pedicels and green head leaves.
[0192] The use of the terms "a," "an," and "the," and similar referents in the context of
describing the invention (especially in the context of the following claims) are to be
construed to cover both the singular and the plural, unless otherwise indicated herein or
clearly contradicted by context. The terms "comprising," "having," "including," and
"containing" are to be construed as open-ended terms (i.e., meaning "including, but not
limited to,") unless otherwise noted. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely
intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value
falling within the range, unless otherwise indicated herein, and each separate value is
incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. For example, if
the range 10-15 is disclosed, then 11, 12, 13, and 14 are also disclosed. All methods
described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or
otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples, or exemplary
language (e.g., "such as") provided herein, is intended merely to better illuminate the
invention and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the invention unless otherwise
claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non-claimed
element as essential to the practice of the invention.
                                          Pa2e 54 of 62

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
                                    DEPOSIT INFORMATION
[0193] Deposits of the Brassica oleracea seed of this invention are maintained by Sakata
Seed America, Inc., 18095 Serene Drive, Morgan Hill, California 95037, U.S.A. Access to
these deposits will be available during the pendency of this application to persons determined
by the Commissioner of Patents and Trademarks to be entitled thereto under 37 CFR 1.14
and 35 USC 122. Upon allowance of any claims in this application, all restrictions on the
availability to the public of the varieties will be irrevocably removed by affording access to
deposits of at least 2,500 seeds of the same varieties with the American Type Culture
Collection (ATCC), 10801 University Boulevard, Manassas, Va. 20110 or National
Collections of Industrial, Food and Marine Bacteria (NCIMB), 23 St Machar Drive,
Aberdeen, Scotland, AB24 3RY, United Kingdom.
[0194] While a number of exemplary aspects and embodiments have been discussed above,
those of skill in the art will recognize certain modifications, permutations, additions, and
sub-combinations thereof It is therefore intended that the following appended claims and
claims hereafter introduced are interpreted to include all such modifications, permutations,
additions, and sub-combinations as are within their true spirit and scope.
[0195] Deposits of the Brassica oleracea seeds of CMS ASOO1P, ASOO1P, CMS AS002P
and AS002P of this invention were also made under the terms of the Budapest Treaty at the
American Type Culture Collection (ATCC), Manassas, Virginia, having ATCC Accession
Numbers PTA-                  , PTA-_          _, PTA-,           and PTA-,            for patent
purposes, by the applicant on                .
                                            Pa2e 55 of 62

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
                                             CLAIMS
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1.     A seed, plant, plant part, or cell of purple baby broccoli having purple stems, wherein
       said plant contains in its genetic background broccoli and gai-lan.
2.     A method for producing a purple baby broccoli plant, said method comprising:
           (a) Crossing a broccoli plant with a gai-lan plant to produce an Fi broccoli x gai
               lan hybrid plant;
           (b) Crossing said Fi broccoli x gai-lan hybrid plant with a Brassicaoleracea
               plant having purple head and purple stems to produce further Fi plants;
           (c) Selecting further Fi plants having purple head and purple stem color to
               produce a broccoli x gai-lan parent plant having purple head and purple stem
               color;
           (d) Crossing a broccoli plant and a purple head broccoli plant to produce a
               broccoli parent plant having a purple head with a long floret stem;
           (e) Crossing said broccoli x gai-lan parent plant having purple head and purple
               stem color with said broccoli parent plant having purple head with long floret
               stem to produce a purple baby broccoli plant.
3.     The method of claim 2, wherein the method further comprises selecting plants for a
       high number of side shoots.
4.     The method of claim 2, wherein the method further comprises one or more
       backcrosses of said further Fi plants to said Fi broccoli x gai-lan hybrid plant or sib
       crosses to produce resultant plants.
5.     The method of claim 4, wherein the method further comprises selecting said resultant
       plants based on purple color to produce a broccoli x gai-lan parent plant having purple
       head and purple stem color.
6.     The purple baby broccoli plant produced by the method of claim 2.
7.     The purple baby broccoli plant produced by the method of claim 5.
8.     The purple baby broccoli plant of claim 1 further comprising a locus conversion.
9.     The purple baby broccoli plant of claim 7 further comprising a locus conversion.
10.    A Brassica oleracea plant or seed comprising at least one set of the chromosomes of
       line CMS ASOO1P, wherein a representative sample of seed of said line was deposited
       under ATCC Accession No. PTA-_            .
11.    The plant or seed of claim 10, which is inbred.
                                          Pa2e 56 of 62

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
12.    A tissue culture of cells produced from the Brassica oleracea plant of claim 11,
       wherein said cells of tissue culture are produced from a plant part selected from the
       group consisting of embryos, meristematic cells, callus, pollen, leaves, anthers, stems,
       petioles, roots, root tips, fruits, seeds, flowers, cotyledons, and hypocotyls.
13.    A Brassica oleracea plant regenerated from the tissue culture of claim 12, wherein
       the plant has all of the morphological and physiological characteristics of line CMS
       AS001P.
14.    The plant or seed of claim 10, which is hybrid.
15.    The plant or seed of claim 11 further comprising a locus conversion, wherein said
       plant or seed otherwise has all of the morphological and physiological characteristics
       of line CMS AS001P.
16.    A tissue culture of cells produced from the plant of claim 15, wherein said cells of
       tissue culture are produced from a plant part selected from the group consisting of
       embryos, meristematic cells, callus, pollen, leaves, anthers, stems, petioles, roots, root
       tips, fruits, seeds, flowers, cotyledons, and hypocotyls.
17.    A plant regenerated from the tissue culture of claim 16, wherein the plant has the
       locus conversion and otherwise all of the morphological and physiological
       characteristics of line CMS ASOO1P.
18.    A seed produced by crossing the plant of claim 15 with itself or a different Brassica
       oleracea plant.
19.    A plant produced by growing the seed of claim 18.
20.    A Brassica oleracea plant or seed comprising at least one set of the chromosomes of
       line ASOO1P, wherein a representative sample of seed of said line was deposited
       under ATCC Accession No. PTA-_               .
21.    The plant or seed of claim 20, which is inbred.
22.    A tissue culture of cells produced from the Brassica oleracea plant of claim 21,
       wherein said cells of tissue culture are produced from a plant part selected from the
       group consisting of embryos, meristematic cells, callus, pollen, leaves, anthers, stems,
       petioles, roots, root tips, fruits, seeds, flowers, cotyledons, and hypocotyls.
23.    A Brassica oleracea plant regenerated from the tissue culture of claim 22, wherein
       the plant has all of the morphological and physiological characteristics of line
       ASOO1P.
24.    The plant or seed of claim 20, which is hybrid.
                                            Pa2e 57 of 62

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
25.    The plant or seed of claim 21 further comprising a locus conversion, wherein said
       plant or seed otherwise has all of the morphological and physiological characteristics
       of line ASOO1P.
26.    A tissue culture of cells produced from the plant of claim 25, wherein said cells of
       tissue culture are produced from a plant part selected from the group consisting of
       embryos, meristematic cells, callus, pollen, leaves, anthers, stems, petioles, roots, root
       tips, fruits, seeds, flowers, cotyledons, and hypocotyls.
27.    A plant regenerated from the tissue culture of claim 26, wherein the plant has the
       locus conversion and otherwise all of the morphological and physiological
       characteristics of line ASOO1P.
28.    A seed produced by crossing the plant of claim 25 with itself or a different Brassica
       oleracea plant.
29.    A plant produced by growing the seed of claim 28.
30.    A Brassica oleracea plant or seed comprising at least one set of the chromosomes of
       line CMS AS002P, wherein a representative sample of seed of said line was deposited
       under ATCC Accession No. PTA-_               .
31.    The plant or seed of claim 30, which is inbred.
32.    A tissue culture of cells produced from the Brassica oleracea plant of claim 31,
       wherein said cells of tissue culture are produced from a plant part selected from the
       group consisting of embryos, meristematic cells, callus, pollen, leaves, anthers, stems,
       petioles, roots, root tips, fruits, seeds, flowers, cotyledons, and hypocotyls.
33.    A Brassica oleracea plant regenerated from the tissue culture of claim 32, wherein
       the plant has all of the morphological and physiological characteristics of line CMS
       AS002P.
34.    The plant or seed of claim 30, which is hybrid.
35.    The plant or seed of claim 31 further comprising a locus conversion, wherein said
       plant or seed otherwise has all of the morphological and physiological characteristics
       of line CMS AS002P.
36.    A tissue culture of cells produced from the plant of claim 35, wherein said cells of
       tissue culture are produced from a plant part selected from the group consisting of
       embryos, meristematic cells, callus, pollen, leaves, anthers, stems, petioles, roots, root
       tips, fruits, seeds, flowers, cotyledons, and hypocotyls.
                                            Pa2e 58 of 62

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
37.    A plant regenerated from the tissue culture of claim 36, wherein the plant has the
       locus conversion and otherwise all of the morphological and physiological
       characteristics of line CMS AS002P.
38.    A seed produced by crossing the plant of claim 35 with itself or a different Brassica
       oleracea plant.
39.    A plant produced by growing the seed of claim 38.
40.    A Brassica oleracea plant or seed comprising at least one set of the chromosomes of
       line AS002P, wherein a representative sample of seed of said line was deposited
       under ATCC Accession No. PTA-_               .
41.    The plant or seed of claim 40, which is inbred.
42.    A tissue culture of cells produced from the Brassica oleracea plant of claim 41,
       wherein said cells of tissue culture are produced from a plant part selected from the
       group consisting of embryos, meristematic cells, callus, pollen, leaves, anthers, stems,
       petioles, roots, root tips, fruits, seeds, flowers, cotyledons, and hypocotyls.
43.    A Brassica oleracea plant regenerated from the tissue culture of claim 42, wherein
       the plant has all of the morphological and physiological characteristics of line
       AS002P.
44.    The plant or seed of claim 40, which is hybrid.
45.    The plant or seed of claim 41 further comprising a locus conversion, wherein said
       plant or seed otherwise has all of the morphological and physiological characteristics
       of line AS002P.
46.    A tissue culture of cells produced from the plant of claim 45, wherein said cells of
       tissue culture are produced from a plant part selected from the group consisting of
       embryos, meristematic cells, callus, pollen, leaves, anthers, stems, petioles, roots, root
       tips, fruits, seeds, flowers, cotyledons, and hypocotyls.
47.    A plant regenerated from the tissue culture of claim 46, wherein the plant has the
       locus conversion and otherwise all of the morphological and physiological
       characteristics of line AS002P.
48.    A seed produced by crossing the plant of claim 45 with itself or a different Brassica
       oleracea plant.
49.    A plant produced by growing the seed of claim 48.
50.    A seed, plant, plant part, or cell of purple baby broccoli K1-703.
                                            Pa2e 59 of 62

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
51.    A tissue culture of cells produced from the purple baby broccoli plant of claim 50,
       wherein said cells of tissue culture are produced from a plant part selected from the
       group consisting of embryos, meristematic cells, callus, pollen, leaves, anthers, stems,
       petioles, roots, root tips, fruits, seeds, flowers, cotyledons, and hypocotyls.
52.    A purple baby broccoli plant regenerated from the tissue culture of claim 51, wherein
       the plant has all of the morphological and physiological characteristics of purple baby
       broccoli K1-703.
53.    A seed produced by crossing the plant or plant part of claim 50 with itself or with a
       different Brassica oleracea plant.
54.    A seed, plant, plant part, or cell of purple baby broccoli KI-703 further comprising a
       locus conversion.
55.    A seed, plant, plant part, or cell of purple baby broccoli K4-706.
56.    A tissue culture of cells produced from the purple baby broccoli plant of claim 55,
       wherein said cells of tissue culture are produced from a plant part selected from the
       group consisting of embryos, meristematic cells, callus, pollen, leaves, anthers, stems,
       petioles, roots, root tips, fruits, seeds, flowers, cotyledons, and hypocotyls.
57.    A purple baby broccoli plant regenerated from the tissue culture of claim 56, wherein
       the plant has all of the morphological and physiological characteristics of purple baby
       broccoli K4-706.
58.    A seed produced by crossing the plant or plant part of claim 55 with itself or with a
       different Brassica oleracea plant.
59.    A seed, plant, plant part, or cell of purple baby broccoli K4-706 further comprising a
       locus conversion.
60.    An edible plant part of a purple baby broccoli plant, wherein said edible plant part is
       selected from the group comprising florets, floret stems, heads, flower heads, side
       shoots, and stems.
61.    A method of producing a purple baby broccoli plant, wherein said method comprises
       crossing Brassica oleracea parent lines CMS ASOO1P and AS002P to produce a seed,
       and growing said seed to produce a purple baby broccoli plant.
62.    A purple baby broccoli plant produced by the method of claim 61, wherein said plant
       is purple baby broccoli K1-703.
                                            Pa2e 60 of 62

Atty. Docket No.: 1236-163PCT
63.    A method of producing a purple baby broccoli plant, wherein said method comprises
       crossing Brassica oleracea parent lines CMS AS002P and ASOO1P to produce a seed,
       and growing said seed to produce a purple baby broccoli plant.
64.    A purple baby broccoli plant produced by the method of claim 63, wherein said plant
       is purple baby broccoli K4-706.
                                       Pa2e 61 of 62

