ABSTRACT
The plant module (1) has a base plate (2) and/or a frame (3, 4) in the form of a lattice of
beams; a plurality of pieces of equipment, including machines in particular turbomachines,
are mounted to the base plate (2) and/or the frame (3, 4); a plurality of sensors (6, 7, 8, 9) are
mechanically connected to the base plate (2) and/or the frame (3, 4) and electrically
connected to a data processing unit (10) for receiving data detected by the sensors (6, 7, 8, 9)
and processing them; the sensors may be vibration sensors (6) and/or distance or
displacement sensors (9) and/or inclination or rotation sensors (7); the data collected by the
data processing unit (10) are suitable for providing information relating to human and/or
apparatus long-term operation at the plant module (1).
Fig. 1

            1/2
                co
    t9
            Co     co
cCo
       U'0)

   TITLE
   PLANT MODULE WITH SENSORS ARRANGEMENT
   RELATED APPLICATIONS
   This application claims priority from Italian patent application 10<removed-apn>230 filed 22
 5 December 2016, the contents of which are to be taken as incorporated herein by this
   reference.
   DESCRIPTION
   TECHNICAL FIELD
   Embodiments of the subject matter disclosed herein correspond to plant modules with a
 0 sensors arrangement.
   BACKGROUND ART
   In the field of "Oil & Gas", few years ago, some machine manufacturers started to sell and
   deliver pre-assembled plant modules comprising a plurality of machines and/or pieces of
   equipment. Machines (including turbomachines) can be turbines, compressors, pumps,
 5 combustors, motors; other pieces of equipment, such as so-called "auxiliaries", can be coolers,
   filters, bridge cranes, chimneys, cabins, are often comprised in plant modules.
   Typically, a structure of such modules comprises a metal base plate that may be called "base
   deck" and a metal frame; both the base plate and the frame are in the form of a lattice of metal
   beams, i.e. a framework of crossing structural steel members.
20 Such modules often have a cabin for staff operating at the module, i.e. "on duty on the
   module".
   Through the structure (in particular, its lattice of beams) of such modules vibrations generated
   by any machine operating a module are transmitted to other pieces of equipment of the
   module, including other machines of the module.
25 Through the structure (in particular, its lattice of beams) of such modules, deformations due to
   any machine operating at a module and/or to external factors may influence one or more
   pieces of equipment of the module, including machines of the module.
                                                     1

   It is known to detect vibrations of a single piece of equipment; this is the case, for example, of
   the solutions disclosed in patent documents published as EP2743500A1 and CN103758705B.
   It is known to detect deformations of a single piece of equipment; this is the case, for
   example, of the solutions disclosed in patent documents published as EP2743500A1 and
 5 US2005060120A1.
   It would be desirable to gather vibration and/or deformation data regarding a whole plant
   module in a systematic and orderly way and through a simple architecture.
   This may be useful just after assembling the module (well before operation of the whole
   module) for example for its accurate conformance tests.
 0 This may be useful just after installing the module (just before operation of the whole
   module) for example for its accurate conformance tests.
   This may be useful during operation of the whole module for guarantying long-term operation
   of the "plant module", i.e. for avoiding conditions that sooner or later may endanger its
   structure, any of its pieces of equipment (including its machines) and any of the persons
 5 working at the "plant module" (up to guarantying well-being).
   SUMMARY
   Embodiments of the subject matter disclosed herein relate to plant modules.
   According to one embodiment of the invention, there is provided a plant module with a base
   plate and/or a frame, wherein the base plate and/or the frame comprise a lattice of beams,
20 wherein the plant module comprises a plurality of machines mounted to the base plate and/or
   the frame and a plurality of sensors mechanically connected to the base plate and/or the
   frame, wherein the sensors are electrically connected to a data processing unit for receiving
   data detected by said sensors and processing them; wherein: at least one of the sensors is a
   vibration sensor for detecting vibrations at a point or zone of the base plate and/or the frame,
25 and/or at least one of the sensors is a distance or displacement sensor for detecting a distance
   or a displacement of a point or zone of the base plate and/or the frame, and/or at least one of
   the sensors is an inclination or rotation sensor for detecting an inclination or a rotation of a
   point or zone of the base plate and/or the frame.
                                                    2

   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
   The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated herein and constitute an integral part of
   the present specification, illustrate exemplary embodiments of the present invention and,
   together with the detailed description, explain these embodiments. In the drawings:
 5 Fig. 1       shows a schematic lateral view of an embodiment of a plant module;
   and
   Fig. 2       shows a simplified circuit diagram of the detection and communication system of
   the plant module of Fig. 1.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
 0 The following description of exemplary embodiments refers to the accompanying drawings.
   The following description does not limit the invention. Instead, the scope of the invention is
   defined by the appended claims.
   Reference throughout the specification to "one embodiment" or "an embodiment" means that
   a particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in connection with an embodiment is
 5 included in at least one embodiment of the subject matter disclosed. Thus, the appearance of
   the phrases "in one embodiment" or "in an embodiment" in various places throughout the
   specification is not necessarily referring to the same embodiment.         Further, the particular
   features, structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more
   embodiments.
20 In Fig. 1 a plant module 1 is shown together with a remote electronic unit 11 that may be
   close to (for example 0.1 or 1.0 kilometer) or far away from (for example 0.1 or 1.0
   kilometer) or very far away from (for example 100 or 1,000 kilometers) module 1.
   The module 1 of Fig. 1 comprises for example: a metal base plate 2, a metal frame with (e.g.
   four) vertical bars 3 and (e.g. three) horizontal bars 4 (forming a lattice of beams), a chimney
25 5, some machines, (such as turbines, compressors, pumps, combustors, motors), and some
   other pieces of equipment (such as so-called "auxiliaries", coolers, filters, bridge cranes,
   chimneys, cabins). The machines and the other pieces of equipment are not shown in the
   figure in order to make it more simple and clear). For example, the vertical bars 3 are fixed to
   the base plate 2, the horizontal bars 4 are fixed to the vertical bars 3, the machines, in
                                                      3

   particular at least one turbomachine, and the other pieces of equipment are mounted to the
   base plate 2 and/or the frame 3 and 4; a cabin 14 for staff on duty on the module 1 is fixed to
   the frame 3 and 4.
   The module 1 is provided with detection and communication system (see Fig. 2) comprising
 5 for example a plurality of sensors 6 and 7 and 8 and 9, a set of data acquisition boards 13, a
   data processing unit 10, and a plurality of GPS receivers 12.
   The sensors 6, 7, 8, 9 are mechanically connected to the base plate 2 and/or the frame 3 and 4
   and electrically connected to the data processing unit 10 so that the unit 10 may receive data
   detected by the sensors and process them.
 0 Sensors 6 are vibration sensors for detecting vibrations at points or zones of the frame 3 and
   4; similar sensors may detect vibrations at other points or zones for example of the base plate
   2. These sensors may comprise or consist of for example acceleration meters or speed meters.
   Sensors 7 are inclination or rotation sensors for detecting inclinations or rotations of points or
   zones of the frame 3 and 4; similar sensors may detect inclinations or rotations of other points
 5 or zones for example of the base plate 2; sensor 8 detects the inclination or rotation of the tip
   of the chimney 5. These sensors may be accelerometers and/or gyros and their detected data
   are properly processed in order to provide inclination or rotation data.
   Sensors 9 are distance or displacement sensors for detecting distances or displacements of
   points or zones of the base plate 2; similar sensors may detect distances or displacements of
20 other points or zones for example of the frame 3 and 4.         These sensors may comprise or
   consist of for example distance meters or speed meters or acceleration meters.
   It is to be noted a base plate and/or a frame of the plant module is typically associated to
   foundations; there may be distance or displacement sensors (similar to sensors 9) for detecting
   distances or displacements of points or zones of the foundations. In this case, for example,
25 the sensors are mechanically connectable to the foundations and electrically connected to a
   data processing unit.
   The communication between one or more of the sensors 6, 7, 8, 9 and the data processing unit
   10 may be entirely or partially through wired connection.
                                                   4

   The communication between one or more of the sensors 6, 7, 8, 9 and the data processing unit
   10 may be entirely or partially through wireless connection.
   An example of such connections is shown in Fig. 2.
   According to this example, there is a plurality of acquisition boards 13; each of the acquisition
 5 boards receive data from one or more sensors and forward them to the unit 10; therefore, they
   may be considered "data concentrators".
   One or more of the sensors 6, 7, 8, 9 may receive electric power from the data processing unit
   10 or a data acquisition board 13.
   One or more of the sensors 6, 7, 8, 9 may receive electric power from a local energy
 0 harvesting power supply.
   According to an advantageous embodiment, a sensor may be mechanically connected to a
   base plate and/or a frame by means of a magnet.
   According to an advantageous embodiment, the plant module may have sensor assemblies
   comprising a body (for example a metal body) with a magnet for mechanical connection to a
 5 base plate and/or a frame; a sensor assembly may further comprise for example three
   accelerometers to detect accelerations respectively along the three X, Y, Z axes.
   In the embodiment of Fig. 1, the data processing unit 10 is arranged to transmit data or
   information relating to data detected by the sensors 6, 7, 8, 9 to a remote electronic unit 11.
   Such transmission may be through an encrypted link. The unit 11 may be, for example, a so
20 called "cloud server".
   The communication between the data processing unit 10 and the remote electronic unit 11
   may be entirely or partially through wired connection.
   The communication between the data processing unit 10 and the remote electronic unit 11
   may be entirely or partially through wireless connection, for example based on Wi-Fi
25 technology.
   The data processing unit 10 and/or the remote electronic unit (11)       is arranged to process
   detected data.  They may be arranged to provide information relating to the possibility of
   human long-term operation at the plant module, for example if the well-being of the staff on
                                                   5

   duty on the module is guaranteed. They may be arranged to provide information relating to
   the possibility of apparatus long-term operation at the plant module; in particular, long-term
   operation may relate to the whole plant module and/or any of the pieces of equipment of the
   plant module, including its machines.
 5 The gathering and processing of data detected by the sensors may be useful:
        A) just after assembling the module (well before operation) for example for its accurate
            conformance test,
        B) just after installing the module (just before operation) for example for its accurate
            conformance tests,
 0      C) during operation of the module for guarantying the possibility of human and/or
            apparatus long-term operation at the plant module.
   In cases A and B, processing is very accurate, but may be quite slow.
   In case C, processing may be less accurate, but should be quite quick.
   Especially in cases A and B, the data processing unit 10 or the remote electronic unit 11 may
 5 be arranged to process detected data through a computer model of the plant module.
   Especially in cases A and B, it is advantageous that at least some of the sensors detect data
   synchronously between each other. A very effective way of doing this provides that at least
   some of the sensors use synchronism signals deriving from GPS receivers (label 12 in the
   figures; in fact, GPS signals contain very precise time, time interval and frequency
20 information. One GPS receiver may be associated to one sensor (see Fig. 2 on the left) or a
   group of sensors (see Fig. 2 on the right) that are located close for example close to each
   other.
   The detection frequency of the sensors may be from 1 detection per second to 100,000
   detections per second.
25 It is to be noted that when detections are used for accurate conformance tests before normal
   operation of the plant module, the detection frequency is preferably from 1,000 detections per
   second to 100,000 detections per second, more preferably from 20,000 to 50,000.
                                                   6

   It is to be noted that when detections are used during normal operation of the plant module,
   the detection frequency is preferably from 1 detection per second to 100 detections per
   second, more preferably from 20 to 50.
   It is to be noted that in cases A and B higher frequencies are preferable and in case C lower
 5 frequencies are preferable.
   For example, considering the detection frequency ranges set out above, they differ two or
   three orders of magnitude.
   It is also to be noted that the most appropriate frequency may depend on the kind of sensor.
   Detection of vibrations and/or distances and/or displacements and/or inclinations and/or
 0 rotations were sometimes carried out in machines of "Oil & Gas" plants before the present
   invention.
   Anyway, embodiments of the subject matter disclosed herein provide for detection of
   vibrations and/or distances and/or displacements and/or inclinations and/or rotations of one or
   more zones of the base plate and/or the frame of a "plant module". This does not exclude that
 5 in one or more machines of the "plant module" detection of vibrations and/or distances and/or
   displacements and/or inclinations and/or rotations occurs.
   For example, if a part of a machine of a module vibrates too much such vibration may be
   detected e.g. by a machine sensor taking care only of the monitoring of this machine. Such
   vibration is transmitted first to the structure (in particular, the beams of its lattice) of the
20 module and may be detected e.g. by a module sensor, and then to other neighbouring
   machines of the module; in this way, a higher level of monitoring is guaranteed; in fact, this
   module sensor is taking care of the module and, at least partially and indirectly, of a set of
   machines of the module.
   In other words, a sensor arrangement for the plant module comprises one or more module
25 sensors and may comprise also one or more machine sensors.
   Advantageously, a GPS receiver may be used not only for generating a synchronism signal
   for the sensors, as explained before, but also for time-stamping data detected the sensors;
   preferably, sets of data are grouped together and each set of data is time-stamped. Time
                                                    7

  stamping may be carried out for example by the acquisition boards or by the data processing
  unit of the plant module.
  Where any or all of the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or "comprising" are used
  in this specification (including the claims) they are to be interpreted as specifying the
5 presence of the stated features, integers, steps or components, but not precluding the presence
  of one or more other features, integers, steps or components.
  A reference herein to a patent document or any other matter identified as prior art, is not to be
  taken as an admission that the document or other matter was known or that the information it
  contains was part of the common general knowledge as at the priority date of any of the
0 claims.
                                                   8

CLAIMS
1.        A plant module with a base plate and/or a frame, wherein the base plate and/or the
frame comprise a lattice of beams, wherein the plant module comprises a plurality of
machines mounted to the base plate and/or the frame and a plurality of sensors mechanically
connected to the base plate and/or the frame, wherein the sensors are electrically connected to
a data processing unit for receiving data detected by said sensors and processing them;
wherein:
 -    at least one of the sensors is a vibration sensor for detecting vibrations at a point or zone
      of the base plate and/or the frame, and/or
 -    at least one of the sensors is a distance or displacement sensor for detecting a distance or
      a displacement of a point or zone of the base plate and/or the frame, and/or
 -    at least one of the sensors is an inclination or rotation sensor for detecting an inclination
      or a rotation of a point or zone of the base plate and/or the frame.
2.        The plant module of claim 1, wherein at least one of said machines is a turbomachine.
3.        The plant module of claim 1 or 2, comprising a plurality of pieces of equipment
mounted to the base plate and/or the frame.
4.        The plant module of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the data processing unit
is arranged to transmit data or information relating to data detected by said sensors to a
remote electronic unit.
5.        The plant module of any one of the preceding claims, wherein said data processing
unit or said remote electronic unit is arranged to process detected data and provide
information relating to the possibility of human long-term operation at the plant module.
6.        The plant module of any one of the preceding claims, wherein said data processing
unit and/or said remote electronic unit is arranged to process detected data and provide
information relating to the possibility of apparatus long-term operation at the plant module.
7.        The plant module of claim 6, wherein long-term operation relates to the whole plant
module and/or any of the pieces of equipment of the plant module.
                                                   9

8.      The plant module of any one of the preceding claims, wherein said data processing
unit and/or said remote electronic unit is arranged to process detected data through a computer
model of the plant module.
9.      The plant module of any one of the preceding claims from I to 8, wherein said sensors
receive electric power from said data processing unit or a data acquisition board.
10.     The plant module of any one of the preceding claims from I to 8, wherein said sensors
receive electric power from a local energy harvesting power supply.
11.     The plant module of any one of the preceding claims, wherein said sensors detect data
synchronously between each other.
12.     The plant module of claim 8, wherein said sensors use synchronism signals deriving
from corresponding GPS receivers.
13.     The plant module of any one of the preceding claims, comprising at least one GPS
receiver, wherein said plant module is arranged to time-stamp data detected by said sensors
through said at least one GPS receivers, preferably sets of data.
14.     The plant module of any one of the preceding claims, said data processing unit is
connected to said at least one GPS receivers and is arranged to time-stamp data detected by
said sensors through said at least one GPS receivers, preferably sets of data.
15.     The plant module of any of the preceding claims, wherein the detection frequency of
said sensors may be from 1 detection per second to 100,000 detections per second.
                                                10

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
