                                          11
ABSTRACT
 The present invention relates to a carrier for transporting at least one post-surgical
 drain comprising a drainage tube and a drain container, the carrier comprising: a
 pouch having an interior space and an opening; one or more compartments defined
 within the interior space and adapted to receive the drain container; and a body
 attachment means.

                 1/4
10
                        26
   38
                               38
                     28
      24                      20
                                  12
         1s                    14
                  42       42
            FIGURE 1

                                              1
Surgical Drain Carrier
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001] The present invention relates to a carrier. More specifically, the carrier of the
present invention is adapted for transporting post-surgical drains.
BACKGROUND ART
[0002] The following discussion of the background art is intended to facilitate an
understanding of the present invention only. The discussion is not an acknowledgement
or admission that any of the material referred to is or was part of the common general
knowledge as at the priority date of the application.
[0003] Following certain surgical procedures patients require post-surgical drains to
allow for the removal of blood and fluid buildup at the site of the surgery. A post
surgical drain typically includes drainage tubing and a drain container. Depending on
what is needed or what type of surgery has been recently performed, up to six post
surgical drains of varying sizes may be used on a single patient following a single
surgical procedure.
[0004] Each post-surgical drainage tube extends from the patient under the skin near
the incision and is usually held in place with sutures. The drainage tube runs from the
patient's body to the drain container, which is not fixed to the patient in any way. This
arrangement is very delicate and it is not uncommon for these sutures to be pulled
loose by an unsecured drain container. It is therefore important to provide support for
the post-surgical drain (particularly the drain container) in order to prevent the stitches
and/or the post-surgical drain from being pulled out of the patient's body. The patient
must therefore carry the drain container around with them, ensuring that minimal
tension is exerted on the drainage tubes, thereby minimising the risk of the drainage
tubes becoming detached.
[0005] Several solutions have been attempted to alleviate the burden on the patient,
including pinning the post-surgical drains to the outside of their clothes or simply
carrying a bag or pillowcase with the drain container placed inside. Aside from the
displeasing aesthetic of pinning the drain containers to the outside of clothes, the

                                               2
brushing of drain containers against other objects may cause excess tension to be
placed on the drainage tubes. Carrying the drain in a simple bag can also be
problematic as the bag volume is often much larger than the drain container, meaning
that the drain container is not properly secured. This can lead to the drain not being
held in an upright position, thereby risking leakage.    An additional problem with
handheld bags is that when the patient requires the use of their hands, they will need to
place the bag on the floor or a nearby surface.     Patients that are not used to the drains
will often then inadvertently forget to hold or regather the bag and will walk away,
thereby placing excessive tension on the drainage tube.
[0006] The present invention seeks to overcome, or at least ameliorate, one or more of
the deficiencies of the prior art mentioned above, or to provide the consumer with a
useful or commercial choice.
[0007] Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word
"comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to
imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers but not the exclusion of any
other integer or group of integers.
[0008] Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the terms
"attach", "attached" or "attachment", when used in reference to the attachment means
are understood to include reference to positioning of the attachment means on, over or
relative to a wearer of the carrier of the present invention.
SUMMARY OF INVENTION
[0009] In accordance with the present invention, there is provided a carrier for
transporting at least one post-surgical drain comprising a drainage tube and a drain
container, the carrier comprising:
         a pouch having an interior space and an opening;
         one or more compartments defined within the interior space and adapted to
         receive the drain container; and
         a body attachment means.

                                              3
[0010] Preferably, two or more compartments are defined within the interior space.
More preferably, where two or more compartments are defined within the interior space,
the compartments are adjacently disposed.
[0011] In one form of the present invention, the opening of the pouch is releasably
sealable.     Preferably, the opening of the pouch is releasably sealable by way of
releasable fasteners. More preferably, the releasable fasteners are press studs.
[0012] In one form of the present invention, where the releasable fasteners are press
studs, two or more fasteners are provided along the opening.
[0013] In one form of the present invention, the interior space is not fully occupied by the
or all of the compartments.
[0014] In one form of the present invention, the body attachment means is provided in
the form of a strap or belt.  Preferably, the body attachment means is a strap.
[0015] In one form of the present invention, the pouch is permanently fixed to the body
attachment means.        In an alternative form of the present invention, the pouch is
adjustably attached to the body attachment means.          As would be understood by a
person skilled in the art, adjusting the attachment of the pouch to the body attachment
means may include repositioning the point or points of attachment.
[0016] In one form of the present invention, the body attachment means is adjustable in
length. Preferably, the adjustment is by way of an adjustable buckle.
[0017] In one form of the present invention, the pouch is provided with one or more
drainage apertures.
[0018] In one form of the present invention, the pouch is constructed from a material
selected from: polyester, plastics, nylon, spandex, cotton, micro-fibre elastic, elastane,
neoprene, power-net fabrics, or combinations thereof.       More preferably, the pouch is
constructed from a water resistant material.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0019] Further features of the present invention are more fully described in the following
description of several non-limiting embodiments thereof. This description is included

                                                4
solely for the purposes of exemplifying the present invention. It should not be
understood as a restriction on the broad summary, disclosure or description of the
invention as set out above. The description will be made with reference to the
accompanying drawings in which:
        Figure 1 is side view of the front of the carrier of the present invention with the
        base folded out;
        Figure 2 is a side view of the rear of the carrier of Figure 1;
        Figure 3 is a side view of the carrier of Figure 1 with the base folded in; and
        Figure 4 is an upper perspective view of the carrier Figure 1.
DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[0020] As shown in Figures 1 to 4, there is provided a carrier 10 for transporting at least
one post-surgical drain (not shown).      The carrier 10 includes a pouch 12 having a front
pouch panel 14, a rear pouch panel 16 and a base pouch panel 15 interconnected to
define an interior space 18. The upper edge 20 of the front pouch panel 14 and the
upper edge 22 of the rear pouch panel 16 being separate and defining there between
an opening 24.
[0021] The carrier 12 further comprises a body attachment means, for example a strap
26, which engages with the pouch 12 for attachment of the pouch 12 to a patient's body.
Whilst a strap 26 is shown in the Figures, it is to be understood that the body
attachment means can be any type of belt or strap, preferably adjustable in size so that
the pouch 12 can be easily adjusted to comfortably fit on or around a patient's body.
[0022] The strap 26 is attached to the upper edges 20, 22 of the pouch panels 14, 16
extending in a substantially perpendicular direction to the upper edges 20, 22 away from
the pouch 12. Placement of the strap 26 facilitates around-the-neck, or over- the
shoulder wear. The ends 28 of the strap 26 are fastened to the pouch 12 on opposite
sides, that is, one strap end is fixed to the upper edge 20 of the front pouch panel 14
and the other strap end to the upper edge 22 of the rear pouch panel 16.                   This
configuration provides support and balance to the device for carrying post-surgical
drains.

                                             5
[0023] In the embodiment shown in the Figures, the pouch 12 is permanently fixed to
the body attachment means, for example by sewing such that its relative position on the
body attachment means cannot be adjusted. It is envisaged that the pouch 12 may also
be adjustably attached to the body attachment means such that it can be easily re
positioned anywhere along the length of the attachment means.
[0024] In various other embodiments, the carrier of the invention can be slung around a
patient's the neck or shoulder, or around-the-waist. The strap 26 may be worn around
the patient's neck, thereby positioning the carrier in front of the patient, or around a
shoulder of the patient, thereby allowing for positioning of the pouch on either side of
the patient.
[0025] As best seen in Figure 4, one or more compartments 30 are provided within the
interior space 18.       In the embodiment shown in the Figures, there are two
compartments 30.      Each compartment 30 is shaped to receive a drain container. Each
compartment includes a compartment front panel 32 that is permanently affixed to either
the front pouch panel 14 or the rear pouch panel 16.       Together, compartment front
panel 32 and the pouch panel 14, 16 define a compartment interior 34 for receiving and
supporting a drain container. The compartment interior 34 is defined by a top edge 36 of
the compartment front panel 32. When the compartment front panel 32 is pulled away
from the pouch panel 14, 16 the compartment interior 34 is opened at the top edge 36
to receive the drain container. Where there are multiple compartments 30, each
compartment front panel 32 can be fabricated from separate pieces or a single piece
which has been affixed to the pouch panel 14, 16 at the boundaries between
compartments 30.
[0026] It should be understood that the compartments in a multiple compartment device
need not be of the same width. Each compartment 30 is sized to match the drain
container intended to be received by the compartment. The size should allow for the
tight fit of the compartment front panel 32 around the drain container to ensure that the
or each drain container is properly secured and remains in an upright position.
[0027] In the arrangement shown in the Figures, the carrier 10 is provided with two
compartments 30 that are adjacently disposed next to one another on the rear pouch
panel 16.      Advantageously, the compartments 30 do not occupy the entire volume of
the interior space 18.     The inventors have determined that the remaining space is

                                              6
particularly useful for assisting patients with their everyday use of the carrier 10. The
remaining space allows for excess drainage tube length to be neatly coiled therein
along with any other component or accessories that are associated with the post
surgical drain. Further, the remaining space can also be adapted to receive larger drain
containers simultaneous to the smaller drain containers received by the compartments
30. This is particularly advantageous as it allows for the patient to carry multiple drain
containers in a single carrier 10.
[0028] The opening 24 is releasably sealable to allow for the drain containers to be
placed within the interior space 18 and then sealed and secured therein. The opening
24 is releasably sealable by way of releasable fasteners, such as for example press
studs 38 provided along the upper edges 20, 22.          In the arrangement shown in the
Figures, the male and female portions of the press studs each placed on the upper
edge 20 of the front pouch panel 14 and the upper edge 22 of the rear pouch panel 16
respectively. This arrangement allows for the male and female portions of the press
stud to come together to seal the opening 24. In the embodiment shown in the Figures,
the carrier is provided with two press studs 38 arranged along the upper edges 20, 22.
It is envisaged that the releasable fasteners may also be provided in other forms known
to a person skilled in the art, such as for example hook-and-loop type fasteners or
buttons. Advantageously, the space 40 between the press stud 34 and the side of the
opening 24 may be used to facilitate passage of the drainage tubes from within the
pouch 12 to the patient. Due to the relatively small size of the space 40, the drainage
tubes are neatly arranged, preventing tangles.
[0029] The pouch 12 and the body attachment means are constructed from a lightweight
material that is washable, hygienic and designed to ease the wearing of post-surgical
drains. In one embodiment of the present invention, the pouch and body attachment
means are constructed from a water-resistant material such as polyester.
[0030] The base pouch panel 15 is provided with a multiple drainage aperture 42 to
allow for any water or other liquid in the pouch to be drained away.
[0031] One of the more challenging activities for recovering surgical patients is bathing
or showering. When faced with the challenge of taking a shower or bath, the patient will
typically have to carry the post-surgical drain in their hands whilst attempting to shower
or will place it on the shower floor.       In the embodiment where the pouch 12 is

                                              7
constructed from a water resistant material, the present invention is fabricated to allow
for use of the carrier 10 in the shower. During the shower, any water that enters the
interior volume 18 is drained out by way of the drainage apertures 42.           The water
resistant material allows for the carrier to be easily air-dried after use, thereby avoiding
the inconvenience of having to wash and dry the carrier 10. It is further envisaged that
the pouch 12 is constructed from other lightweight materials, such as materials selected
from: polyester, plastics, nylon, spandex, cotton, micro-fibre elastic, elastane, neoprene,
power-net fabrics, or combinations thereof.
[0032] In use, the patient will open the opening 24 and will pull the compartment front
panel 32 away from the pouch panel 14, 16, thereby opening the compartment interior
34. The drain container can then be placed in the compartment 30 with the drainage
tube exiting out the opening 26. The opening is sealed by the press stud 34, containing
the drainage tube to the space 36. The strap 26 is then placed over the patient's head
or shoulder, thereby positioning the pouch in the vicinity of the surgical incision site and
more preferably, beneath the incision site to minimize tube stretching and to facilitate
fluid drainage.
[0033] It should be understood that either around-the-neck wear or over-the-shoulder
wear of the carrier of the present invention provides considerable freedom and
versatility, allowing the pouch to be positioned at virtually any horizontally or vertically
oriented position on the torso or abdomen by moving the device to the desired
horizontal position, and by adjusting the strap or belt length to achieve the desired
vertical positioning on the torso. The free-slung pouch 14 and adjustable strap 26
features provide considerable comfort and freedom to a patient in positioning, or
repositioning, the device to virtually any spot on the front or side of the torso or
abdominal region of the patient. During normal daytime activities, the pouch device of
the invention may be advantageously positioned at the patient's side by being slung
over the shoulder.
[0034] The carrier 10 of the present invention is designed to provide comfortable
deportment of such drainage devices, and to avoid tangling and stretching of the
drainage tubes. The system can be adapted to support a plurality of drainage tube
and/or vessels of varying sizes and shapes. The carrier can be worn under or over the
clothing.    The pouch may be easily repositioned by adjusting the body attachment
means.

                                              8
[0035] Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention described herein is
susceptible to variations and modifications other than those specifically described. The
invention includes all such variation and modifications. The invention also includes all
of the steps, features, formulations and compounds referred to or indicated in the
specification, individually or collectively and any and all combinations or any two or
more of the steps or features.

                                               9
CLAIMS
1. A carrier for transporting at least one post-surgical drain comprising a drainage tube
   and a drain container, the carrier comprising:
       a pouch having an interior space and an opening;
       one or more compartments defined within the interior space and adapted to
       receive the drain container; and
       a body attachment means.
2. The carrier according to claim 1, wherein two or more compartments are defined
   within the interior space.
3. The carrier according to claim 2, wherein the two or more compartments are
   adjacently disposed.
4. The carrier according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the opening of the
   pouch is releasably sealable.
5. The carrier according to claim 4, wherein the opening of the pouch is releasably
   sealable by way of releasable fasteners.
6. The carrier according to claim 5, wherein the releasable fasteners are press studs.
7. The carrier according to claims 6, wherein two or more fasteners are provided along
   the opening.
8. The carrier according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the interior space
   is not fully occupied by the or all of the compartments.
9. The carrier according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the body
   attachment means is provided in the form of a strap or belt.

                                              10
10.The carrier according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the pouch is
    permanently fixed to the body attachment means.
11.The carrier according to any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the pouch is adjustably
    attached to the body attachment means.
12.The carrier according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the body
    attachment means is adjustable in length.
13.The carrier according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the pouch is
    provided with one or more drainage apertures.
14. The carrier according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the pouch is
    constructed from a material selected from: polyester, plastics, nylon, spandex,
    cotton, micro-fibre elastic, elastane, neoprene, power-net fabrics, or combinations
    thereof.
15.The carrier according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the pouch is
    constructed from a water resistant material.

                                            1/4
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              10
                                                       26
                   38
                                                                  38
                                                  28
                        24                                       20
                                                                       40
                             36
                                                                            12
                                  15                              14
                                            42              42
                                       FIGURE 1

                                           2/4
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              10
                                                       26
                   38
                                                                  38
                                                  28
                        24                                       22
                                                                       40
                             36
                                                                            12
                                  15                              16
                                           42               42
                                       FIGURE 2

                              3/4
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                   10
                                         26
              38
                                                   38
                                    28
                    24                              40
                                                         12
                                              14
                         FIGURE 3

                                                   4/4
<removed-date>
                   10
                                                                   26
<removed-apn>
                                                                   34
                        34                                          22
                                                                         18
                                            30
                                                                                   20
                                  28
                        24             30                                                12
                                                                                    36
                                                                          28
              36                                                                        32
                                                         38
              32
                                                                              14
                                                                   42
                                                              42
                                                    42
                             15
                                                 FIGURE 4

