 HI:\ c\Tmnvovm\NRPortbl\DlCCUlZC\l6(61723-1.dncx-24/l/217
                                                           Abstract
  A material handling system, comprising: a plurality of storage locations; a track
 adjacent the storage locations, wherein a first group of the storage locations is
 disposed on a first side of the track and a second group of the storage locations is
 disposed on a second side of the track; a plurality of vehicles for delivering items to
the storage locations or retrieving items from the storage locations, wherein the
vehicles travel along the track in an aisle between the first and second groups of
storage locations; an output station positioned along the track; a controller for
 independently controlling each vehicle, wherein the controller is configured to control
one of the vehicles to retrieve an item from one of the storage locations and then
advance the vehicle with the item toward the output station, wherein when the vehicle
approaches the output station the controller is configured to control the vehicle so that
the vehicle drives upwardly and stops at the output station to present the contents to
the operator so that the operator can readily remove the item from the vehicle,
wherein the controller is further configured to advance the vehicle away from the
output station after the operator removes the item from the vehicle.

                                             1
                                            -.
               Method and Apparatus for Sorting or Retrieving Items
                                  Related Application
 [001] This application claims divisional status from Australian Patent Application
 No. 2013246038, the specification of which is incorporated by reference.
                                      Priority Claim
 [001a] The present invention claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No.
 61/622,000 filed April 9, 2012. The entire disclosure of the foregoing application is
 hereby incorporated herein by reference.
                                 Field of the Invention
 [002] The present invention relates to a material handling system for sorting or
 retrieving items. More specifically, the present invention relates to a material handling
system incorporating a plurality of destination areas arranged along a track for
guiding a plurality of vehicles for carrying items to and/or from the destination areas.
                             Background of the Invention
[003] Sorting and retrieving items to fill a customer order can be a laborious and time
consuming. Similarly, may large organizations have extensive storage areas in which
numerous items are stored. Sorting and retrieving items from the hundreds or
thousands of storage areas requires significant labor to perform manually. In many
fields, automated picking has developed to reduce labor cost and improve customer
service by reducing the time it takes to fill a customer order. However, the known

                                            -2
 systems of automatically handling the materials are either very expensive or have
 limitations that hamper their effectiveness. Accordingly, there is a need in a variety of
 material handling applications for automatically storing and/or retrieving items.
                               Summary of the Invention
 [004] In one embodiment there is provided a material handling system, comprising: a
 plurality of storage locations; a track adjacent the storage locations, wherein a first
 group of the storage locations is disposed on a first side of the track and a second
 group of the storage locations is disposed on a second side of the track; a plurality of
 vehicles for delivering items to the storage locations or retrieving items from the
 storage locations, wherein the vehicles travel along the track in an aisle between the
first and second groups of storage locations; an output station positioned along the
track; a controller for independently controlling each vehicle, wherein the controller is
configured to control one of the vehicles to retrieve an item from one of the storage
 locations and then advance the vehicle with the item toward the output station,
wherein when the vehicle approaches the output station the controller is configured to
control the vehicle so that the vehicle drives upwardly and stops at the output station
to present the contents to the operator so that the operator can readily remove the
item from the vehicle, wherein the controller is further configured to advance the
vehicle away from the output station after the operator removes the item from the
vehicle.
[005] In another embodiment there is provided a material handling system,
comprising: a plurality of storage locations; a track adjacent the storage locations
comprising a plurality of generally vertical rail sections forming a row of columns and
a plurality of generally horizontal rail sections interconnecting the columns forming a
vertical loop; a plurality of vehicles for delivering items to the storage locations or
retrieving items from the storage locations, wherein the vehicles travel along the track
around the vertical loop; an output station positioned along the track at an end of the

                                           -3
  row of columns, wherein the output station is configured so that an operator can
 readily remove items from the vehicles when the vehicles stop at the output station;
 wherein a first group of the storage locations is disposed on a first side of the track
 and a second group of the storage locations is disposed on a second side of the track
 so that an aisle is formed between the first and second groups of storage locations,
 wherein the output station is positioned at an end of the aisle; wherein the track
 curves away from the output station so that the vehicles move laterally away from the
 output station and then vertically upwardly away from the output station.
 [006] In another embodiment, there is provided a method for handling materials,
 comprising the steps of material handling system, comprising: driving a plurality of
 vehicles along a track to storage locations, wherein the track comprises a plurality of
generally vertical rail sections forming a row of columns and a plurality of generally
 horizontal rail sections interconnecting the columns forming a vertical loop;
transferring items between the vehicles and the storage locations; driving the vehicles
to an output station positioned along the track at an end of the row of columns;
stopping the vehicle at the output station; removing an item from one of the vehicles
when the vehicle is stopped at the output station; and driving the vehicles laterally
away from the output station and then vertically upwardly away from the output
station after the step of removing an item.
[007] This paragraph has been deleted.
[008] This paragraph has been deleted.
                          Brief Description of the Drawings
[009] The foregoing summary and the following detailed description of the preferred
embodiments of the present invention will be best understood when read in
conjunction with the appended drawings, in which:

                                         -4
[0010] Figure 1 is a perspective view of a sorting and retrieving

      apparatus;
 [0011]      Figure 2 is a fragmentary front view, illustrating a portion of the
     track system of the apparatus illustrated in Figure 1;
 [0012]      Figure 3 is a fragmentary sectional view of a portion of the
     apparatus illustrated in Figure 1;
 [0013]      Figure 4 is an enlarged fragmentary view of a portion of track of
     the apparatus illustrated in Figure 1, showing details of a gate in an
     closed position;
 [0014]      Figure 5 is an enlarged fragmentary view of a portion of track of
     the apparatus illustrated in Figure 1, showing details of a gate in an open
     position;
 [0015]     Figure 6 is an enlarged fragmentary perspective view of a portion
    of the track illustrated in Figure 4, showing details of a gate from a
    rearward view;
[0016       Figure 7 is an enlarged fragmentary perspective view of a portion
    of the track illustrated in Figure 5, showing details of a gate from a
    rearward view;
[0017]      Figure 8 is an enlarged fragmentary perspective view of a portion
    of the track of the system illustrated in Fig. 1, showing details of a gate in
    the closed position;
[0018]      Figure 9 is an enlarged fragmentary perspective view of a portion
                                       -5-

    of the track of the system illustrated in Fig. 1, showing details of a gate in
    the open position;
 [0019]      Figure 10 is an enlarged view of a wheel of the delivery vehicle
    illustrated in Figure 8, shown in relation to the track of the apparatus
    illustrated in Figure 1;
 [0020]      Figure 11 is a top perspective view of a delivery vehicle of the
    apparatus illustrated in Figure 1;
[0021]       Figure 12 is an enlarged perspective view of a portion of the
    delivery vehicle illustrated in Figure 11;
[0022]      Figure 13 is an enlarged perspective view of a portion of the
    delivery vehicle illustrated in Figure 11;
[0023]      Figure 14 is an enlarged perspective partially broken away of a
    picking station of the apparatus illustrated in Figure 1;
[0024]      Figure 15A is an enlarged fragmentary perspective view of a
    portion of the picking station illustrated in Figure 14, shown in a first
    position;
[0025]      Figure 15B is an enlarged fragmentary perspective view of the
    portion of the picking station illustrated in Figure 15A, shown in a second
    position;
[0026]      Figure 16 is an enlarged fragmentary plan view of a portion of the
    picking station illustrated in Figure 14; and
                                        -6-

 [0027]     Figure 17 is an enlarged fragmentary perspective view of a portion
    of the picking station illustrated in Figure 14.
                       Detailed Description of the Invention
 [0028]     Referring now to the figures in general and to Fig.1 specifically, an
    apparatus for sorting or retrieving items is designated generally 10. The
    apparatus 10 includes a plurality of delivery vehicles or cars 200 to
    retrieve items from one of a plurality of locations, such as storage areas
    100. The cars then deliver the items to an output station 310 where an
    operator can retrieve the item from the car. The car then returns to a
    storage area to store any remaining items that were not retrieved by the
    operator. The car then advances to another storage area to obtain the
    next item to be retrieved. In this way, the system includes a plurality of
    individually controlled cars 200 that flow through the track to retrieve
    items from the various storage areas and present the items to an operator
    before returning any remaining items and then retrieving another item.
[0029]      The cars 200 travel along a track 110 to the storage locations.
    The track has a horizontal upper rail 135 and a horizontal lower rail 140,
    which operates as a return leg. A number of parallel vertical track legs
    130 extend between the upper rail and the lower return leg. In the
    present instance, the storage areas 100 are arranged in columns
                                       -7-

     between the vertical track legs 130. In Figs. 2-3, the track system is
     illustrated as a generally rectilinear array of columns. However, as shown
     in Figs. 14-17, the output station 310, comprises a pick station that has a
     curved track 315 that curves outwardly from the array of bins so that totes
     carried by the cars are readily accessible to the operator.
 [0030]       In a typical operation using the system, after the vehicle leaves the
     picking station 310, the vehicle will be carrying an item that is to be
     returned to one of the storage areas 100. The vehicle will return the item
    to a first storage area and then move to a second storage area to retrieve
    a second item to be transported to the picking station.
 [0031]      After leaving the picking station, the car travels upwardly along two
    pairs of vertical tracks legs and then horizontally along two upper tracks
    135. The car 200 travels along the upper rail until it reaches the
    appropriate column containing the storage area for the item that the car is
    carrying. The track 110 includes gates 180 that direct the car 200 down
    the vertical legs and the car stops at the appropriate storage area. The
    car 200 then discharges the item into the storage area.
[0032]       After discharging the item, the car 200 travels to the second
                                         -8-

    storage location to retrieve the next item to be transported to the picking
    station. After retrieving the item, the car 200 travels down the vertical
    legs 130 of the column until it reaches the lower rail 140. Gates direct the
    car along the lower rail, and the car follows the lower rail to return to the
    pick station 310 to deliver another item.
[0033      The cars 200 are semi-autonomous vehicles that each have an
   onboard power source and an onboard motor to drive the cars along the
   track 110. The cars also include a loading/unloading mechanism 210, for
   loading items onto the cars and discharging items from the cars.
[0034]     Since the system 10 includes a number of cars 200, the
   positioning of the cars is controlled to ensure that the different cars do not
   crash into each other. In one embodiment, the system 10 uses a central
   controller 450 that tracks the position of each car 200 and provides
   control signals to each car to control the progress of the cars along the
   track. The central controller 450 may also control operation of the various
   elements along the track, such as the gates 180. However, in the
   present instance, the gates are actuated by the cars 200 as discussed
   further below.
                                      -9-

 [0035]      Referring to Fig. 1, the system includes an array of storage
     locations 100 for receiving items. In the present instance, the storage
     locations 190 are arranged in columns. Additionally, the system 10
     includes a track 110 for guiding the cars 200 to the storage locations 100.
     In the following description, the system is described as delivering and/or
     retrieving items to and from storage areas 100. The items may be
    configured so that an individual item is stored at a storage location.
     However, in a typical operation environment, the items are stored in or on
    a storage mechanism, such as a container or platform. For instance, in
    the present instance, the items are stored in a container, referred to as a
    tote. The tote is similar to a carton or box without a lid, so that an
    operator can easily reach into the tote to retrieve an item at the picking
    station. Although the present system is described as using totes, it
    should be understood that any of a variety of storage mechanisms can be
    used, such as pallets or similar platforms.
[0036]      The storage locations 100 can be any of a variety of
    configurations. For instance, the simplest configuration is a shelf for
    supporting the items or the container holding the items. Similarly, the
    storage locations 190 may include one or more brackets that cooperate
    with the storage mechanism to support the storage mechanism in the
    storage location. For example, in the present instance, the storage
                                       -10-

    locations include brackets similar to shelf brackets for supporting one of
    the totes.
[0037]      Referring to Fig. 1, the system 10 generally includes a plurality of
    storage locations 100, which in the present instance are arranged in an
    array. At least one output station 310, referred to as a pick station, is
    disposed adjacent the storage locations. The cars 200 retrieve totes 15
   from the storage locations 100 and deliver the totes to the pick station
    310 where an operator can retrieve one or more items from the totes.
   After the operator retrieves the items, the car 200 advances the tote 15
   away from the picking station 310 and returns to one of the storage
   locations.
[0038]     The storage locations are arranged along a track 110. In the
   present instance, the track 110 includes a horizontal upper rail 135 and a
   horizontal lower rail 140. A plurality of vertical legs 130 extend between
   the upper horizontal leg and the lower horizontal leg 140. During
   transport, the cars travel up a pair of vertical legs from the pick station
   310 to the upper rail 135 (as described below, the cars actually travel up
   two pairs of rails because the track includes a forward track and a parallel
   opposing track). The car then travels along the upper rail until reaching
   the column having the appropriate storage area. The car then travels
                                      -11-

     downwardly along two front vertical posts and two parallel rear posts until
     reaching the appropriate storage location, and then discharges the item
     into the storage location. The car then travels to another storage location
     to retrieve another item. After retrieving the item, the car travels down the
     vertical legs until reaching the lower horizontal leg 140. The car then
     follows the lower rail back toward the pick station 310.
 [0039]      As can be seen in Figs. 1-3, the track 110 includes a front track
     115 and a rear track 120.     The front and rear tracks 115, 120 are parallel
     tracks that cooperate to guide the cars around the track. As shown in
     Fig.1 1, each of the cars includes four wheels 220: two forward wheel and
    two rearward wheels. The forward wheels 220 ride in the front track,
    while the rearward wheel ride in the rear track. It should be understood
    that in the discussion of the track the front and rear tracks 115, 120 are
    similarly configured opposing tracks that support the forward and
    rearward wheels 220 of the cars. Accordingly, a description of a portion
    of either the front or rear track also applies to the opposing front or rear
    track.
[0040]       Referring to Figs. 1-10 , the details of the track will be described in
    greater detail. The track 110 includes an outer wall 152 and an inner wall
    154 that is spaced apart from the outer wall and parallel to the outer wall.
                                        -12-

     The track also has a back wall 160 extending between the inner and
     outer walls. As can be seen in Figs. 8-10, the outer and inner walls 152,
      154 and the back wall form a channel. The wheels 220 of the car ride in
     this channel.
 [0041]      Referring to Figs. 8-10, the track includes both a drive surface 156
     and a guide surface 158. The drive surface positively engages the cars
     to enable the car to travel along the track. The guide surface 158 guides
     the car, maintaining the car in operative engagement with the drive
     surface 156. In the present instance, the drive surface is formed of a
     series of teeth, forming a rack that engages the wheels of the cars as
    described further below. The guide surface 158 is a generally flat surface
    adjacent the rack 156. The rack 156 extends approximately halfway
    across the track and the guide surface 158 extends across the other half
    of the track. As shown in Figs. 8 and 9, the rack 156 is formed on the
    inner wall 154 of the track. The opposing outer wall 152 is a generally flat
    surface parallel to the guide surface 158 of the inner wall.
[0042]      As described above, the track includes a plurality of vertical legs
    extending between the horizontal upper and lower rails 135, 140. An
    intersection 170 is formed at each section of the track at which one of the
    vertical legs intersects one of the horizontal legs. Each intersection
                                       -13-

    includes an inner branch 172 that is curved and an outer branch 176 that
    is generally straight. Fig. 9 illustrates both a right-hand intersection 170c
    and a left-hand intersection 170d, which are mirrors of one another. In
    Fig. 9, the intersections 170c, 170d illustrate the portion of the track in
    which two vertical legs 130 intersect the upper horizontal leg 135. The
    intersections of the vertical legs with the lower rail incorporate similar
    intersections, except the intersections are reversed. Specifically, the
    point at which vertical leg 130c intersects the lower rail incorporates an
    intersection configured similar to intersection 170d, and the point at which
    vertical leg 130d intersects the lower rail incorporates an intersection
    configured similar to intersection 170c.
[0043]      Each intersection 170 includes a pivotable gate 180 that has a
   smooth curved inner race and a flat outer race that has teeth that
   correspond to the teeth of the drive surface 156 for the track. The gate
    180 pivots between a first position and a second position. In the first
   position, the gate 180 is closed so that the straight outer race 184 of the
   gate is aligned with the straight outer branch 176 of the intersection. In
   the second position, the gate is open so that the curved inner race 182 of
   the gate is aligned with the curved branch 172 of the intersection.
[0044]     Accordingly, in the closed position, the gate is pivoted downwardly
                                       -14-

    so that the outer race 184 of the gate aligns with the drive surface 156. In
    this position, the gate blocks the car from turning down the curved
    portion, so that the car continues straight through the intersection. In
    contrast, as illustrated n Fig. 9, when the gate is pivoted into the open
    position, the gate blocks the car from going straight through the
    intersection. Instead, the curved inner race 182 of the gate aligns with
    the curved surface of the inner branch 172 and the car turns through the
    intersection. In other words, when the gate is closed, a car goes straight
    through the intersection along either the upper rail 130 or the lower rail,
    depending on the location of the intersection. When the gate is opened,
   the gate directs the car from either a vertical rail to a horizontal rail or
   from a horizontal rail to a vertical rail, depending on the location of the
    intersection.
[0045]     As can be seen in Fig. 8, the end of the gate remote from the pivot
   point of the gate flares outwardly so that the curved inner race matches
   the curved profile of the inner branch when the gate is open. As a result,
   the gate has a generally L-shaped configuration. To accommodate the
   flared end of the gate 180, the drive surface 156 of the inner branch has a
   notch or recessed portion. When the gate is closed, the notch provides
   clearance so that the outer race 184 of the gate lies flat, parallel with the
   drive surface of the outer branch 176. Further, in the example shown in
                                      -15-

     Fig. 9, the gate is positioned along the upper rail 135 of the track 110.
     When the gate is closed, the recess in the inner branch of the intersection
     170 allows the gate to lie flat so that it is aligned with the drive surface of
     the upper rail.
 [0046]      In the foregoing description, the gates allow one of the cars to
     either continue in the same direction (e.g. horizontally) or turn in one
    direction (e.g. vertically). However, in some applications, the system may
     include more than two horizontal rails that intersect the vertical columns.
     In such a configuration, it may be desirable to include a different rail that
    allows the cars to turn in more than one direction. For instance, if a car is
    traveling down a column, the gate may allow the car to turn either left or
    right down a horizontal rail, or travel straight through along the vertical
    column. Additionally, in some instances, the cars may travel upwardly
[0047]      The gates 180 may be controlled by signals received from the
    central controller 450. Specifically, each gate may be connected with an
    actuator that displaces the gate from the opened position to the closed
    position and back. There may be any of a variety of controllable
    elements operable to displace the gate. For instance, the actuator may
    be a solenoid having a linearly displaceable piston.
                                       -16-

 [0048]       Although the gates may be automatically actuated by an actuator
     along the track that is controlled by the central controller 450, in the
     present instance, the gates 180 are controlled by an actuator on the cars
     200. Specifically, referring to Figs. 4-7, the gates includes a passive
     actuator 190 that responds to an actuator 230 on the cars. If the actuator
     on the car engages the gate actuator 190 then the gate moves from a first
     position to a second position. For instance, as shown in Fig. 4, the gate
     is in a first position so that the vehicle will remain along the horizontal rail.
     If the gate actuator 230 on the car 200 engages the actuator 190 on the
    gate, the gate 180 will pivot upwardly into a second position so that the
    car will turn and move downwardly along the vertical rail 130.
[0049]       In the present instance, the actuators 190 on the gates are
    moveable actuation surfaces 192 connected to the gate by a linkage 195.
    The actuation surface 192 is mounted on a pivotable arm 193. To
    actuate the gate and move it from the first position to the second position,
    the gate actuator 230 on the car contacts the actuation surface 192. The
    actuation surface is angled similar to a ramp, so that as the car advances
    toward the gate, the gate actuator on the car engages the actuation
    surface and progressively displaces the arm 193 upwardly. The arm 193
    is connected to the gate 180 by a linkage 195. Accordingly, when the
    arm 193 pivots, the gate pivots as well. In this way, the actuator 230 on
                                         -17-

     the car engages the actuator on the gate to move the gate from the first
     position to the second position.
 [0050]      After the car 200 passes through the gate, the gate may be
    configured to remain in the second position until actuated by the gate
    actuator on the car to return to the first position. However, in the present
     instance, after the car passes through the intersection 170, the gate 180
    automatically returns to the first position. A variety of elements may be
    used to automatically displace the gate to the first position. For instance,
    a biasing element may bias the spring toward the first position.
    Alternatively, the gate actuator may be disposed so that the weight of the
    pivotable arm 193 and the actuation surface 192 tend to pivot the arm
    downwardly, thereby displacing the gate toward the first position.
[0051]      Accordingly, the gate actuator 190 adjacent the track 110 operates
    in response to an actuator on the car. In this way, the gate actuator does
    not communicate with the central controller. Instead, the central
    controller communicates with the car to selectively actuate the gates 180
    as discussed further below.
[0052]      In the foregoing description, the system 10 is described as a
    plurality of storage areas 100. However, it should be understood that the
                                      -18-

    system may include a variety of types of destinations, not simply storage
    locations. For instance, in certain applications, the destination may be an
    output device that conveys items to other locations. According to one
    example of an output device, the system may include one or more output
    conveyors that convey items away from the storage locations and toward
   a different material handling or processing system. For instance, an
   output conveyor designated A may convey items to a processing center
   designated A. Therefore, if an item is to be delivered to processing
   center A, the car will travel along the track to output conveyor A. Once
   the car reaches output conveyor A, the car will stop and transfer the item
   onto output conveyor A. Output conveyor A will then convey the item to
   processing center A. Further, it should be understood that the system
   may be configured to include a plurality of output devices, such as output
   conveyors.
[0053]     In some embodiments, the system may include a plurality of output
   conveyors in addition to the storage locations. In other embodiments, the
   system may only include a plurality of output devices, such as conveyors,
   and the system is configured to sort the items to the various output
   devices.
                                     -19-

    Delivery Vehicles
[0054]     Referring now to Figs. 11-13, the details of the delivery vehicles
    200 will be described in greater detail. Each delivery vehicle is a semi
    autonomous car having an onboard drive system, including an onboard
    power supply. Each car includes a mechanism for loading and unloading
    items for delivery. Optionally, each car also includes a gate actuator 230
   for selectively actuating the gates 180 to allow the vehicle to selectively
   change direction.
[0055]     The car 200 may incorporate any of a variety of mechanisms for
   loading an item onto the car and discharging the item from the car into
   one of the bins. Additionally, the loading/unloading mechanism 210 may
   be specifically tailored for a particular application. In the present
   instance, the loading/unloading mechanism 210 comprises a displaceable
   element configured to engage an item stored at a storage location 190
   and pull the item onto the car. More specifically, in the present instance,
   the car includes a displaceable element configured to move toward a tote
   15 in a storage location 100. After the displaceable element engages the
   tote 15, the displaceable element is displaced away from the storage
   location 100, thereby pulling the tote onto the car 200.
                                     -20-

 [0056]       Referring to Fig. 11, in the present instance, the loading/unloading
     mechanism 210 comprises a displaceable rod or bar 212. The bar 212
     extends across the width of the car 200 and both ends are connected
     with drive chains 214 that extend along the sides of the car. A motor
     drives the chains to selectively move the chain toward or away from
     storage locations. For example, as the car approaches a storage location
     to retrieve a tote 15, the chain may drive the rod toward the storage
     location so that the bar engages a groove or notch in the bottom of the
     tote. The chain then reverses so that the bar 212 moves away from the
     storage location 100. Since the bar is engaged in the notch in the tote, as
    the bar moves away from the storage location, the bar pulls the tote onto
    the car. In this way, the loading/unloading mechanism 210 is operable to
    retrieve items from a storage location. Similarly, to store an item in a
    storage location 100, the chain 214 of the loading/unloading mechanism
    210 drives the bar 212 toward the storage location until the item is in the
    storage location. The car then moves downwardly to disengage the bar
    from the tote 15, thereby releasing the tote.
[0057]       Additionally, since the system 10 includes an array of storage
    locations 100 adjacent the front side of the track 110 and a similar array
    of storage locations adjacent the rear side of the track, the
    loading/unloading mechanism 210 is operable to retrieve and store items
                                        -21-

      in the forward array and the rearward array. Specifically, as shown in Fig.
      11, the loading/unloading mechanism 210 includes two bars 212 spaced
     apart from one another. One bar is operable to engage totes in the
     forward array, while the second bar is operable to engage totes in the
     rearward array of storage locations.
 [0058]       As previously discussed, each car may also include a gate
     actuator 230 for actuating the gate from a first position to a second
     position so that the car may change directions as the car travels along the
     track. The actuator 230 may be any of a variety of elements configured
    to engage a corresponding element on the gate 180. In the present
     instance, the gate actuator 230 is selectively moveable between a first
     position and a second position. In the first position, the gate actuator is
    positioned so that it avoids engagement with the gate or other
    engagement element(s) along the track. In the second position, the gate
    actuator 230 is operable to engage a corresponding element along the
    track to actuate the gate.
[0059]        For instance, in the present instance, the gate actuator 230
    comprises an extendable pin. As shown in Fig. 12, in a first position, the
    pin is retracted. In a second position, the pin extends outwardly away
    from the car. Referring to Fig. 13, in the second position, the pin 230 is
                                       -22-

    operable to engage a corresponding element adjacent the track to
    actuate one of the gates. Specifically, in the extended position, the pin
    230 outwardly so that the pin can operatively engage the gate actuator
    190 positioned adjacent the gate. The extended pin 230 engages the
    actuation surface 192, thereby pivoting the arm 193 upwardly as the pin
    pushes the actuation surface upward as the car travels along the track.
[0060]     The cars 200 include gate actuators 230 adjacent each wheel 220.
   Additionally, the four gate actuators on the car are synchronized so that
   all four are extended and retracted synchronously. In this way, the car
   actuates the four gates simultaneously to change directions from
   horizontal to vertical. Specifically, the car 200 actuates two gates at the
   top of two vertical columns in the front track 115 and two gates at the top
   of the two vertical columns in the rear track 120.
[0061]     The car may have a separate drive mechanism for actuating the
   gate actuators. However, in the present instance, the gate actuators 230
   are actuated by the drive mechanism for the loading/unloading
   mechanism. More specifically, each gate actuator 230 is operatively
   connected with the chain 214. The gate actuator 230 reciprocally
   extends and retracts similar to a crank arm as the drive chain 214 is
   driven. Additionally, when the bar 212 is located in a home position
                                    -23-

    corresponding to an item being loaded on the car, the gate actuator is
    positioned in a retracted position. However, driving the chain forwardly
    sufficiently to extend the gate actuators drives the rod 212 toward or
    away from the track, but not sufficiently to cause the tote to overhand the
    vehicle. In other words, the chain 214 drives the gate actuators 230 but
    does not displace the tote on the car sufficiently to interfere with the track
    110, gates 180 or gate actuators 190 along the track.
[0062]      The car includes four wheels 220 that are used to transport the car
    along the track 110. The wheels 220 are mounted onto two parallel
   spaced apart axles 215, so that two or the wheels are disposed along the
   forward edge of the car and two of the wheels are disposed along the
   rearward edge of the car.
[0063]      Referring to Figs. 10-11, each wheel comprises an inner idler roller
   224 and an outer gear 222 that cooperates with the drive surface 156 of
   the track. The idler roller 224 rotates freely relative to the axles, while the
   outer gear is fixed relative to the axle onto which it is mounted. In this
   way, rotating the axle operates to rotate the gear 222. Additionally, the
   idler roller is sized to have a diameter slightly smaller than the distance
   between the upper wall 152 and the lower wall 154 of the track. In this
   way, the idler roller may rotate freely within the track, while ensuring that
                                      -24-

    the gear 222 of each wheel remains in operative engagement with the
    drive surface (i.e. the teeth) 156 of the track. Accordingly, when the
   vehicle is moving horizontally, the rollers carry the weight of the cart,
   while the gears 222 cooperate with the drive surface 156 of the track to
   drive the vehicle along the track.
[0064]     The car includes an onboard motor for driving the wheels 220.
   More specifically, the drive motor is operatively connected with the axles
   to rotate the axles 215, which in turn rotates the gears 222 of the wheels.
   The drive system for the car may be configured to synchronously drive
   the car along the track. In the present instance, the drive system is
   configured so that each gear is driven in a synchronous manner.
   Specifically, each gear 222 is connected to an end of one of the axles in a
   manner that substantially impedes rotation of the gear relative to the axle.
   Inthis way each axle drives the attached two gears in a synchronous
   manner. Additionally, in the present instance, both axles are driven in a
   synchronous manner so that all four gears are driven in a synchronous
   manner. There are various mechanisms that can be used to
   synchronously drive the axles. For instance, a pair of drive motors can
   be used to drive the axles, and the drive motors can be synchronized.
   Alternatively, a single drive motor may be used to drive both axles. Each
   axle may include a timing pulley rigidly connected to the axle to prevent
                                     -25-

     rotation of the pulley relative to the axle. Similarly, a timing pulley may be
     connected to the motor shaft. The drive belt connecting the timing pulley
     on the axle with the motor may be a timing belt so that rotation of the
     drive motor is precisely linked to the rotation of the axle. Although a
     single timing belt can be used to drive both axles synchronously, a pair of
     timing pulleys may be connected to the motor shaft, and each timing
     pulley may be connected to a corresponding timing pulley on one of the
     axles.
 [0065]     The drive motor may include a sensor that is operable to detect the
    rotation of the motor to thereby determine the distance the car has
    traveled. Since the gears 222 are rigidly connected with the axles, which
    are in turn synchronously connected with the drive motor, the forward
    distance that the car moves corresponds can be exactly controlled to
    correlate to the distance that the drive motor is displaced. Accordingly,
    the distance that a car has traveled along the determined path depends
    on the distance through which the car motor is rotated.
[0066]      To detect the rotation of the drive motor the motor may include a
    sensor for detecting the amount of rotation of the drive motor. For
    instance, the sensor 252 may be a sensor such as a hall sensor. The
    sensor detects the rotation of the motor and sends a signal to the central
                                       -26-

     processor 450, which determines how far along the designate path the
     car has traveled based on the known information regarding the path and
    the rotation that the sensor detects for the motor.
 [0067]    The car 200 may be powered by an external power supply, such
    as a contact along the rail that provides the electric power needed to
    drive the car. However, in the present instance, the car includes an
    onboard power source that provides the requisite power for both the drive
    motor and the motor that drives the load/unload mechanism 210.
    Additionally, in the present instance, the power supply is rechargeable.
    Although the power supply may include a power source, such as a
    rechargeable battery, in the present instance, the power supply is made
    up of one or more ultracapacitors. The ultracapacitors can accept very
    high amperage to recharge the ultracapacitors. By using a high
    current, the ultracapacitors can be recharged in a very short time, such
    as a few seconds or less.
[0068]     The car includes one or more contacts for recharging the power
    source. In the present instance, the car includes a plurality of brushes,
    such as copper brushes that are spring-loaded so that the brushes are
    biased outwardly. The brushes cooperate with a charging rail to recharge
                                      -27-

     the power source, as described further below.
 [0069]     For instance, a pair of charging rails may be disposed beneath the
     lower horizontal rail 140. The charging rails are conductive strips
     connected with an electrical supply. The charging contacts of the car 200
     engage the conductive strips to recharge the ultracapacitors. Specifically,
    the biasing element of the brushes biases the brushes outwardly toward
    the charging contacts. The electricity flowing through the charging
    contact provides a high amperage, low voltage source that allows the
    ultracapacitors to recharge in a few seconds or less. In addition, since
    the power supply provided by the ultracapacitors may last for only a few
    minutes, the car recharges each time it travels through the loading
    column.
[0070]      Each car may include a load sensor for detecting that an item is
    loaded onto the car. The sensor(s) ensure that the item is properly
    positioned on the car. For instance, the load sensor may include a force
    detector detecting a weight change or an infrared sensor detecting the
    presence of an item.
[0071]     Although the car operates in response to signals received from the
                                      -28-

     central controller 450, which tracks the location of each car, the car may
     also include a reader for reading indicia along the track to confirm the
     position of the car. For instance, each storage location may be assigned
    a unique bar code, and the reader may scan the track or other area
    around the storage location 100 at which an item is to be delivered. The
    data that the central processor has regarding the path that the car is to
    follow and the data regarding the distance the car has traveled based on
    the data regarding the rotation of the drive motor should be sufficient to
    determine whether the car 200 is positioned at the appropriate storage
    location. Nonetheless, it may be desirable to double check the location of
    the car before the item is discharged into the appropriate storage
    location. Therefore, the scanner may operate to scan and read
    information regarding the storage location at which the car is stopped. If
   the scanned data indicates that the storage location is the appropriate
   storage location, then the car discharges its item into the storage location.
   Similarly, the car may have a second reader for reading indicia adjacent
   the rearward edge of the car. The second reader may be used in
   applications in which the system is set up to utilize a first series of storage
   locations 100 along the forward side and a second series of storage
   locations along the rearward side of the track 110 as shown in Fig. 1.
[0072]      In the foregoing description, the cars have drive gears that interact
                                      -29-

    with teeth in the track to guide the cars around the track. Additionally, as
    described further below in the operation section, the location of the car
    may be controlled based on information regarding how far the car has
    traveled. In such applications it is desirable to synchronize the drive
    wheels of the car. However, in some applications alternative control
    systems may be used. For instance, the location of the cars can be
    controlled based on signals from sensors positioned along the track or
    indicators positioned along the track. In such instances, the cars may be
    configured to use a drive mechanism that is not synchronous as
   described above.
[0073]     As discussed further below, the car further includes a processor for
   controlling the operation of the car in response to signals received from
   the central processor 450. Additionally, the car includes a wireless
   transceiver so that the car can continuously communicate with the central
   processor as it travels along the track. Alternatively, in some
   applications, it may be desirable to incorporate a plurality of sensors or
   indicators positioned along the track. The car may include a reader for
   sensing the sensor signals and/or the indicators, as well as a central
   processor for controlling the operation of the vehicle in response to the
   sensors or indicators.
                                      -30-

     Pick Station
 [0074]     As described previously, the system 10 is configured so that the
     cars 200 retrieve items from the storage locations 100 and transport the
     items to the pick station 310. Referring now to Figs. 1 and 14-17, the pick
     station 310 will be described in greater detail.
[0075]       In one mode of operation, the system 10 is used to retrieve items
     needed to fill an order. The order may be an internal order, such as parts
    needed in a manufacturing process in a different department, or the order
    may be a customer order that is to be filled and shipped to the customer.
    Either way, the system automatically retrieves the items from the storage
    areas and delivers the items to the picking station so that an operator can
    pick the required number of an item from a tote. After the item is picked
    from a tote, the car advances so that the next item required for the order
    is advanced. The system continues in this manner so that the operator
    can pick all of the items needed for an order.
[0076]      In the present instance, the pick station 310 is positioned at one
    end of the array of storage locations. However, it may be desirable to
                                      -31-

     incorporate multiple pick stations positioned along the track 110. For
     instance, a second pick station can be positioned along the opposite end
    of the array of storage locations. Alternatively, multiple pick stations can
    be provided at one end.
[0077]      In the present instance, the pick station 310 is configured so that
    the car travels upwardly to present the contents to the operator so that
    the operator can more easily retrieve items from the tote 15. Referring to
    Fig. 1, at the picking station the track includes a curved section 315 that
    bends upwardly and away from the operator. In this way, the car moves
    upwardly and then stops at a height that facilitates the operator removing
    items from the tote. After the operator removes items from the tote, the
   car moves laterally away from the operator and the vertically to the upper
   horizontal rail 135.
[0078]     The system can be configured so that the cars tilt at the pick
   station 310 thereby making it easier for the operator to retrieve items from
   the tote. For instance, as the car approaches the pick station, the
   controller 450 may control the car so that the rearward set of wheels
   (from the perspective of Figs. 1 and 14) continue to drive after the forward
   set of wheel stop. This raises the rearward edge of the car (from the
   perspective of the operator). After the operator picks the items from the
                                      -32-

    tote, the forward set of wheels (relative to the operator) drive first, thereby
    level off the car. Once leveled, the four wheels drive synchronously.
[0079]       Although the cars may be tilted by controlling operation of the
    cars, if the wheels of the cars positively engage drive elements in the
    track, such as the toothed wheels 220 that mesh with teeth in the track as
    described above, the wheels 220 may bind if the rear wheels are driven
    at a different rate than the forward wheels. Accordingly, in the present
    instance, the track system may be modified so that the track moves to tilt
   the tote toward the operator.
[0080]      Referring to Figures 14-17, the details of the track system in the
   picking station 310 will be described in greater detail. At the end of the
   columns of storage locations, the track curves outwardly away from the
   vertical columns of the system to form the curved track 315 of the pick
   station 310. The track sections of the pick station include parallel forward
   track sections 318a, 318b that support and guide the forward axle 215 of
   the cars 200 and parallel rearward track sections 320a, b that support
   and guide the rear axle 215 of the cars. The forward track sections 318a,
   b extend vertically upwardly and then curve back toward the vertical
   columns of storage locations. The rearward track sections 320a, b are
   substantially parallel to the forward track sections 318a, b and curve
                                     -33-

    substantially similarly to the forward track sections 318 a, b. In this way,
    the forward and rearward track sections guide the cars so that the cars
    can maintain a substantially horizontal orientation as the cars are driven
    along the curved track 315.
[0081]      In the present instance, the rearward track sections 320a, b are
    configured so that the rearward axle of the car 200 can be lifted while the
    car is stopped at the pick station 310. By lifting the rearward axle of the
    car 200, the tote on the car is tilted to present the contents of the tote to
    the operator to facilitate the picking process. A variety of lift mechanisms
    can be utilized to lift the rearward axle of the car while maintaining the
   front axle of the car in a generally fixed vertical position. For instance, a
   variety of actuators or drive elements can be utilized to raise the rearward
   track sections 320a, b, such as solenoids or pneumatic pistons. In the
   present instance, a portion of the rearward track sections 320a, b are
   driven by a rotary motor as discussed further below.
[0082]     The following discussion describes the details of the rearward
   track sections 320a. The parallel rearward track section 320b, is
   configured substantially similarly to 320 so that track sections 320a, b
   oppose one another to maintain the rearward axle of the car 200 in a
   substantially horizontal orientation while the car is driven through the pick
                                       -34-

      station 310 and while the car is stopped at the pick station.
 [0083]      The rearward track 320 comprises a section of fixed track 328 and
      a section of moveable track 324. The moveable track section 324 is
     displaceable between a lower position, as shown in Fig. 15A, and an
      upper position, as shown in Fig. 15B. Although the moveable track may
      be a single straight track section having a uniform width, in the present
      instance, the moveable track 324 comprises upper and lower sections in
     which the lower section has a full width and the upper section has a
     reduced width 322. In the present instance, the reduced width section is
     approximately half the width of the lower section of the moveable track
     324, so that the upper section 336 is referred to as the moveable half
     track.
[0084]       An upper fixed track section 326 is fixedly mounted at the upper
     end of the rearward track 320 above the reduced width portion of the
     moveable track. In the present instance, the upper fixed track 326 is
    approximately half the width of the lower fixed track 328 so that upper
    section is referred to as the fixed half track 326. As shown in Fig. 15A,
    the fixed tracks 326, 328 have drive teeth similar to the sections of the
    track 110 used throughout the system as described above. The
    moveable track 324 also has drive teeth spaced and configured similarly
    to the fixed track section.
                                       -35-

 [0085]      The teeth of the moveable half track section 322 and the fixed half
     track section are configured so that when the moveable half track 322 is
     displaced upwardly next to the fixed half track 326 as shown in Fig. 15B,
     the teeth of the moveable half track 322 align with the teeth of the fixed
     half track 326 to form a full width track having a width similar to the width
     of the teeth of the lower fixed track 328.
 [0086]      The system includes a track lift assembly 330 for displacing the
     moveable half track 322 between the upper and lower positions as shown
     in Figs. 14-16. In the present instance, the track lift assembly 330
     includes a rotary motor, such as servomotor 332 that reciprocally drives
    the moveable half track 322 up and down. More specifically, the
    moveable track 324 is fixedly attached to an endless belt 336a entrained
    between a pair of pulleys above and below the moveable track. For
    instance, the moveable track may be clamped to the lifter belt 336a.
[0087]       Although the motor 332 may directly drive the lifter belt 336a, the
    track lift assembly 330 may include one or more drive belts to reduce the
    angular velocity and increase the torque provided by the motor. In the
    present instance, the track lift assembly includes a first drive belt 333
                                       -36-

     driven by the motor 332. The assembly 330 also includes a second drive
     belt 334 that is driven by the first drive belt 333, which drives the lifter belt
     336a. In the present instance, the first and second drive belts 333, 334
     are timing belts.
[0088]       When the motor 332 is driven in a first direction, the drive belts
    333, 334 drive the lifter belt 336a in a first direction to lift the moveable
    half track 322 into a raised position as shown in Fig. 15B. Driving the
    motor 332 in a reverse or second direction, the drive belts 333, 334 drive
    the lifter belt in the reverse direction to lower the moveable half track into
    the position shown in Fig. 15A.
[0089]      Although, a second motor may be provided to drive the moveable
   track of the rearward track section designated 320b in Fig. 14, in the
   present instance, the motor 332 drives the moveable track sections of
   both rearward tracks 320a, b. The moveable portion of rearward track
   320b is configured substantially similar to the moveable track of rearward
   track 320a and is fixedly connected with a lifter belt 336b substantially
   similar to the lifter belt 336a described above. To drive the lifter belts
   336a, b synchronously, a drive shaft 340 interconnects lifter belt 336b
   with lifter belt 336a as shown in Figs. 16-17. Specifically, drive belt 334
                                       -37-

      drives the drive shaft 340, which in turn directly drives lifter belts 336 a, b.
 [0090]       As shown in Figs 14 and 17, the drive shaft 340 spans between
     the left hand rear track 320a and the right hand rear track 320b. In
     certain instance, it may be desirable or necessary for maintenance
     equipment to be moved into the space between the left hand track
     section and the right hand track section. Therefore, in the present
     instance, the drive shaft is readily removable from between rear tracks
     320a and 320b. More specifically, the drive shaft 340 comprises an
     elongated shaft extending between a stub shaft that drives the left hand
     lifter belt 336a and a stub shaft that drives the right hand lifter belt 336b.
     Additionally, in the present instance, a shaft interlock 342 rotationally
    fixes the shaft to the stub shafts driving lifter belts 336 a, b. The shaft
     interlock is releasably connectable so that the elongated shaft can be
     readily detached from the stub shafts. In the present instance, an
     interlock release is manually actuable to disconnect the shaft interlocks
    so that the shaft can be disconnected from the stub shafts. For instance,
    the interlock release may be a rotatable knob as shown in Fig. 15A.
[0091]       Configured as described above, the track in the pick station 310 is
    operable tilt a car 200 in the pick station as follows. When the car enters
    the pick station, the car is driven partway up the vertical track sections
                                       -38-

      318a, b and 320a, b. When the car reaches a predetermined vertical
      position along 318a, b and 320a, b, the controller controls the car so that
      the car stops at a predetermined height in the picking station. When the
      car stops in the pick station 310, the car is in a generally or substantially
      horizontal orientation. In the present instance, the car is displaced
     vertically upwardly until the rear wheels 220 of the car 200 engage the
      lower section of the moveable track 324 and the car is stopped so that
     the car wheels 220 are engaged with the lower section of the moveable
     track.
 [00921      Once the car is stopped in the pick station, the controller controls
     the operation of the motor 332 to drive the motor in the first direction,
     which displaces the moveable tracks 324a, b upwardly into the position
     shown in Fig. 15B. Since the rear wheels 220 of the car 200 are engaged
    with the moveable tracks, displacing the moveable track upwardly
    displaces the rear wheels of the car upwardly, thereby lifting the rearward
    edge of the tote on the car upwardly. Inthis way, the tote is tilted relative
    to the horizon to present the contents of the tote to the operator at the
    pick station so that the operator can more easily remove items from the
    tote.
[0093]       Once the operator provides a signal to the system indicating that
                                       -39-

    the appropriate items were removed from the tote, the system controls
    the track to lower the car into a substantially horizontal position.
    Specifically, the controller controls the motor 332 so that the motor drives
    in a reverse direction, thereby driving the lifter belt in a reverse direction
    to lower the moveable track sections 324a, b. Since the rear wheels 220
    of the car are engaged with the moveable tracks 324a, b, lowering the
    moveable tracks lowers the rear wheels of the car downwardly until the
    car is substantially horizontal.
[0094]      After the moveable tracks are lowered into the lowered position
    shown in Fig. 15A, the controller stops the motor 332, which stops
    movement of the moveable tracks. While the moveable tracks are in a
   stationary position and the car is substantially horizontal, the car drives
   up the vertical tracks of the pick station so that the rear wheels of the car
   drive up the moveable tracks 324a, b and then up the fixed half track 326
   while the car is substantially horizontal.
[0095]     The pick station 310 may include a plurality of items to improve the
   efficiency of the pick station. For instance, the pick station may include a
   monitor to display information to aid the operator. As the car approaches
   the pick station, the system 10 may display information such as how
   many items need to be picked from the tote for the order. Additionally,
                                      -40-

    since the operator may pick items for multiple orders, the system may
    display which order(s) the item is to be picked for, in addition to how
    many of the item are to be picked for each order. The system may also
    display information such as how many items should be remaining in the
    tote after the operator picks the appropriate number of items from the
    tote.
[0096]      The system may also include a sensor for sensing that an item has
    been removed from a tote so that the car can automatically advance
    away from the pick station after the operator picks the items. Similarly,
   the system may include a manually actuable item, such as a button, that
   the operator actuates after picking the appropriate number of items from
   a tote. After the operator actuates the button, the system advances the
   tote away from the picking station.
[0097]      In the foregoing description, the system is discussed as being
   used to retrieve a discrete number of items to be used to fill an order.
   The operator picks the items from one or more totes as the totes are
   presented to the operator and the operator agglomerates the items, such
   as by placing the items into a container for shipping. Alternatively, rather
   than agglomerating a plurality of items, the system may incorporate one
   or more buffer conveyors that convey items away from the system. The
                                      -41-

     operator places the picked items onto the buffer conveyor in the
     appropriate order and the conveyor(s) convey the items away from the
     system.
     Operation
[0098]      After the operator removes the appropriate item(s) from one of the
    cars, the car moves away from the pick station 310. Specifically, the
    onboard controller sends a signal to start the drive motor. The drive
    motor rotates the axles, which in turn rotates the gears 222 on the wheels
    220. The gears 222 mesh with the drive surface 156 of the vertical rails
    to drive the car upwardly. Specifically, the gears and the drive surfaces
    mesh and operate as a rack and pinion mechanism, translating the
    rotational motion of the wheels into linear motion along the track 110.
[0099]      As the car moves away from the pick station, the system
   determines the storage location 190 where the item the car is currently
   carrying is to be returned, as well as the next item that the car is to
   retrieve. As discussed below, both of these determinations may require
   significant computation. However, since the cars move up the column
   from the pick station, the destination for the car does not need to be
   determined until after the car reaches the first gate along the upper rail
   135. If the system is not able to determine which destination the car is to
   be directed, the car can simply loop around the track back to the picking
                                    -42-

     station and re-start the process.
 [00100]    The following discussion describes the operation of the system
     assuming that the destination and route information for the car are
    determined by the time the car reaches the upper rail 135.
 [00101]    Once the central controller 450 determines the appropriate storage
    location 100 for the item, the route for the car is determined. Specifically,
    the central controller determines the route for the car and communicates
    information to the car regarding the storage location into which the item is
    to be delivered. The central controller then controls the operation of the
    car to actuate the gates along the track as necessary to direct the car to
    the appropriate column. Once the car reaches the appropriate column
    the car moves down the column to the appropriate storage location. The
    car stops at the appropriate storage location 100 and the onboard
    controller sends an appropriate signal to the car to drive the chain 214,
    which advances the bar 212 thereby driving the tote into the appropriate
    storage location.
[00102]     As the car 200 travels along the upper rail 135 and approaches a
                                      -43-

     column, the gates for the vertical rails 130 are controlled as follows. If the
     car is to pass over the column on the way to the next column, the gates
     remain in the closed position, as shown in Fig. 4. Specifically, both gates
     at the top of the column are closed so that the outer race 184 of the gate
     aligns with the straight track, with the outer race aligning with the drive
     surface 156 of the track 110. Inthis way, the gates provide a straight
    drive surface that cooperates with the drive surface 156 to allow the car
    to travel over the column.
 [00103]     When the car comes to a column that it is to turn down, the gates
    are controlled as follows. Referring to Fig. 5, the columns can be seen
    without the totes and without the picking station. The view in Fig. 2 is
    from the front of the apparatus 10, so the car will be traveling along the
    upper rail from the right to the left in the perspective of Fig. 2. In the
    following discussion, the car is to be conveyed to a storage location in the
    column designated C in Fig. 2. Column C includes two pairs of vertical
    legs. The first pair is front and back vertical legs 130c on the left side of
    column C; the second pair is front and back vertical legs 130d on the right
    side of column C.
[00104]      In order for the car to travel down column C, the wheels on the left
    side of the car travel down legs 130c and the right side wheels travel
                                        -44-

    down legs 130d. Therefore, as the car approaches column C, the gates
    at the top of 130d are displaced to the closed position so that the left side
    wheels remain on the upper rail and pass over the right side legs 130d.
    After the left side wheels of the car pass over the right legs 130c, the
    gates 180 at the top of the right legs 130d are displaced into the open
    position so that the right side wheels can turn down legs 130d.
    Specifically, after the left side wheels pass right legs 130d, the gate
    actuator 230 on the right axle of the vehicle contacts the actuator 190 on
    the gate 180 to displace the gates into the open position, as shown in Fig.
    9 (note that the view in Fig. 9 is taken from the rear side of the apparatus
    so that the perspective of the gates is reversed relative to the front side).
    The gates 180 block the straight path through the intersection 170 and
   the curved inner race 182 of the gates direct the right side wheels down
   vertical legs 130d. Similarly, the gates 180 at the top of the left side legs
    130c are displaced into the open position to direct the left side wheels
   down vertical legs 130c.
[00105]    As the car approaches the intersections at the bottom of legs 130c
   and 130d, the gates are operated similarly to the above description, but in
   reverse. Specifically, as the car approaches the intersections 170 at the
   bottom of legs 130c and 130d, the gates 180 in the intersections are
   displaced into the opened position so that the gates direct the forward
                                       -45-

     and leading wheels to turn down the lower rail. From the perspective of
     Fig. 2, the car travels from left to right after the car reaches the lower rail.
    After the car passes though the intersections at the bottom of the rails
     130c, 130d, the gates at the bottom of right side legs 130d are displaced
     into the closed position before the left side wheels of the car reach the
     intersection at the bottom of the right side legs 130d. Inthis way, the left
    side wheels of the car pass straight through the intersection at the bottom
    of legs 130d along the bottom rail 140.
[00106]     One of the advantages of the system as described above is that
    the orientation of the cars does not substantially change as the cars move
   from travelling horizontally (along the upper or lower rails) to vertically
    (down one of the columns). Specifically, when a car is travelling
    horizontally, the two front geared wheels 220 cooperate with the upper or
    lower horizontal rail 135 or 140 of the front track 115, and the two rear
   geared wheels 220 cooperate with the corresponding upper or lower rail
    135 or 140 of the rear track 120. As the car passes through a gate and
   then into a column, the two front geared wheels engage a pair of vertical
   legs 130 in the front track 115, and the two rear geared wheels engage
   the corresponding vertical legs in the rear track 120. It should be noted
   that when it is stated that the orientation of the cars relative to the horizon
   do not change, this refers to the travel of the vehicles around the track.
                                        -46-

      Even though the cars may tilt relative to the horizon at the picking station,
     the cars are still considered to remain in a generally constant orientation
     relative to the horizon as the cars travel along the track 110.
 [00107]     As the car travels from the horizontal rails to the vertical columns
     or from vertical to horizontal, the tracks allow all four geared wheels to be
     positioned at the same height. In this way, as the car travels along the
     track it does not skew or tilt as it changes between moving horizontally
     and vertically. Additionally, it may be desirable to configure the cars with
     a single axle. In such a configuration, the car would be oriented generally
     vertically as opposed to the generally horizontal orientation of the cars
    described above. In the single axle configuration, the weight of the cars
    would maintain the orientation of the cars. However, when using a single
    axle car, the orientation of the storage locations would be re-configured to
    accommodate the vertical orientation of the cars.
    Traffic Control
[00108]      Since the system includes a number of cars 200, the system
    controls the operation of the different cars to ensure the cars do not
    collide into one another. In the following discussion, this is referred to as
    traffic control.
                                       -47-

 [00109]      A variety of methodologies can be used for traffic control. For
      instance, the traffic control can be a distributed system in which each car
      monitors its position relative to adjacent cars and the onboard controller
      controls the car accordingly. One example of such as system utilizes
      proximity sensors on each car. Ifthe proximity sensor for a car detects a
     car within a predefined distance ahead of the car, the onboard controller
     for the trailing car may control the car by slowing down or stopping the
     trailing car. Similarly, if a car detects a car within a predefined distance
     behind the car, the lead car may speed up unless the lead car detects a
     car ahead of it within the predefined distance. In this way, the cars may
     control the speed of the cars independently based on the feedback from
     the proximity sensors.
[00110]      Although the system may use a distributed system for traffic
     control, in the present instance, the system uses a centralized system for
    traffic control. Specifically, the central controller 450 tracks the position of
    each car 200 and provides traffic control signals to each car based on the
    position of each car relative to adjacent cars and based on the route for
    each car.
[00111]      In the present instance, the central controller 450 operates as the
    traffic controller, continuously communicating with the cars as the cars
                                        -48-

    travel along the track 110. For each car, the central controller determines
    the distance that each car can travel, and communicates this information
    with the cars. For instance, if car B is following car A along the track, and
    car A is at point A, car B can safely travel to a point just before point A
   without crashing into car A. As car A advances to a subsequent point B
    along the track, car B can travel safely to a point just before point B
   without crashing into car A.
[00112]     The cars continuously communicate with the central controller to
   provide information indicative of their positions, so that the central
   controller can continuously update the safe distances for each car as the
   cars advance around the track.
[00113]     Although the foregoing discussion is limited to determining safe
   zones based on the positions of the various cars on the track, the
   determination of safe zones is based on other factors that affect the
   traffic. For instance, when calculating the safe distance for a car, the
   central controller considers the distance between the car and the next
   gate, as well as the distance to the destination storage location for the
   car.
                                     -49-

 [00114]     As can be seen from the foregoing, increasing the frequency of
     communication between the cars and the central controller increases the
     efficiency of the traffic flow along the track. Accordingly, in the present
     instance, the traffic control is designed to communicate with a car once
     for every inch the car travels along the track. Therefore, if a car travels at
     25 inches per second, the central controller communicates with the car
     every 40 msec. Further, it is desirable to have the cars travel at up to 50
     inch/sec. Therefore, it is desirable to configure the communications to
     allow the cars to communicate with the central controller every 20 msec.
[00115]      In addition, to the foregoing variables used to calculate safe
    distances, information regarding the track profile ahead of each car is
     used to calculate safe distances. For instance, the central controller
    determines whether the path ahead of a car is sideways movement, uphill
    movement (i.e. movement vertically upwardly) or downhill movement (i.e.
    movement vertically downwardly).
[00116]     One of the issues in traffic control relates to merging at
    intersections 170. The problem arises when a car needs to merge onto
    the return rail 140. Iftwo cars will arrive at the intersection close enough
    to collide, one of the cars needs to have priority and the other car needs
                                        -50-

     to wait or slow down to allow the first car to go through.
 [00117]      A first method for controlling merging traffic is based on
     determining the next gap large enough for a car to have time to pass
     through an intersection without colliding with another car. In other words,
     if a first car approaches an intersection and it is determined that the gap
     between the first car and a second car is not sufficient for the first car to
     pass through, the first car waits at the intersection until there is a gap
     large enough to allow the first car to pass through.
[00118]       A second method for controlling merging traffic is based on
    determining which car is closest to the homing sensor at the pick station
    310. The car with the shortest distance to the homing sensor gets priority
    at the intersection.
[00119]       Another factor that the traffic controller considers when calculating
    safe distances relates to the position of cars in adjacent columns. In the
    present instance, most of the adjacent columns share a common vertical
    rail. For instance, in Fig. 5, the leftmost column uses vertical rails 130a
    and 130b. The column next to the leftmost column uses vertical rails
    130b and 130c.
                                        -51-

 [00120]     However, in the present instance, some of the columns may have
     two vertical rails 130 that are independent from the adjacent columns.
     For instance, the loading column 300 has two independent rails that are
     not shared with the adjacent column. Therefore, cars can travel up the
     loading column without regard to the position of cars in the column next to
     the loading column. Furthermore, as shown in Fig. 5, it may be desirable
     to configure the column next to the loading column so that it also has two
     independent vertical rails. In this way, cars can more freely travel up the
     loading column and down the adjacent column to provide a buffer loop as
    described previously.
[00121]     Accordingly, when calculating safe distances, the traffic controller
    evaluates the position of cars in adjacent columns ifthe cars share a
    common vertical rail to ensure that the two cars do not collide as the car
    travel down the adjacent columns.
[00122]     Another aspect of the traffic control relates to how the cars are
    sequenced to retrieve items for an order or a series of orders.
    Specifically, in order to efficiently fill orders, the items should be delivered
    to the pick station in a sequence corresponding to the order of the items
                                        -52-

    as required by one or more orders. Specifically, if an order requires for
    separate items stored in four separate locations, it is desirable to retrieve
    the items so that the cars deliver the items to the pick station at generally
    at the same time so that the items can be picked and used to fill the
    order. Accordingly, the central controller 450 calculates the sequence for
    assigning items to a series of cars to be used to fulfill an order.
[00123]    By way of example, the following discussion describes the steps
   that the system takes to fill an order for four separate items stored in four
   separate storage locations. The system 10 will assign each of the four
   items to one of four cars as follows.
[00124]    The central controller 450 calculates the theoretical time it will take
   the cars to retrieve each item in an order. Specifically, for each of the
   items in an order, the central controller calculates the theoretical time it
   will take a car to travel from the pick station to the storage location where
   the item is stored and then from the storage location back to the pick
   station. Although the estimates may be based on the traffic circulating in
   the track, in the present instance, the estimates are calculated as if there
   is no traffic in the track. After the estimates are determined for each item
   in an order, the central controller 450 assigns the items to a series of cars
                                       -53-

    to attempt to have the cars return at approximately the same time.
[00125]      For instance, in an order for four items, the first item may be
    closest to the picking station and the last item may be farthest from the
    picking station, with the second and third items in between. Accordingly,
    the first car may be assigned to retrieve the fourth item, since it will take
    the longest to retrieve. The second and third cars may be assigned the
    second and third items in the order, and the fourth car may be assigned
   the first item in the order since it will take the least amount of time to
    retrieve. In this way, the system controls the sequence of assigning cars
   to retrieve items in order to improve the likelihood that the cars will return
   to the picking station as a series of consecutive cars carrying the items
   for the order. In some applications it is desirable to control the sequence
   of the cars so that the cars arrive at the picking station in the exact
   sequence requested for an order (ie. First item first, second item next,
   etc). However, in many applications it is sufficient to have the cars arrive
   in a sequence of continuous cars having items for the order (i.e.. four cars
   containing the items for the order without any cars in between the four
   cars with items of other orders).
                                      -54-

 [00126]     Although the above description discusses assigning retrieval tasks
     to a series of cars so that the cars return a sequence of cars to fill an
     order, it should be understood that the picking station may be configured
     so that the operator can simultaneously pick items for more than one
     order. Therefore, the system can further improve the flow of cars and the
     timing of the retrieval so that the cars return items for multiple orders. In
     essence, rather than considering the items for only one order and
     assigning the cars to retrieve the items for that order before assigning
     cars for the next order, the system can consider the items for two orders
     in the aggregate and assign the cars for all the items for a plurality of
     orders (such as two or three) as though the items were for a single order
     and assign the cars accordingly. When the cars return with the items, the
     system may then prompt the operator as to which order the item is for,
    such as by providing an indicator on the display at the pick station.
[00127]     Further, in addition to the basic sequencing described above, the
    system may further control the operation of the cars to improve the
    likelihood that the cars arrive at the picking station as a consecutive
    sequence of items for an order. Specifically, after a car retrieves an item,
    the system calculates an estimate of the time required to return to the
    picking station. This time estimate will typically differ from the time
    estimate previously calculated due to traffic along the track that may
                                       -55-

     delay the car. The estimated arrival time is then compared with the
     estimated arrival time of the other items in the order. If the arrival time for
     the car is too early relative to other cars retrieving items for the order, the
     system can delay the car as necessary to control the arrival sequence.
     Additionally, the arrival time may be continuously updated as the car
     travels along the track so that the system can selectively control the
     movement of the cars to delay the cars as necessary to control the arrival
     sequence at the pick station 310. Further, as described above, although
     the discussion describes controlling the sequence of items for a particular
    order, the system may aggregate the items in more than one order if the
    operator is able to pick items for a plurality of orders in parallel rather than
     in strict sequence by order.
 [00128]      As described above, the system assigns the sequence of items
    assigned to the vehicles based on the estimated time to retrieve an item.
    However, it should be understood that typically when a car leaves the
    pick station, the car is carrying an item that needs to be returned to one of
    the storage locations. Therefore, the retrieval time for a new item may
    include the time it will take to return the item before the car is able to pick
    up the next item.
[00129]       In one embodiment, the system may have a generally rigid manner
                                        -56-

    for defining the location where a particular item is stored. Under such a
     method of operation, a particular item is stored in one or more defined
    storage locations, and after such an item is retrieved and delivered to the
    pick station, the car returns to the same storage location from where the
    item was retrieved (or one of a plurality of locations defined to receive
    such items). However, returning an item to the same storage location
    from where the item was retrieved can increase the time required to
    retrieve a new item, since the new item may be located far away from
    where the previous item was located before it was retrieved.
[00130]    Accordingly, when assigning the sequence of items to cars, the
   system may factor in the time it takes to return an item to its original
   storage location and then travel to the location of the new item.
   Alternatively, rather than returning an item to the storage location from
   which it was retrieved, the system may search for the open storage
   location closest to the next item that the car is to retrieve. The car can
   then unload the item into the open storage location before moving to the
   storage location for the next item to be retrieved. The central controller
   then stores the location of the new storage location so that the items can
   be retrieved as necessary. In this way, the system can continuously re
   assign the storage location of items as the items are returned to storage
   locations. In order to improve the likelihood that an open storage location
                                      -57-

     is proximate the next item to be retrieved, in the present instance, the
     array of storage is locations is assigned so that there are more storage
     locations than items to be stored. For instance, each column in the array
     may have one or more empty storage locations. However, the number of
     empty storage locations in a column may fluctuate as items are retrieved
     and returned.
 [00131]     In the foregoing discussion, the delivery of items was described in
     relation to an array of storage locations disposed on the front of the
    sorting station. However, as illustrated in Fig. 1, the number of storage
    locations in the system can be doubled by attaching a rear array of
    storage locations on the back side of the sorting station. In this way, the
    cars can deliver items to storage locations on the front side of the sorting
    station by traveling to the storage location and then driving the
    loading/unloading mechanism 210 to unload the item into the front
    storage location. Alternatively, the cars can deliver items to storage
    locations on the rear side of the sorting station by traveling to the storage
    location and then driving the loading/unloading mechanism 210
    rearwardly to unload the item into the rear storage location.
[00132]     Additionally, the system 100 is modular and can be expanded as
    necessary by attaching an additional section to the left end of the array of
                                      -58-

    storage locations 100. Further, although the foregoing describes the
    array of storage locations as being essentially a two dimensional array in
    which the cars simply travel in X and Y directions, the system can be
    expanded to add additional "runs" of track. Specifically, a separate array
    of locations parallel to or perpendicular to the sorting station illustrated in
    Fig. 1 may be connected to the sorting station. In this way, the car would
    travel in a third dimension relative to the X and Y directions of the sorting
    station illustrated in Fig. 1. For instance, additional sections of track may
    be connected to the sorting station illustrated in Fig. 1 perpendicular to
   the illustrated sorting station, so that the additional track forms an L
   shape intersecting the loading column. In such a configuration, gates
   selectively direct the cars either down the upper rail 135 or rearwardly
   toward the additional track. Similarly, a plurality of parallel rows of
   storage locations can be interconnected so that the cars selectively travel
   along a crossover rail until the car reaches the appropriate row. The car
   then travels down the row until it reaches the appropriate column as
   described above.
[00133]    It will be recognized by those skilled in the art that changes or
   modifications may be made to the above-described embodiments without
   departing from the broad inventive concepts of the invention. For
   instance, in the above description, the system uses a wireless
                                      -59-

    communication between the cars and the central controller. In an
    alternative embodiment, a communication line may be installed on the
    track and the cars may communicate with the central controller over a
    hard wired communication link.
    INPUT STATION
[00134]    An input station 350 can be provided for storing new items in the
    system or for re-stocking the storage locations as the item are used to fill
    orders. A variety of mechanisms can be used to stock items into the
    system 10. For instance, input areas can be placed on the vertical rails
    leading away from the picking station 310. The input area would be
   similar to storage locations 100 so that a vehicle can move to the input
   area an retrieve the new items in the same way that the vehicle retrieves
   items from the storage area during normal operation. However, the input
   area would interface with a conveyor or other mechanism from outside
   the track 110, for loading items into the input area. Additionally, the input
   station 350 may include a plurality of input areas. For instance, three
   input areas may be positioned along the vertical rail, with the three input
   locations being located over top one another. In this way, a plurality of
   input locations can be used to load items onto cars 200 to re-stock items
   in the system 10. If a plurality of input locations are used, preferably each
   input location operates in connection with an input mechanism for loading
                                     -60-

     items into the input locations.
 [00135]     The input station 350 communicates with and may be controlled by
     the central controller 450. For instance, the input station 350 may include
     a scanner or other input mechanism for scanner an identification item,
     such as a bar code on the new items to be stored in the system.
     Alternatively, an operator may identify the items at the input station and
     input identifying information into the system via an operator interface,
     such as a keyboard or touch screen. In this way, the system may
     automatically identify new stock items or an operator may input
     information into the system manually or a combination of automatic and
     manual data entry may be used.
[00136]     In the foregoing description, the system is described as having a
    single input station 350. However, it may be desirable to incorporate a
    plurality of input stations positioned along the system 10. By using a
    plurality of input stations, the feed rate of re-stocking items or adding new
    items may be increased. In addition, the input stations may be configured
    to process different types of items. In this way, each input station could
    be configured to efficiently process a particular category of items.
                                       -61-

       ayc
     H'ncrovo'RPonb\DCCUZC
                         60617231 ticx-24/II/20I17
                                                   - 62
 [137] It should therefore be understood that this invention is not limited to the
 particular embodiments described herein, but is intended to include all changes and
modifications that are within the scope and spirit of the invention as set forth in the
claims.
[138] The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information
derived from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as,
an acknowledgement or admission or any form of suggestion that that prior
publication (or information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common
general knowledge in the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.
[139] Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" or
"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or
group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group
of integers or steps.

      H~ckrovd R~nbhCC206i602_1 I.doce24/iII/20D1
                                                   - 63
                                                  Claims
  1.        A material handling system, comprising:
            a plurality of storage locations;
            a track adjacent the storage locations, wherein a first group of the storage
 locations is disposed on a first side of the track and a second group of the storage
 locations is disposed on a second side of the track;
            a plurality of vehicles for delivering items to the storage locations or retrieving
 items from the storage locations, wherein the vehicles travel along the track in an
 aisle between the first and second groups of storage locations;
            an output station positioned along the track;
            a controller for independently controlling each vehicle, wherein the controller is
 configured to control one of the vehicles to retrieve an item from one of the storage
 locations and then advance the vehicle with the item toward the output station,
wherein when the vehicle approaches the output station the controller is configured to
 control the vehicle so that the vehicle drives upwardly and stops at the output station
to present the contents to the operator so that the operator can readily remove the
 item from the vehicle, wherein the controller is further configured to advance the
vehicle away from the output station after the operator removes the item from the
vehicle.
2.         The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the track curves away from the output station
so that the vehicles move laterally away from the output station and then vertically
upwardly away from the output station.
3.         The apparatus of claim 1 or 2 wherein the output station is disposed at an end
of the aisle.
4.         The apparatus of any of claims 1 to 3 wherein the vehicles engage the track so
that the vehicles maintain a substantially horizontal orientation as the vehicles move
from a vertical direction of travel to a horizontal direction of travel.

  H:j~.chknIIV(  NPOrtbl\CC\ZCI6t23 I.dtcx-24/il/20117
                                                       - 64
 5.             The apparatus of any of claims 1 to 5 wherein the track comprises a first track
 and a second track spaced apart from the second track wherein wheels on a first side
 of the vehicles engage the first track and wheels on a second side of the vehicles
 engage the second track.
 6.             The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the first group of storage locations is
 disposed along the first track and the second group of storage locations is disposed
 along the second track.
 7.             The apparatus of any of claims 1 to 6 wherein the track comprises an end
 column formed between first and second vertical sections of track, wherein the output
 station is located adjacent the end column laterally spaced from the end column.
 8.             The apparatus of any of claims 1 to 7 wherein the output station is laterally
 spaced apart from the storage locations.
 9.             The apparatus of any of claims 1 to 8 wherein the controller is configured to
 control the advancement of the vehicles to present items to the operator at the output
 station.
 10.            The apparatus of any of claims 1 to 9 wherein the track is configured so that a
rearward end of each vehicle is raised upwardly relative to the forward end of the
vehicle at the output station.
11.             The apparatus of any of claims 1 to 10 wherein each vehicle includes a
transfer mechanism for transferring items between the vehicle and one of the storage
locations.
12.            A material handling system, comprising:
               a plurality of storage locations;

  WjrclnknvrOovoNRPrIbl\DCClZC16106723/Tcx-241 /Oll
                                                    - 65
               a track adjacent the storage locations comprising a plurality of generally
 vertical rail sections forming a row of columns and a plurality of generally horizontal
  rail sections interconnecting the columns forming a vertical loop;
              a plurality of vehicles for delivering items to the storage locations or retrieving
 items from the storage locations, wherein the vehicles travel along the track around
 the vertical loop;
              an output station positioned along the track at an end of the row of columns,
 wherein the output station is configured so that an operator can readily remove items
 from the vehicles when the vehicles stop at the output station;
              wherein a first group of the storage locations is disposed on a first side of the
 track and a second group of the storage locations is disposed on a second side of the
 track so that an aisle is formed between the first and second groups of storage
 locations, wherein the output station is positioned at an end of the aisle;
              wherein the track curves away from the output station so that the vehicles
 move laterally away from the output station and then vertically upwardly away from
the output station.
 13.          The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the storage locations are arranged in
columns along the columns of the track
14.           The apparatus of claim 12 or 13 comprising a plurality of gates along the track,
wherein each gate is operable between a first position and a second position for
selectively change the direction of travel for a vehicle between a horizontal direction
and a vertical direction as the vehicle travels along the track.
15.           The apparatus of any of claims 12 to 14 wherein the vehicles engage the track
so that the vehicles maintain a substantially horizontal orientation as the vehicles
move from a vertical direction of travel to a horizontal direction of travel.
16.           The apparatus of any of claims 12 to 15 wherein the output station is laterally
spaced apart from the storage locations.

  lH:\IwVeI ,vNRPoribl\DCC\JZC\i    &. -24111/2017
                             6061723_1
                                                   - 66
  17.          The apparatus of any of claims 12 to 16 comprising a controller configured to
  control the advancement of the vehicles to present items to the operator at the output
  station.
  18.          The apparatus of any of claims 12 to 17 wherein the track is configured so that
 a rearward end of each vehicle is raised upwardly relative to the forward end of the
 vehicle at the output station.
  19.         A method for handling materials, comprising the steps of material handling
 system, comprising:
              driving a plurality of vehicles along a track to storage locations, wherein the
 track comprises a plurality of generally vertical rail sections forming a row of columns
 and a plurality of generally horizontal rail sections interconnecting the columns
 forming a vertical loop;
              transferring items between the vehicles and the storage locations;
              driving the vehicles to an output station positioned along the track at an end of
 the row of columns;
              stopping the vehicle at the output station;
              removing an item from one of the vehicles when the vehicle is stopped at the
output station; and
             driving the vehicles laterally away from the output station and then vertically
 upwardly away from the output station after the step of removing an item.
20.          The method of claim 19 wherein a first group of the storage locations is
disposed on a first side of the track and a second group of the storage locations is
disposed on a second side of the track so that an aisle is formed between the first
and second groups of storage locations, wherein the output station is positioned at an
end of the aisle and the step of driving the vehicles comprises driving the vehicles
through the aisle.

  jzc0httawi                       723_I.doex-24/11/2017
             11\NwtRPortbl\DCCUZCI66
                                                         - 67
 21.          The method of claim 20 or 21 wherein a plurality of gates are positioned along
the track and the method comprises the step of selectively actuating each gate
 between a first position and a second position for selectively change the direction of
travel for a vehicle between a horizontal direction and a vertical direction as the
vehicle travels along the track.
22.            The method of any of claims 19 to 21 wherein the step of driving the vehicles
comprises driving the vehicles so that the vehicles maintain a substantially horizontal
orientation as the vehicles move from a vertical direction of travel to a horizontal
direction of travel.
23.            The method of any of claims 19 to 22 comprising the step of controlling the
advancement of the vehicles to present items to an operator at the output station.
24.            The method of any of claims 19 to 23 comprising the step of raising a
rearward end of each vehicle upwardly relative to the forward end of the vehicle at the
output station.
25.          The method of claim 24 wherein the step of raising a rearward end of each
vehicle comprises the step of displacing a portion of the track.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
