                       ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
             Extended pain relief via high frequency spinal cord modulation, and
associated systems and methods. A method for treating a patient in accordance
with a particular embodiment includes selecting a neural modulation site to include
at least one of a dorsal root entry zone and dorsal horn of the patient's spinal cord,
and selecting parameters of a neural modulation signal to reduce patient pain for a
period of time after ceasing delivery of the signals, the period of time being at least
one tenth of one second.

WO 2012/075198                                   PCT/US2011/062722
                                 1/9
                               1l
               118                         189
                             112
               119                                  110
                                            1110
                                                   190
                                121
                     12 12'3        -124
                1125
                           F      .      4                125
                           Fig. I1A

           EXTENDED PAIN RELIEF VIA HIGH FREQUENCY SPINAL
           CORD MODULATION, AND ASSOCIATED SYSTEMS AND
                                    METHODS
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
[0001]      The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application
No. 61/418,379, filed on November 30, 2010, and incorporated herein by
reference.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002]      The present technology is directed generally to extended pain relief
obtained via high frequency spinal cord modulation, and associated systems and
methods.
BACKGROUND
[0003]      Neurological stimulators have been developed to treat pain, movement
disorders, functional disorders, spasticity, cancer, cardiac disorders, and various
other medical conditions. Implantable neurological stimulation systems generally
have an implantable pulse generator and one or more leads that deliver electrical
pulses to neurological tissue or muscle tissue. For example, several neurological
stimulation systems for spinal cord stimulation (SCS) have cylindrical leads that
include a lead body with a circular cross-sectional shape and one or more
conductive rings spaced apart from each other at the distal end of the lead body.
The conductive rings operate as individual electrodes and, in many cases, the
SCS leads are implanted percutaneously through a large needle inserted into the
epidural space, with or without the assistance of a stylet.
[0004]      Once implanted, the pulse generator applies electrical pulses to the
electrodes, which in turn modify the function of the patient's nervous system, such
as by altering the patient's responsiveness to sensory stimuli and/or altering the
patient's motor-circuit output.   In pain treatment, the pulse generator applies
                                          -1-

electrical pulses to the electrodes, which in turn can generate sensations that
mask or otherwise alter the patient's sensation of pain.        For example, in many
cases, patients report a tingling or paresthesia that is perceived as more pleasant
and/or less uncomfortable than the underlying pain sensation. While this may be
the case for many patients, many other patients may report less beneficial effects
and/or results. Accordingly, there remains a need for improved techniques and
systems for addressing patient pain.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0005]        Figure 1A is a partially schematic illustration of an implantable spinal
cord modulation system positioned at the spine to deliver therapeutic signals in
accordance with several embodiments of the present disclosure.
[0006]        Figure 1B is a partially schematic, cross-sectional illustration of a
patient's spine, illustrating representative locations for implanted lead bodies in
accordance with embodiments of the disclosure.
[0007]        Figure 2A is a graph illustrating representative patient VAS scores as a
function of time for multiple patients receiving therapy in accordance with
embodiments of the disclosure.
[0008]        Figure 2B is a graph illustrating normalized pain scores for the patients
identified in Figure 2A, during an initial post-trial period.
[0009]        Figure 3 is a partially schematic, isometric illustration of an animal
spinal cord segment and associated nerve structures, used to demonstrate
techniques in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0010]        Figure 4 is a graph illustrating stimulus and response characteristics as
a function of time for an animal receiving noxious electrical stimulation in
accordance with an embodiment of the disclosure.
[0011]        Figures 5A-5E illustrate response data for an animal receiving noxious
electrical stimulation and therapy in accordance with an embodiment of the
disclosure.
[0012]        Figures 6A-6F illustrate animal response data for animals receiving
noxious pinch stimuli in accordance with another embodiment of the disclosure.
                                             -2-

[0013]       Figure 7 is a graphical illustration comparing modulation amplitude
effects for standard SCS with those for the presently disclosed technology.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
1.0     Introduction
[0014]       The present technology is directed generally to spinal cord modulation
and associated systems and methods for inhibiting or otherwise reducing pain via
waveforms with high frequency elements or components (e.g., portions having high
fundamental frequencies), generally with reduced or eliminated side effects. Such
side effects     can    include unwanted      motor stimulation   or blocking,   and/or
interference with sensory functions other than the targeted pain, and/or patient
proprioception.    Several embodiments continue to provide pain relief for at least
some period of time after the spinal cord modulation signals have ceased.
Specific details of certain embodiments of the disclosure are described below with
reference to methods for modulating one or more target neural populations (e.g.,
nerves) or sites of a patient, and associated implantable structures for providing
the modulation. The following sections also describe physiological mechanisms by
which it is expected that methods in accordance with certain embodiments achieve
the observed results. Some embodiments can have configurations, components
or procedures       different than those described       in this section,    and other
embodiments may eliminate particular components or procedures. A person of
ordinary skill in the relevant art, therefore, will understand that the disclosure may
include other embodiments with additional elements, and/or may include other
embodiments without several of the features shown and described below with
reference to Figures 1A-7.
[0015]        In general terms, aspects of many of the following embodiments are
directed to producing a therapeutic effect that includes pain reduction in the
patient.    The therapeutic effect can be produced by inhibiting, suppressing,
downregulating, blocking, preventing, or otherwise modulating the activity of the
affected neural population.      In many embodiments of the presently disclosed
techniques, therapy-induced paresthesia is not a prerequisite to achieving pain
reduction, unlike standard SCS techniques. It is also expected that the techniques
                                            -3-

described below with reference to Figures 1A-7 can produce longer lasting results
than can existing spinal cord stimulation therapies. In particular, these techniques
can produce results that persist after the modulation signal ceases. Accordingly,
these techniques can use less power than existing techniques because they need
not require delivering modulation signals continuously to obtain a beneficial effect.
[0016]       Several aspects of the technology are embodied in computing devices,
e.g.,  programmed/programmable         pulse generators, controllers and/or other
devices.    The computing devices on which the described technology can be
implemented may include one or more central processing units, memory, input
devices (e.g., input ports), output devices (e.g., display devices), storage devices,
and network devices (e.g., network interfaces). The memory and storage devices
are computer-readable media that may store instructions that implement the
technology.    In many embodiments, the computer readable media are tangible
media. In other embodiments, the data structures and message structures may be
stored or transmitted via an intangible data transmission medium, such as a signal
on a communications link. Various suitable communications links may be used,
including but not limited to a local area network and/or a wide-area network.
2.0    Overall System Characteristics
[0017]       Figure 1A schematically illustrates a representative patient system 100
for providing relief from chronic pain and/or other conditions, arranged relative to
the general anatomy of a patient's spinal cord 191. The overall patient system 100
can include a signal delivery system 110, which may be implanted within a patient
190, typically at or near the patient's midline 189, and coupled to a pulse generator
121. The signal delivery system 110 can provide therapeutic electrical signals to
the patient during operation.      In a representative example, the signal delivery
system 110 includes a signal delivery device 111 that carries features for delivering
therapy to the patient 190 after implantation.      The pulse generator 121 can be
connected directly to the signal delivery device 111, or it can be coupled to the
signal delivery device 111 via a signal link 113 (e.g., an extension). In a further
representative embodiment, the signal delivery device 111 can include an
elongated lead or lead body 112. As used herein, the terms "lead" and "lead body"
include any of a number of suitable substrates and/or support members that carry
                                           -4-

devices for providing therapy signals to the patient 190. For example, the lead 112
can include one or more electrodes or electrical contacts that direct electrical
signals into the patient's tissue, such as to provide for patient relief.    In other
embodiments, the signal delivery device 111 can include structures other than a
lead body (e.g., a paddle) that also direct electrical signals and/or other types of
signals to the patient 190.
[0018]       The pulse generator 121 can transmit signals (e.g., electrical signals)
to the signal delivery device 111 that up-regulate (e.g., stimulate or excite) and/or
down-regulate (e.g., block or suppress) target nerves. As used herein, and unless
otherwise noted, the terms "modulate" and "modulation" refer generally to signals
that have either type of the foregoing effects on the target nerves.      The pulse
generator 121 can include a machine-readable (e.g., computer-readable) medium
containing instructions for generating and transmitting suitable therapy signals.
The pulse generator 121 and/or other elements of the system 100 can include one
or more processors 122, memories 123 and/or input/output devices. Accordingly,
the process of providing modulation signals, providing guidance information for
locating the signal delivery device 111, and/or executing other associated functions
can be performed by computer-executable instructions contained by computer
readable media located at the pulse generator 121             and/or other system
components.     The pulse generator 121 can include multiple portions, elements,
and/or subsystems (e.g., for directing signals in accordance with multiple signal
delivery parameters), carried in a single housing, as shown in Figure 1A, or in
multiple housings.
[0019]       In some embodiments, the pulse generator 121 can obtain power to
generate the therapy signals from an external power source 118. The external
power source 118 can transmit power to the implanted pulse generator 121 using
electromagnetic induction (e.g., RF signals).     For example, the external power
source    118 can include an external coil 119 that communicates with a
corresponding internal coil (not shown) within the implantable pulse generator 121.
The external power source 118 can be portable for ease of use.
[0020]       During at least some procedures, an external programmer 120 (e.g., a
trial modulator) can be coupled to the signal delivery device 111 during an initial
                                          -5-

procedure, prior to implanting the pulse generator 121. For example, a practitioner
(e.g., a physician and/or a company representative) can use the external
programmer 120 to vary the modulation parameters provided to the signal delivery
device 111 in real time, and select optimal or particularly efficacious parameters.
These parameters can include the location from which the electrical signals are
emitted, as well as the characteristics of the electrical signals provided to the signal
delivery device 111.      In a typical process, the practitioner uses a cable assembly
114 to temporarily connect the external programmer 120 to the signal delivery
device 111. The practitioner can test the efficacy of the signal delivery device 111
in an initial position. The practitioner can then disconnect the cable assembly 114
(e.g., at a connector 117), reposition the signal delivery device 111, and reapply
the electrical modulation.       This process can be performed iteratively until the
practitioner obtains the desired position for the signal delivery device 111.
Optionally, the practitioner may move the partially implanted signal delivery
element 111 without disconnecting the cable assembly 114.
[0021]        After a trial period with the external programmer 120, the practitioner
can implant the implantable pulse generator 121 within the patient 190 for longer
term treatment. The signal delivery parameters provided by the pulse generator
121 can still be updated after the pulse generator 121 is implanted, via a wireless
physician's programmer 125 (e.g., a physician's remote) and/or a wireless patient
programmer 124 (e.g., a patient remote).         Generally, the patient 190 has control
over fewer parameters than does the practitioner.
[0022]        Figure 1B is a cross-sectional illustration of the spinal cord 191 and an
adjacent vertebra 195 (based generally on information from Crossman and Neary,
"Neuroanatomy," 1995 (published by Churchill Livingstone)), along with multiple
signal delivery devices 111         (shown as signal delivery devices 111a-111d)
implanted at representative locations. For purposes of illustration, multiple signal
delivery devices 111 are shown in Figure 1B implanted in a single patient.            In
actual use, any given patient will likely receive fewer than all the signal delivery
devices 111 shown in Figure 1B.
[0023]        The spinal cord 191 is situated within a vertebral foramen 188,
between a ventrally located ventral body 196 and a dorsally located transverse
                                             -6-

process 198 and spinous process 197. Arrows V and D identify the ventral and
dorsal directions, respectively. The spinal cord 191 itself is located within the dura
mater 199, which also surrounds portions of the nerves exiting the spinal cord 191,
including the ventral roots 192, dorsal roots 193 and dorsal root ganglia 194. The
dorsal roots 193 enter the spinal cord 191 at the dorsal root entry zone 187, and
communicate with dorsal horn neurons located at the dorsal horn 186.             In one
embodiment, a single first signal delivery device 111a is positioned within the
vertebral foramen 188, at or approximately at the spinal cord midline 189.            In
another embodiment, two second signal delivery devices 111 b are positioned just
off the spinal cord midline 189 (e.g., about 1 mm. offset) in opposing lateral
directions so that the two signal delivery devices 111 b are spaced apart from each
other by about 2 mm.      In still further embodiments, a single signal delivery device
or pairs of signal delivery devices can be positioned at other locations, e.g., toward
the outer edge of the dorsal root entry zone 187 as shown by a third signal delivery
device 111 c, or at the dorsal root ganglia 194, as shown by a fourth signal delivery
device 111d. As will be described in further detail later, it is believed that high
frequency modulation at or near the dorsal root entry zone 187, and/or at or near
the dorsal horn 186 can produce effective patient pain relief, without paresthesia,
without adverse sensory or motor effects, and in a manner that persists after the
modulation ceases.
3.0     Representative Results from Human Studies
[0024]       Nevro Corporation, the assignee of the present application, has
conducted several in-human clinical studies during which multiple patients were
treated with the techniques, systems and devices that are disclosed herein. Nevro
also commissioned animal studies focusing on mechanisms of action for the newly
developed techniques.       The human clinical studies are described immediately
below and the animal studies are discussed thereafter.
[0025]       Figure 2A is a graph illustrating results from patients who received
therapy in accordance with the presently disclosed technology to treat chronic low
back pain.     In general, the therapy included high-frequency modulation at the
patient's spinal cord, typically between vertebral levels T9 and T12 (inclusive), at
an average location of mid T-10.           The modulation signals were applied at a
                                             -7-

frequency of about 10kHz, and at current amplitudes of from about 2.5mA to about
3mA. Pulse widths were about 35 psec., at 100% duty cycle. Further details of
representative modulation parameters are included in co-pending U.S. Patent
Application No. 12/765,747, filed on April 22, 2010 and incorporated herein by
reference.    To the extent the foregoing and/or any other materials incorporated
herein by reference conflict with the present disclosure, the present disclosure
controls.
[0026]        The graph shown in Figure 2A illustrates visual analog scale ("VAS")
scores for seven representative patients as a function of time during a clinical
study. Individual lines for each patient are indicated with circled numbers in Figure
2A, and the average is indicated by the circled letter "A". The VAS pain scale
ranges from zero (corresponding to no sensed pain) to 10 (corresponding to
unbearable pain). At the far left of Figure 2A are VAS scores taken at a baseline
point in time 145, corresponding to the patients' pain levels before receiving any
high frequency modulation therapy. During a trial period 140, the patients received
a high frequency modulation therapy in accordance with the foregoing parameters
and the patients' VAS scores dropped significantly up to an end of trial point 146.
In addition, many patients readily reduced or eliminated their intake of pain
medications, despite the narcotic characteristics of these medications. During an
initial post-trial period 141 (lasting, in this case, four days), the patients' VAS
scores increased on average after the high frequency modulation therapy has
been halted. The rate at which pain returned after the end of the trial period varied
among patients, however, as will be discussed in further detail later. Following the
four-day initial post-trial period 141 was an interim period 142 that lasted from
about 45 days to about 80 days (depending on the patient), with the average being
about 62 days.       After the interim period 142, a four-day pre-IPG period 143
commenced ending at an IPG point 144. At the IPG point 144, the patients were
implanted with an implantable pulse generator 121, generally similar to that
described above with reference to Figure 1A.
[0027]        The VAS scores recorded at the baseline 145 and the end of the trial
146 were obtained by the patients recording their levels of pain directly to the
                                           -8-

practitioner. During the initial post-trial period 141 and the pre-IPG period 143, the
patients tracked their VAS score in patient diaries.
[0028]       Figure 2B illustrates data in the initial post-trial period 141 described
above with reference to Figure 2A. For each patient, the pain levels reported in
Figure 2A as VAS scores are shown in Figure 2B as normalized by evaluating the
patient's pain level at the end of trial 146 and at the IPG point 144. Accordingly,
for each patient, the normalized pain value is zero at the end of trial 146, and
100% at the IPG point 144. As shown in Figure 2B, the patients generally fell into
two categories: a first group for whom the pain scores rapidly rose from 0% to
nearly 100% within a span of about one day after the end of trial 146 (represented
by lines 1, 2, 3 and 5); and a second group for whom the pain increase was more
gradual, spanning several days before reaching levels above 50% (represented by
lines 4, 6 and 7).      Accordingly, the data indicate that the patients' pain levels
increased compared to the levels obtained at the end of trial 146; however,
different patients re-developed pain at different rates. The resolution of the data
shown in Figure 2B is not fine enough to identify precisely how long it took for the
patients in the first group to feel a recurrence of high pain levels. However, it was
observed by those conducting the studies that the return of the pain for all seven
patients was more gradual than is typically associated with standard SCS
methodologies.      In particular, practitioners having experience with both standard
SCS and the presently disclosed technology observed that patients receiving SCS
immediately (e.g., within milliseconds) experience a return of pain upon halting the
SCS treatment, while the return of pain for patients receiving the presently
disclosed therapy was more gradual.              Accordingly, it is expected that the
persistence effect of the presently disclosed therapy after being administered for
two weeks, is likely to be on the order of minutes or hours and, (for many patients),
less than one day. It is also believed that the persistence effect may depend at
least in part on how long the therapy was applied before it was halted. That is, it is
expected that, within a given time period, the longer the patient receives the
presently disclosed therapy, the longer the beneficial effect lasts after the therapy
signals are halted. Accordingly, it is expected that the presently disclosed therapy
can produce effects lasting at least one tenth of one second, at least one second,
at least one minute, at least one hour, and/or at least one day, unlike standard
                                             -9-

SCS techniques, which typically produce effects lasting only milliseconds after the
electrical signal ceases. In still further embodiments, it is expected that at least
some of the lasting effect described above can be obtained by reducing the
intensity (e.g., the current amplitude) of the therapy signal, without ceasing the
signal altogether. In at least some embodiments (whether the signal intensity is
reduced to zero or to a non-zero value), it is expected that a long enough
modulation period can produce a neuroplastic or other change that can last
indefinitely, to permanently reduce or eliminate patient pain.
[0029]        An expected benefit of the persistence or long term effect described
above is that it can reduce the need to deliver the therapy signals continuously.
Instead, the signals can be delivered intermittently without significantly affecting
pain relief. This arrangement can reduce power consumption, thus extending the
life of an implanted battery or other power system.     It is expected that the power
can be cycled according to schedules other than the one explicitly shown in
Figures 2A and 2B (e.g., other than two weeks on and up to one day off before a
significant pain recurrence). The following discussion describes expected potential
mechanisms of action by which the presently disclosed therapy operates, including
expected mechanisms by which the presently disclosed therapy produces effects
persisting after electrical modulation signals have ceased.
4.0      Representative Results from Animal Studies
[0030]        Figure 3 is a partially schematic, isometric view of a portion of an
animal spinal cord 391 illustrative of a study that was performed on a rat model to
illustrate the    principles described    herein.   Accordingly,    in   this particular
embodiment, the illustrated spinal cord 391 is that of a rat. During this study, a
noxious electrical stimulation 370 was applied to the rat's hind paw 384. Afferent
pain signals triggered by the noxious stimulation 370 traveled along a peripheral
nerve 385 to the dorsal root ganglion 394 and then to the dorsal root 393 at the L5
vertebral level. The dorsal root 393 joins the spinal cord 391 at the dorsal root
entry zone 387, and transmits afferent signals to a dorsal horn neuron 383 located
at the dorsal horn 386.      The dorsal horn neuron 383 includes a wide dynamic
range ("WDR") cell.         An extracellular microelectrode 371       recorded signals
transmitted by the dorsal horn neuron 383 to the rat's brain, in response to the
                                           -10-

noxious stimulation 370 received at the hind paw 384. A therapeutic modulation
signal 326 was applied at the dorsal root entry zone 387, proximate to the dorsal
horn 386.
[0031]       Figure 4 is a graph illustrating neural signal amplitude as a function of
time, measured by the recording electrode 371 described above with reference to
Figure 3.   Figure 4 identifies the noxious stimulation 370 itself, the dorsal horn
neuron's response to A-fiber inputs 372, and the dorsal horn neuron's response to
C-fiber inputs 373. The larger A-fibers trigger an earlier response at the dorsal
horn neuron than do the smaller C-fibers. Both responses are triggered by the
same noxious stimulus 370.      The rat's pain response is indicated by downward
amplitude spikes.    The foregoing response is a typical response to a noxious
stimulus, absent pain modulation therapy.
[0032]       Figures 5A-5E illustrate the dorsal horn neuron response to ongoing
noxious stimuli as the applied therapy signal was altered. The signal applied to
each rat was applied at a constant frequency, which varied from rat to rat over a
range of from about 3kHz to about 100kHz.           The response data (which were
obtained from nine rats) were relatively insensitive to frequency over this range.
During the course of this study, the noxious stimuli were provided repeatedly at a
constant rate of one stimulus per second over an approximately five-minute period.
At the outset of the five-minute period, the therapy signal was turned off, resulting
in a baseline response 574a shown in Figure 5A, and then gradually increased as
shown in Figure 5B, to a maximum intensity shown in Figure 5C. During the period
shown in Figure 5D, the intensity of the therapy signal was reduced, and in Figure
5E, the therapy signal was turned off. Consistent with the data shown in Figure 4,
the rat's pain response is indicated by downward spikes. The baseline response
574a has a relatively large number of spikes, and the number of spikes begins to
reduce as the intensity of the modulation signal is increased (see response 574b in
Figure 5B). At the maximum therapy signal intensity, the number of spikes has
been reduced to nearly zero as indicated by response 574c in Figure 5C. As the
therapy signal intensity is then reduced, the spikes begin to return (see response
574d, Figure 5D), and when the modulation signal is turned off, the spikes
continue to return (see response 574e, Figure 5E). Significantly, the number of
                                           -11-

spikes shown in Figure 5E (10-20 seconds after the therapy has been turned off) is
not as great as the number of spikes generated in the baseline response 574a
shown in Figure 5A. These data are accordingly consistent with the human trial
data described above with reference to Figures 2A and 2B, which indicated a
beneficial effect lasting beyond the cessation of the therapy signal. These data
also differ significantly from results obtained from similar studies conducted with
standard SCS.      Notably, dorsal horn recordings during standard SCS treatments
do not indicate a reduction in amplitude spikes.
[0033]       Figures 6A-6F illustrate animal response data in a rat model to a
different noxious stimulus; in particular, a pinch stimulus 670. The pinch stimulus
is a mechanical pinch (rather than an electrical stimulus) at the rat's hindpaw. In
each succeeding figure in the series of Figures 6A-6F, the amplitude of the therapy
signal was increased.       The levels to which the signal amplitude was increased
were significantly higher than for the human study simply due to a cruder (e.g., less
efficient) coupling between the signal delivery electrode and the target neural
population. The vertical axis of each Figure indicates the number of spikes (e.g.,
the spike-shaped inputs 372, 373 shown in Figure 3) per bin; that is, the number of
spikes occurring during a given time period. In the particular embodiment shown in
Figures 6A-6F, each bin has a duration of 0.2 second, so that there are a total of
five bins per second, or 10 bins during each two-second period.           The pinch
stimulus 670 lasts for three to five seconds in each of Figures 6A-6F. In Figure 6A,
the baseline response 674a indicates a large number of spikes per bin extending
over the duration of the pinch stimulus 670.        As shown in Figures 6B-6F, the
number of spikes per bin decreases, as indicated by responses 674b-674f,
respectively.   In the final Figure in this series (Figure 6F), the response 674f is
insignificant or nearly insignificant when compared with the baseline response
674a shown in Figure 6A.
[0034]       The foregoing rat data was confirmed in a subsequent study using a
large animal model (goat). Based on these data, it is clear that therapy signals in
accordance with the present technology reduce pain; further, that they do so in a
manner consistent with that observed during the human studies.
                                           -12-

[0035]       Returning now to Figure 3, it is expected (without being bound by
theory) that the therapy signals act to reduce pain via one or both of two
mechanisms: (1) by reducing neural transmissions entering the spinal cord at the
dorsal root 393 and/or the dorsal root entry zone 387, and/or (2) by reducing
neural activity at the dorsal horn 386 itself. It is further expected that the therapy
signals described in the context of the rat model shown in Figure 3 operate in a
similar manner on the corresponding structures of the human anatomy, e.g., those
shown in Figure 1B. In particular, it is generally known that chronic pain patients
may be in a state of prolonged sensory sensitization at both the nociceptive
afferent neurons (e.g., the peripheral nerve 385 and the associated dorsal root
393) and at higher order neural systems (e.g., the dorsal horn neuron 383). It is
also known that the dorsal horn neurons 383 (e.g., the WDR cells) are sensitized
in chronic pain states. The noxious stimuli applied during the animal studies can
result in an acute "windup" of the WDR cells (e.g., to a hyperactive state).         In
accordance with mechanism (1) above, it is believed that the therapy signals
applied using the current technology operate to reduce pain by reducing,
suppressing, and/or attenuating the afferent nociceptive inputs delivered to the
WDR cells 383, as it is expected that these inputs, unless attenuated, can be
responsible for the sensitized state of the WDR cells 383. In accordance with
mechanism (2) above, it is expected that the presently disclosed therapy can act
directly on the WDR cells 383 to desensitize these cells. In particular, the patients
selected to receive the therapy described above with reference to Figures 2A-2B
included patients whose pain was not correlated with peripheral stimuli. In other
words, these patients had hypersensitive WDR cells 383 independent of whether
signals were transmitted to the WDR cells 383 via peripheral nerve inputs or not.
These patients, along with the other treated patients, experienced the significant
pain reductions described above.     Accordingly, it is believed that the disclosed
therapy can operate directly on the WDR cells 383 to reduce the activity level of
hyperactive WDR cells 383, and/or can reduce incoming afferent signals from the
peripheral nerve 385 and dorsal root 393. It is further believed that the effect of
the presently disclosed therapy on peripheral inputs may produce short term pain
relief, and the effect on the WDR cells may produce longer term pain relief.
Whether the reduced output of the WDR cells results from mechanism (1),
                                         -13-

mechanism      (2), or both,    it is further expected that the high        frequency
characteristics of the therapeutic signals produce the observed results. In addition,
embodiments of the presently disclosed therapy produce pain reduction without
the side effects generally associated with standard SCS, as discussed further in
co-pending U.S. Patent Application No. 12/765,747, filed on April 22, 2010,
previously incorporated herein by reference.          These and other advantages
associated with embodiments of the presently disclosed technology are described
further below.
[0036]       Certain of the foregoing embodiments can produce one or more of a
variety of advantages, for the patient and/or the practitioner, when compared with
standard SCS therapies.       Some of these benefits were described above.         For
example, the patient can receive beneficial effects from the modulation therapy
after the modulation signal has ceased.         In addition, the patient can receive
effective pain relief without simultaneous paresthesia, without simultaneous
patient-detectable disruptions to normal sensory signals along the spinal cord,
and/or without simultaneous patient-detectable disruptions to normal motor signals
along the spinal cord.    In particular embodiments, while the therapy may create
some effect on normal motor and/or sensory signals, the effect is below a level that
the patient can reliably detect intrinsically, e.g., without the aid of external
assistance via instruments or other devices. Accordingly, the patient's levels of
motor signaling and other sensory signaling (other than signaling associated with
the target pain) can be maintained at pre-treatment levels.         For example, the
patient can experience a significant pain reduction that is largely independent of
the patient's movement and position.        In particular, the patient can assume a
variety of positions and/or undertake a variety of movements associated with
activities of daily living and/or other activities, without the need to adjust the
parameters in accordance with which the therapy is applied to the patient (e.g., the
signal amplitude). This result can greatly simplify the patient's life and reduce the
effort required by the patient to experience pain relief while engaging in a variety of
activities.  This result can also provide an improved lifestyle for patients who
experience pain during sleep.
                                          -14-

[0037]       Even for patients who receive a therapeutic benefit from changes in
signal amplitude, the foregoing therapy can provide advantages.        For example,
such patients can choose from a limited number of programs (e.g., two or three)
each with a different amplitude and/or other signal delivery parameter, to address
some or all of the patient's pain. In one such example, the patient activates one
program before sleeping and another after waking. In another such example, the
patient activates one program before sleeping, a second program after waking,
and a third program before engaging in particular activities that would otherwise
cause pain. This reduced set of patient options can greatly simplify the patient's
ability to easily manage pain, without reducing (and in fact, increasing) the
circumstances under which the therapy effectively addresses pain.            In any
embodiments that include multiple programs, the patient's workload can be further
reduced by automatically detecting a change in patient circumstance, and
automatically   identifying  and  delivering  the  appropriate    therapy  regimen.
Additional details of such techniques and associated systems are disclosed in co
pending U.S. Application No. 12/703,683, incorporated herein by reference.
[0038]      Another benefit observed during clinical studies is that when the
patient does experience a change in the therapy level, it is a gradual change. This
is unlike typical changes associated with conventional SCS therapies.          With
conventional SCS therapies, if a patient changes position and/or changes an
amplitude setting, the patient can experience a sudden onset of pain, often
described by patients as unbearable. By contrast, patients in the clinical studies
described above, when treated with the presently disclosed therapy, reported a
gradual onset of pain when signal amplitude was increased beyond a threshold
level, and/or when the patient changed position, with the pain described as
gradually becoming uncomfortable. One patient described a sensation akin to a
cramp coming on, but never fully developing. This significant difference in patient
response to changes in signal delivery parameters can allow the patient to more
freely change signal delivery parameters and/or posture when desired, without fear
of creating an immediately painful effect.
[0039]      Another observation from the clinical studies described above is that
the amplitude "window" between the onset of effective therapy and the onset of
                                         -15-

pain or discomfort is relatively broad, and in particular, broader than it is for
standard SCS treatment. For example, during standard SCS treatment, the patient
typically experiences a pain reduction at a particular amplitude, and begins
experiencing pain from the therapeutic signal (which may have a sudden onset, as
described above) at from about 1.2 to about 1.6 times that amplitude.             This
corresponds to an average dynamic range of about 1.4.            In addition, patients
receiving standard SCS stimulation typically wish to receive the stimulation at close
to the pain onset level because the therapy is often most effective at that level.
Accordingly, patient preferences may further reduce the effective dynamic range.
By contrast, therapy in accordance with the presently disclosed technology
resulted in patients obtaining pain relief at 1 mA or less, and not encountering pain
or muscle capture until the applied signal had an amplitude of 4 mA, and in some
cases up to about 5 mA, 6 mA, or 8 mA, corresponding to a much larger dynamic
range (e.g., larger than 1.6 or 60% in some embodiments, or larger than 100% in
other embodiments). Even at the forgoing amplitude levels, the pain experienced
by the patients was significantly less than that associated with standard SCS pain
onset. An expected advantage of this result is that the patient and practitioner can
have significantly wider latitude in selecting an appropriate therapy amplitude with
the presently disclosed methodology than with standard SCS methodologies. For
example, the practitioner can increase the signal amplitude in an effort to affect
more (e.g., deeper) fibers at the spinal cord, without triggering unwanted side
effects. The existence of a wider amplitude window may also contribute to the
relative insensitivity of the presently disclosed therapy to changes in patient
posture and/or activity. For example, if the relative position between the implanted
lead and the target neural population changes as the patient moves, the effective
strength of the signal when it reaches the target neural population may also
change. When the target neural population is insensitive to a wider range of signal
strengths, this effect can in turn allow greater patient range of motion without
triggering undesirable side effects.
[0040]       Figure 7 illustrates a graph 700 identifying amplitude as a function of
frequency for conventional SCS and for therapy in accordance with embodiments
of the presently disclosed technology.       Threshold amplitude level 701 indicates
generally the minimum amplitude necessary to achieve a therapeutic effect, e.g.,
                                           -16-

pain reduction.     A first region 702 corresponds to amplitudes, as a function of
frequency, for which the patient senses paresthesia induced by the therapy, pain
induced by the therapy, and/or uncomfortable or undesired muscle stimulation
induced by the therapy. As shown in Figure 7, at conventional SCS frequencies,
the first region 702 extends below the threshold amplitude level 701. Accordingly,
a second region 703 indicates that the patient undergoing conventional SCS
therapy typically detects paresthesia, other sensory effects, and/or undesirable
motor effects below the amplitude necessary to achieve a therapeutic effect. One
or more of these side effects are also present at amplitudes above the threshold
amplitude level 701 required to achieve the therapeutic effect.         By contrast, at
frequencies associated with the presently disclosed technology, a "window" 704
exists between the threshold amplitude level 701 and the first region 702.
Accordingly, the patient can receive therapeutic benefits at amplitudes above the
threshold amplitude level 701, and below the amplitude at which the patient may
experience undesirable side effects (e.g., paresthesia, sensory effects and/or
motor effects).
[0041]        Although the presently disclosed therapies may allow the practitioner to
provide modulation over a broader range of amplitudes, in at least some cases, the
practitioner may not need to use the entire range.         For example, as described
above, the instances in which the patient may need to adjust the therapy may be
significantly reduced when compared with standard SCS therapy because the
presently disclosed therapy is relatively insensitive to patient position, posture and
activity level. In addition to or in lieu of the foregoing effect, the amplitude of the
signals applied in accordance with the presently disclosed techniques may be
lower than the amplitude associated with standard SCS because the presently
disclosed techniques may target neurons that are closer to the surface of the
spinal cord.    For example, it is believed that the nerve fibers associated with low
back pain enter the spinal cord between T9 and T12 (inclusive), and are thus close
to the spinal cord surface at these vertebral locations. Accordingly, the strength of
the therapeutic signal (e.g., the current amplitude) can be modest because the
signal need not penetrate through a significant depth of spinal cord tissue to have
the intended effect.     Such low amplitude signals can have a reduced (or zero)
tendency for triggering side effects, such as unwanted sensory and/or motor
                                           -17-

responses. Such low amplitude signals can also reduce the power required by the
implanted pulse generator, and can therefore extend the battery life and the
associated time between recharging and/or replacing the battery.
[0042]        Yet another expected benefit of providing therapy in accordance with
the presently disclosed parameters is that the practitioner need not implant the
lead with the same level of precision as is typically required for standard SCS lead
placement.      For example, while at least some of the foregoing results were
obtained for patients having two leads (one positioned on either side of the spinal
cord midline), it is expected that patients will receive the same or generally similar
pain relief with only a single lead placed at the midline.            Accordingly, the
practitioner may need to implant only one lead, rather than two. It is still further
expected that the patient may receive pain relief on one side of the body when the
lead is positioned offset from the spinal cord midline in the opposite direction.
Thus, even if the patient has bilateral pain, e.g., with pain worse on one side than
the other, the patient's pain can be addressed with a single implanted lead. Still
further, it is expected that the lead position can vary laterally from the anatomical
and/or physiological spinal cord midline to a position 3-5 mm. away from the spinal
cord midline (e.g., out to the dorsal root entry zone or DREZ).          The foregoing
identifiers of the midline may differ, but the expectation is that the foregoing range
is effective for both anatomical and physiological identifications of the midline, e.g.,
as a result of the robust nature of the present therapy. Yet further, it is expected
that the lead (or more particularly, the active contact or contacts on the lead) can
be positioned at any of a variety of axial locations in a range of about T8-T12 in
one embodiment, and a range of one to two vertebral bodies within T8-T12 in
another embodiment, while still providing effective treatment for low back pain.
Accordingly, the practitioner's selected implant site need not be identified or
located as precisely as it is for standard SCS procedures (axially and/or laterally),
while still producing significant patient benefits. In particular, the practitioner can
locate the active contacts within the foregoing ranges without adjusting the contact
positions in an effort to increase treatment efficacy and/or patient comfort.         In
addition, in particular embodiments, contacts at the foregoing locations can be the
only active contacts delivering therapy to the patient.       The foregoing features,
alone or in combination, can reduce the amount of time required to implant the
                                           -18-

lead, and can give the practitioner greater flexibility when implanting the lead. For
example, if the patient has scar tissue or another impediment at a preferred
implant site, the practitioner can locate the lead elsewhere and still obtain
beneficial results.
[0043]        Still another expected benefit, which can result from the foregoing
observed insensitivities to lead placement and signal amplitude, is that the need
for conducting a mapping procedure at the time the lead is implanted may be
significantly reduced or eliminated. This is an advantage for both the patient and
the practitioner because it reduces the amount of time and effort required to
establish an effective therapy regimen.        In particular, standard SCS therapy
typically requires that the practitioner adjust the position of the lead and the
amplitude of the signals delivered by the lead, while the patient is in the operating
room reporting whether or not pain reduction is achieved. Because the presently
disclosed techniques are relatively insensitive to lead position and amplitude, the
mapping process can be eliminated entirely. Instead, the practitioner can place
the lead at a selected vertebral location (e.g., about T8-T12) and apply the signal
at a pre-selected amplitude (e.g., 1 to 2 mA), with a significantly reduced or
eliminated trial-and-error optimization process (for a contact selection and/or
amplitude selection), and then release the patient. In addition to or in lieu of the
foregoing effect, the practitioner can, in at least some embodiments, provide
effective therapy to the patient with a simple bipole arrangement of electrodes, as
opposed to a tripole or other more complex arrangement that is used in existing
systems to steer or otherwise direct therapeutic signals. In light of the foregoing
effect(s), it is expected that the time required to complete a patient lead implant
procedure and select signal delivery parameters can be reduced by a factor of two
or more, in particular embodiments.      As a result, the practitioner can treat more
patients per day, and the patients can more quickly engage in activities without
pain.
[0044]        The foregoing effect(s) can extend not only to the mapping procedure
conducted at the practitioner's facility, but also to the subsequent trial period.  In
particular, patients receiving standard SCS treatment typically spend a week after
receiving a lead implant during which they adjust the amplitude applied to the lead
                                          -19-

in an attempt to establish suitable amplitudes for any of a variety of patient
positions and patient activities. Because embodiments of the presently disclosed
therapy are relatively insensitive to patient position and activity level, the need for
this trial and error period can be reduced or eliminated.
[0045]        Still another expected benefit associated with embodiments of the
presently disclosed treatment is that the treatment may be less susceptible to
patient habituation.     In particular, it is expected that in at least some cases, the
high frequency signal applied to the patient can produce an asynchronous neural
response, as is disclosed in co-pending U.S. Application No. 12/362,244,
incorporated herein by reference. The asynchronous response may be less likely
to produce habituation than a synchronous response, which can result from lower
frequency modulation.
[0046]        Yet another feature of embodiments of the foregoing therapy is that the
therapy can be applied without distinguishing between anodic contacts and
cathodic contacts.        As described in greater detail in U.S. Application No.
12/765,790, incorporated herein by reference, this feature can simplify the process
of establishing a therapy regimen for the patient.          In addition, due to the high
frequency of the waveform, the adjacent tissue may perceive the waveform as a
pseudo steady state signal. As a result of either or both of the foregoing effects,
tissue adjacent both electrodes may be beneficially affected.             This is unlike
standard SCS waveforms for which one electrode is consistently cathodic and
another is consistently anodic.
[0047]        In any of the foregoing embodiments, aspects of the therapy provided
to the patient may be varied, while still obtaining beneficial results. For example,
the location of the lead body (and in particular, the lead body electrodes or
contacts) can be varied over the significant lateral and/or axial ranges described
above.      Other characteristics of the applied signal can also be varied.          For
example, the signal can be delivered at a frequency of from about 1.5 kHz to about
100 kHz, and in particular embodiments, from about 1.5 kHz to about 50 kHz. In
more particular embodiments, the signal can be provided at frequencies of from
about 3 kHz to about 20 kHz, or from about 3 kHz to about 15 kHz, or from about 5
kHz to about 15 kHz, or from about 3 kHz to about 10 kHz. The amplitude of the
                                              -20-

signal can range from about 0.1 mA to about 20 mA in a particular embodiment,
and in further particular embodiments, can range from about 0.5 mA to about 10
mA, or about 0.5 mA to about 4 mA, or about 0.5 mA to about 2.5 mA.                  The
amplitude of the applied signal can be ramped up and/or down.               In particular
embodiments, the amplitude can be increased or set at an initial level to establish
a therapeutic effect, and then reduced to a lower level to save power without
forsaking efficacy, as is disclosed in pending U.S. Application No. 12/264,536, filed
November 4, 2008, and           incorporated      herein by reference.     In particular
embodiments, the signal amplitude refers to the electrical current level, e.g., for
current-controlled systems. In other embodiments, the signal amplitude can refer
to the electrical voltage level, e.g., for voltage-controlled systems. The pulse width
(e.g., for just the cathodic phase of the pulses) can vary from about 10
microseconds to about 333 microseconds. In further particular embodiments, the
pulse width can range from about 25 microseconds to about 166 microseconds, or
from about 33 microseconds to about 100 microseconds, or from about 50
microseconds to about 166 microseconds.             The specific values selected for the
foregoing parameters may vary from patient to patient and/or from indication to
indication and/or on the basis of the selected vertebral location. In addition, the
methodology may make use of other parameters, in addition to or in lieu of those
described above, to monitor and/or control patient therapy. For example, in cases
for which the pulse generator includes a constant voltage arrangement rather than
a constant current arrangement, the current values described above may be
replaced with corresponding voltage values.
[0048]        In at least some embodiments, it is expected that the foregoing
amplitudes will be suprathreshold.         It is also expected that, in at least some
embodiments, the neural response to the foregoing signals will be asynchronous,
as described above. Accordingly, the frequency of the signal can be selected to
be higher (e.g., between two and ten times higher) than the refractory period of the
target neurons at the patient's spinal cord, which in at least some embodiments is
expected to produce an asynchronous response.
[0049]       Patients can receive multiple signals in accordance with still further
embodiments of the disclosure. For example, patients can receive two or more
                                             -21-

signals, each with different signal delivery parameters. In one particular example,
the signals are interleaved with each other. For instance, the patient can receive 5
kHz pulses interleaved with 10 kHz pulses. In other embodiments, patients can
receive sequential "packets" of pulses at different frequencies, with each packet
having a duration of less than one second, several seconds, several minutes, or
longer depending upon the particular patient and indication.
[0050]       From the foregoing, it will be appreciated that specific embodiments of
the technology have been described herein for purposes of illustration, but that
various modifications may be made without deviating from the present disclosure.
For example, therapies described in the context of particular vertebral locations to
treat low back pain may be applied to other vertebral levels to treat other types of
pain. In still further embodiments, the therapeutic effect can include indications in
addition to or in lieu of pain. Certain aspects of the disclosure described in the
context of particular embodiments may be combined or eliminated in other
embodiments.       For example, patients can receive treatment at multiple vertebral
levels and/or via leads or other signal delivery devices positioned at multiple
locations. The foregoing mechanisms of action are believed to account for the
patient responses observed during treatment in accordance with the presently
disclosed technology; however, other mechanisms or processes may operate in
addition to or in lieu of the foregoing mechanisms in at least some instances.
Further, while advantages associated with certain embodiments have been
described in the context of those embodiments, other embodiments may also
exhibit such advantages, and not all embodiments need necessarily exhibit such
advantages to fall within the scope of the present technology. Accordingly, the
present disclosure and associated technology can encompass other embodiments
not expressly shown or described herein.           The following examples provide
additional embodiments of the technology.
                                          -22-

CLAIMS
       1.      A method when used to program a spinal cord stimulation system to
treat pain in a patient, comprising:
       programming a pulse generator to:
               generate a non-paresthesia-producing        neural  modulation signal
                       having a signal frequency in a frequency range of from 1.5 kHz
                       to 100 kHz; and
               direct the neural modulation signal to a dorsal horn of the patient via
                       an implantable signal delivery device, thereby desensitizing
                       one or more wide dynamic range neurons in the dorsal horn.
       2.      The method of claim 1 wherein the pulse generator is an implantable
pulse generator.
       3.      The method of claim 1 wherein the neural modulation signal is, on a
repeated basis, (a) automatically deactivated for a period of at least one second
and (b) automatically reactivated at the conclusion of the period.
       4.      The method of claim 1 wherein the neural modulation signal is, on a
repeated basis, (a) automatically deactivated for a period of at least one minute
and (b) automatically reactivated at the conclusion of the period.
       5.      The method of claim 1 wherein the neural modulation signal is, on a
repeated basis, (a) automatically deactivated for a period of at least one hour and
(b) automatically reactivated at the conclusion of the period.
       6.      The method of claim 1 wherein the neural modulation signal is, on a
repeated basis, (a) automatically deactivated for a period of at least one day and
(b) automatically reactivated at the conclusion of the period.
       7.      The method of claim 1, further comprising programming the pulse
generator to direct the neural modulation signal to the dorsal horn without
                                           -23-

undergoing a paresthesia mapping process to identify which, of multiple contacts
carried by the signal delivery device, the neural modulation signal is to be directed
to in order to apply the neural modulation signal to the dorsal horn.
        8.     The method of claim 1 wherein the frequency range is from 1.5 kHz
to 50 kHz.
        9.     The method of claim 1 wherein the frequency range is from 3 kHz to
20 kHz.
        10.    The method of claim 1 wherein the frequency range is from 3 kHz to
15 kHz.
        11.    The method of claim 1 wherein the frequency range is from 5 kHz to
15 kHz.
        12.    The method of claim 1 wherein the frequency range is from 3 kHz to
10 kHz.
        13.    The method of claim 1 wherein the neural modulation signal has an
amplitude in an amplitude range of from 0.1 mA to 20mA.
        14.    The method of claim 1 wherein the neural modulation signal has an
amplitude in an amplitude range of from 0.5 mA to 10 mA.
        15.    The method of claim 1 wherein the neural modulation signal has a
pulse width in a pulse width range of from 10 microseconds to 333 microseconds.
        16.    The method of claim 1 wherein the neural modulation signal has a
pulse width in a pulse width range of from 25 microseconds to 166 microseconds.
        17.    The method of claim 1 wherein the neural modulation signal has a
pulse width in a pulse width range of from 33 microseconds to 100 microseconds.
                                         - 24 -

        18.   The method of claim 1 wherein the neural modulation signal has a
pulse width in a pulse width range of from 50 microseconds to 166 microseconds.
        19.   The method of claim 1 wherein the frequency range is from 5 kHz to
15 kHz, and wherein the signal has a pulse width in a pulse width range of from 10
microseconds to 333 microseconds, and wherein the signal has an amplitude in an
amplitude range of 0.5 mA to 10 mA.
       20.    A patient therapy system, comprising:
       a pulse generator programmed to:
               generate a non-paresthesia-producing        neural modulation signal
                      having a signal frequency in a frequency range of from 1.5 kHz
                      to 100 kHz; and
               direct the neural modulation signal to a dorsal horn of the patient via
                      an implantable signal delivery device, wherein the neural
                      modulation signal is configured to desensitise one or more
                      wide dynamic range neurons in the dorsal horn.
       21.    The system of claim 20, further comprising the implantable signal
delivery device, and wherein the implantable signal delivery device is coupled to
the pulse generator.
       22.    The system of claim 20 wherein the pulse generator is implantable.
       23.    The system of claim 20 wherein the pulse generator is programmed
to, on a repeated basis, (a) automatically deactivate the therapy signal for a period
of at least one second and (b) automatically reactivate the therapy signal at the
conclusion of the period.
       24.    The system of claim 20 wherein the pulse generator is programmed
to, on a repeated basis, (a) automatically deactivate the therapy signal for a period
                                          - 25 -

of at least one minute and (b) automatically reactivate the therapy signal at the
conclusion of the period.
       25.    The system of claim 20 wherein the frequency range is from 1.5 kHz
to 50 kHz.
       26.    The system of claim 20 wherein the frequency range is from 3 kHz to
20 kHz.
       27.    The system of claim 20 wherein the frequency range is from 3 kHz to
15 kHz.
       28.    The system of claim 20 wherein the frequency range is from 5 kHz to
15 kHz.
       29.    The system of claim 20 wherein the frequency range is from 3 kHz to
10 kHz.
       30.    The system of claim 20 wherein the neural modulation signal has an
amplitude in an amplitude range of from 0.1 mA to 20mA.
       31.    The system of claim 20 wherein the neural modulation signal has an
amplitude in an amplitude range of from 0.5 mA to 10 mA.
       32.    The system of claim 20 wherein the neural modulation signal has a
pulse width in a pulse width range of from 10 microseconds to 333 microseconds.
       33.    The system of claim 20 wherein the neural modulation signal has a
pulse width in a pulse width range of from 25 microseconds to 166 microseconds.
       34.    The system of claim 20 wherein the neural modulation signal has a
pulse width in a pulse width range of from 33 microseconds to 100 microseconds.
                                         - 26 -

       35.    The system of claim 20 wherein the neural modulation signal has a
pulse width in a pulse width range of from 50 microseconds to 166 microseconds.
       36.    The system of claim 20 wherein the frequency range is from 5 kHz to
15 kHz, and wherein the signal has a pulse width in a pulse width range of from 10
microseconds to 333 microseconds, and wherein the signal has an amplitude in an
amplitude range of 0.5 mA to 10 mA.
                                         - 27 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
