        LACTOBACILLUS FERMENTUM BACTERIA WITH ANTIFUNGAL ACTIVITY
                                           ABSTRACT
       The present invention relates to a bacterium of the species Lactobacillus fermentum
having the ability to inhibit the growth of the fungus Penicillium solitum deposited under the
accession No.: DSM32093 or the growth of the fungus Penicillium brevicompactum deposited
under the accession No.: DSM32094 by at least 50%. The inhibitory activity can be determined
in an assay comprising:
(1)     preparing a fermented milk product by:
        (a) inoculating a milk with the Lactobacillus fermentum in a concentration of at least
             10' CFU/g and with a starter culture,
        (b) fermenting until a pH of 4.6 is reached, and
        (c)  solidifying the fermented milk by the addition of agar;
(2)     generating at least one spot of the P. solitum or the P. brevicompactum on the agar
        solidified fermented milk with a concentration of 500 spores/spot and incubating the
        same for 7 days at 25 OC;
(3)     determining the percent inhibition by determining the largest diameter of the colony
        formed by growth of the P. solitum or P. brevicompactum and expressing the diameter
        as percent of the largest diameter formed under the same conditions but in the absence
        of the Lactobacillus fermentum strain.
The invention further relates to compositions comprising the bacterium, methods for producing
fermented milk products using the bacterium and the products thus obtained.

LACTOBACILLUS FERMENTUM BACTERIA WITH ANTIFUNGAL ACTIVITY
INCORPORATION BY CROSS REFERENCE
The present application is a divisional of Australian patent application no. <removed-apn> which in
turn claims priority from EP application no. 15183198.9. Each of these two applications are
incorporated herein by cross reference in their entirety.
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
The present invention relates to Lactobacillus fermentum bacteria with antifungal activity, compositions
comprising the bacteria, in particular adjunct cultures comprising the bacteria, methods of producing a
fermented milk product using the bacteria or the cultures and the fermented milk products thus
obtained, including food, feed and pharmaceutical products.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
Lactic acid bacteria (LAB) have been used in decades for increasing the shelf life of food products. During
fermentation LAB produce lactic acid as well as other organic acids which cause a reduction of pH of the
fermented product. Products having an acidic pH do not support further growth of most microorganisms,
including pathogenic and spoilage bacteria. However, growth of yeasts and moulds is not affected by
low pH and often cause spoilage of fermented dairy products.
In addition to the production of organic acids some LAB also produce metabolites with antimicrobial and
in particular antifungal activity.
For example, European Patent Application no. EP0221499 describes the antifungal properties of
Lactobacillus rhamnosus NRRL-B-15972 which is capable of inhibiting the growth of different molds
when cultured on agar medium supplemented with cucumber juice. Similarly, European Patent
Application no. EP0576780 relates to Lactobacillus rhamnosus LC-705 a strain that apparently inhibits
the growth of Penicillium, Cladosporium, Fusarium and Candida on a lactoserum-based medium,
supplemented with casein hydrolysate and with yeast extract. European Patent Application no.
EP1442113 describes mixtures of Propionibacterium jensenii and Lactobacillus sp., such as Lactobacillus
rhamnosus, with antimicrobial effects and their use for bioprotection. European Patent Application no.
EP13717237 describes Lactobacillus paracasei strains with antifungal effects and European Patent
Application no. EP13714671 describes Lactobacillus rhamnosus strains with antifungal effects.
An overview of LAB with antifungal effects and their use for the protection of bread and fruits is provided
by Gerez et al., 2013.
Cultures with antifungal effects are further commercially available and include FreshQ@ cultures of Chr.
Hansen as well as cultures of Dupont, SACCO and Bioprox. Developing cultures with antifungal effects
represents a big challenge, as it requires the identification of cultures that provide significant antifungal
effect in real food applications. Another factor that

                                                      2
    needs careful evaluation in the selection of bioprotective culture candidates, is the effect on
    sensory properties of the food product. A problem that has been identified in the commercial
    products is the extent of post acidification, i.e. continuation of acidification by the culture after
    the product has reached the desired pH. This represents a problem in particular at elevated
  5 storage temperatures, during holding of the fermented product in fermentation tanks before
    product cooling or during maturation steps.
    Commercial bioprotective cultures were further considered to produce excessive diacetyl
    flavor component causing a 'creamy' flavor which can be perceived as an undesired flavor
10  impact (Aunsbjerg et al., 2015).
    Consequently, there is still a need for new and advantageous food grade bacteria with
    antifungal effects and minimal flavor impact.
15  SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
    The present invention provides bacteria of the species Lactobacillus fermentum having the
    ability to inhibit the growth of the fungus Penicillium solitum deposited under the accession
    No.: DSM32093 or the growth of the fungus Penicillium brevicompactum deposited under the
    accession No.: DSM32094 by at least 50%.
20
    By a dedicated effort a new group of Lactobacillus fermentum strains was identified that
    provide significant antifungal effects and additional advantages when used as a bioprotective
    strain in methods for producing fermented products. A total of 10 different Lactobacillus
    fermentum strains were identified that inhibit the growth of P. solitum or P. brevicompactum
25  by at least 50%.
    The Lactobacillus fermentum strains of the present invention may further be characterized in
    having the ability to reduce the concentration of acetaldehyde produced by a starter culture
    during fermentation in a fermented milk product by at least 50%.
30
    In a related embodiment the      Lactobacillus fermentum strains of the present invention can
    further be characterized in that the bacterium secretes only low amounts of diacetyl, for
    example in a range of 0 to 5 ppm.
35  Lactobacillus fermentum strains of the present invention may alternatively or additionally be
    characterized in that it increases the pH of a fermented            milk product comprising       the
    Lactobacillus fermentum during storage after fermentation in comparison to a milk product
    fermented with the same starter culture not containing the Lactobacillus fermentum.

                                                     3
   The present invention therefore provides the bacteria as described above, compositions
   comprising the same, methods using the bacteria for producing fermented milk products, as
   well as the products thus obtained.
 5 DETAI LED DESCRIPTION OF THE I NVENTION
   The present invention provides a bacterium of the species Lactobacillus fermentum having the
   ability to inhibit the growth of the fungus Penicillium solitum deposited under the accession
   No.: DSM32093 or the growth of the fungus Penicillium brevicompactum deposited under the
   accession No.: DSM32094 by at least 50%. In a preferred the present invention relates to a
10 bacterium of the species Lactobacillus fermentum having the ability to inhibit the growth of
   the fungus Penicillium solitum deposited under the accession No.: DSM32093 or the growth of
   the fungus Penicillium brevicompactum deposited under the accession No.: DSM32094 by at
   least 50% when grown in milk or a milk based substrate, such as e.g. a fermented dairy
   product. The ability to inhibit the growth of a fungus can be determined by numerous different
15 assays known in the art. In the context of the present invention the ability to inhibit the
   growth of the fungus Penicillium solitum deposited under the accession No.: DSM32093 or the
   growth of the fungus Penicillium brevicompactum deposited under the accession No.:
   DSM32094 by at least 50% is preferably determined using an assay comprising:
20 (1)      preparing a fermented milk product by:
            (a) inoculating a milk with the Lactobacillus fermentum in a concentration of at least
                 107 CFU/g and with a starter culture,
            (b) fermenting until a pH of 4.6 is reached, and
            (c)  solidifying the fermented milk by the addition of agar;
25 (2)      generating at least one spot of the P. solitum or the P. brevicompactum on the agar
            solidified fermented milk with a concentration of 500 spores/spot and incubating the
            same for 7 days at 25 OC;
   (3)      determining the percent inhibition by determining the largest diameter of the colony
            formed by growth of the P. solitum or P. brevicompactum and expressing the diameter
30          as percent of the largest diameter formed under the same conditions but in the
            absence of the Lactobacillus fermentum strain.
   The Lactobacillus fermentum strains of the present invention have particular advantages as
   they increase the storage stability of food products made with these bacteria. In one
35 alternative the Lactobacillus fermentum strains of the present invention inhibit the growth of
   the fungus Penicillium solitum deposited under the accession No.: DSM32093 and the growth
   of the fungus Penicillium brevicompactum deposited under the accession No.: DSM32094 by
   at least 50%. In a related embodiment the Lactobacillus fermentum strains of the present

                                                     4
   invention inhibit the growth of the fungus Penicillium solitum deposited under the accession
   No.: DSM32093 and/or the growth of the fungus Penicillium brevicompactum deposited under
   the accession No.: DSM32094 by at 60%, at least 70% or at least 75%.
 5 It should be understood that the concentration of at least 107 CFU/g of the Lactobacillus
   fermentum strains of the present invention identified in the above assay represents a
   concentration     providing   excellent  antifungal    effects.  While   the   invention   therefore
   encompasses the Lactobacillus fermentum strains of the present invention in a concentration
   of at least 107 CFU/g, such as in a concentration of 107 CFU/g to 101" CFU/g, 107 CFU/g to
10 1010 CFU/g and 107 CFU/g to 109 CFU/g, the invention is not limited to these concentrations,
   as good antifungal effects were also obtained with a lower concentration.
   According to one aspect the bacteria of the invention are further characterized in secreting
   low amounts or essentially no volatile compounds, which affect the sensory properties of the
15 food   product.   Common      starter cultures,  such    as  commercially    available  mixtures  of
   Streptococcus thermophilus and Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp. bulgaricus are known to
   produce volatile compounds which contribute significantly to the sensory properties of the
   fermented    products. Acetaldehyde, diacetyl and acetoin for example are known volatile
   compounds, which affect the sensory properties of the food product. In a related embodiment
20 the  bacteria of the      present invention   are characterized     in reducing the    presence   of
   acetaldehyde as produced by other bacteria in the starter culture. For example, certain
   Lactobacillus fermentum strains of the present invention may further be characterized in
   having the ability to reduce the concentration of acetaldehyde produced by a starter culture
   during fermentation in a fermented milk product by at least 50%. The reduction is thus
25 determined     in comparison     to a fermented     product   produced without the     Lactobacillus
   fermentum strains of the present invention.          Different assays are known in the art for
   determining the concentration of acetaldehyde in a fermented product and can be used for
   that purpose in accordance with the present invention. The ability to reduce the concentration
   of acetaldehyde produced by a starter culture during fermentation in a fermented milk
30 product by at least 50% is preferably determined in an assay comprising:
   (1)     preparing a fermented milk product by:
           (a)  inoculating a milk with the Lactobacillus fermentum in a concentration of at least
                107 CFU/g and with a starter culture,
35         (b) fermenting until a pH of 4.6 is reached, and;
   (2)     storing the fermented milk product at 7±1 0 C for 14 days;
   (3)     adding 200 pl of 4N H2SO4 to 1 g of the fermented milk product and determining the
           concentration of acetaldehyde by static head space gas chromatography.

                                                     5
    Acetaldehyde is a taste component produced by lactic acid bacteria during fermentation.
    While the component is desirable in certain applications, it would be advantageous to reduce
    or avoid the presence of acetaldehyde in other applications. Lactobacillus fermentum bacteria
  5 reducing the concentration of acetaldehyde in a fermented milk product therefore provide
    advantages in specific applications, for example when preparing mild or sweetened yoghurt.
    The Lactobacillus fermentum strains of the present invention may for example reduce the
    concentration of acetaldehyde produced         by a starter culture during fermentation in a
    fermented milk product by at least 75%, at least 95% or at least 98%.
10
    Alternatively or additionally, the Lactobacillus fermentum strains of the present invention can
    be characterized in that the bacterium secretes diacetyl in a range of 0 to 5 ppm. The
    secretion of diacetyl can be determined using different assays known in the art, but is
    preferably determined in an assay comprising:
15
    (1)     preparing a fermented milk product by:
            (a)  inoculating a milk with the Lactobacillus fermentum in a concentration of at least
                 107 CFU/g and with a starter culture,
            (b) fermenting until a pH of 4.6 is reached, and;
20  (2)     storing the fermented milk product at 7±10 C for 14 days;
    (3)     adding 200 pl of 4N H2SO4 to 1 g of the fermented milk product and determining the
            concentration of diacetyl by static head space gas chromatography.
    Lactobacillus fermentum bacteria secreting low concentrations of diacetyl have advantages in
25  methods of producing food products with these bacteria, as other strains exerting antifungal
    activity that produce high concentrations of these volatile compounds affect the taste of the
    final product and can therefore not be used for all applications. Lactobacillus fermentum
    strains of the present invention can be characterized in that the bacterium secretes diacetyl in
    a range of 0 to 3 ppm or 0 to 2ppm.
30
    The Lactobacillus fermentum strains of the present invention            may be characterized by
    additional advantageous effects. For example, the strains can be characterized in that it
    increases the    pH (i.e.  counteracts the     postacidification)   of a fermented   milk product
    comprising the Lactobacillus fermentum during storage after fermentation in comparison to a
35  milk product fermented      with the same starter culture         not containing the Lactobacillus
    fermentum. The increase in pH is at least by a value of 0.1 and is preferably determined after
    storing the fermented product over 21 days at 25 OC. As indicated above, prior art antifungal
    bacteria were observed to contribute to post-acidification. The inventors surprisingly found

                                                      6
   that the Lactobacillus fermentum strains of the present invention do not only fail to contribute
   to post-acidification, but actually antagonize post-acidification by increasing the pH value. As
   is shown in the Examples, below, the effect is particularly notable in fermentation processes
   using   starter cultures   exhibiting   significant post-acidification,  including a number of
 5 commercially available starter cultures and in particular when used together with commercial
   antifungal bacteria.
   The   Lactobacillus   fermentum    strains of the      present  invention can for    example    be
   characterized in that they increase the pH of a fermented milk product comprising the
10 Lactobacillus fermentum during storage after fermentation in comparison to a milk product
   fermented with the same starter culture not containing the Lactobacillus fermentum, wherein
   the increase in pH is at least by a value of 0.1 and is determined after storing the fermented
   product over 21 days at 25 OC, and wherein the starter culture comprises LAB which are able
   to decrease the pH of a milk product during fermentation to a value of pH 4.6 in 10 hours or
15 less. For example, the assay may be based on mixtures of Streptococcus thermophilus and
   Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp. bulgaricus. Respective mixtures are frequently used for the
   production of yoghurt and known to cause post-acidification.
   In a related embodiment a fermented milk product comprising the Lactobacillus fermentum
20 maintains a pH above 4.0 when stored for at least 14 days at 25 OC, wherein the fermented
   milk product is obtained by a method comprising inoculating a milk with the Lactobacillus
   fermentum in a concentration of at least       107   CFU/g and with a starter culture, fermenting
   until a pH of 4.6 is reached, shaking the fermented product and cooling. These Lactobacillus
   fermentum strains of the present invention therefore reduce the post-acidification effect
25 observed in prior art bioprotective cultures and even in conventional starter cultures. It
   should be understood that the feature specifying that the Lactobacillus fermentum strains of
   the present invention may maintain the pH above 4.0 when stored for at least 14 days at 25
   OC merely characterizes the assay generally used to determine the effect. It is not necessary
   or required that the Lactobacillus fermentum strains of the present invention, compositions
30 comprising the same, including food or feed products are in fact stored under these
   conditions. Again, in one aspect the assay can be carried out using a starter culture
   comprising LAB which are able to decrease the pH of a milk product during fermentation to a
   value of pH 4.6 in 10 hours or less. For example, the assay may be based on mixtures of
   Streptococcus thermophilus and Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp. bulgaricus.
35 Bacteria of the present invention may advantageously be derived from one of the following
   deposited strains:

                                             7
   (a) the Lactobacillus fermentum strain CHCC12798 as deposited at German Collection of
       Microorganisms and Cell Cultures (Deutsche Sammlung von Mikroorganismen und
       Zellkulturen GmbH;    DSMZ),   Inhoffenstr. 7B, D-38124  Braunschweig under the
       accession No.: 32084;
 5 (b) the Lactobacillus fermentum strain CHCC12797 as deposited at German Collection of
       Microorganisms and Cell Cultures (Deutsche Sammlung von Mikroorganismen und
       Zellkulturen GmbH;    DSMZ),   Inhoffenstr. 7B, D-38124  Braunschweig under the
       accession No.: 32085;
   (c) the Lactobacillus fermentum strain CHCC14591 as deposited at German Collection of
10     Microorganisms and Cell Cultures (Deutsche Sammlung von Mikroorganismen und
       Zellkulturen GmbH;    DSMZ),   Inhoffenstr. 7B, D-38124  Braunschweig under the
       accession No.: 32086;
   (d) the Lactobacillus fermentum strain CHCC14588 as deposited at German Collection of
       Microorganisms and Cell Cultures (Deutsche Sammlung von Mikroorganismen und
15     Zellkulturen GmbH;    DSMZ),   Inhoffenstr. 7B, D-38124  Braunschweig under the
       accession No.: 32087;
   (e) the Lactobacillus fermentum strain CHCC15844 as deposited at German Collection of
       Microorganisms and Cell Cultures (Deutsche Sammlung von Mikroorganismen und
       Zellkulturen GmbH;    DSMZ),   Inhoffenstr. 7B, D-38124  Braunschweig under the
20     accession No.: 32088;
   (f) the Lactobacillus fermentum strain CHCC15865 as deposited at German Collection of
       Microorganisms and Cell Cultures (Deutsche Sammlung von Mikroorganismen und
       Zellkulturen GmbH;    DSMZ),   Inhoffenstr. 7B, D-38124  Braunschweig under the
       accession No.: 32089;
25 (g) the Lactobacillus fermentum strain CHCC15847 as deposited at German Collection of
       Microorganisms and Cell Cultures (Deutsche Sammlung von Mikroorganismen und
       Zellkulturen GmbH;    DSMZ),   Inhoffenstr. 7B, D-38124  Braunschweig under the
       accession No.: 32090;
   (h) the Lactobacillus fermentum strain CHCC15848 as deposited at German Collection of
30     Microorganisms and Cell Cultures (Deutsche Sammlung von Mikroorganismen und
       Zellkulturen GmbH;    DSMZ),   Inhoffenstr. 7B, D-38124  Braunschweig under the
       accession No.: 32091;
   (i) the Lactobacillus fermentum strain CHCC15926 as deposited at German Collection of
       Microorganisms and Cell Cultures (Deutsche Sammlung von Mikroorganismen und
35     Zellkulturen GmbH;    DSMZ),   Inhoffenstr. 7B, D-38124  Braunschweig under the
       accession No.: 32096;
   (j) the Lactobacillus fermentum strain CHCC2008 as deposited at German Collection of
       Microorganisms and Cell Cultures (Deutsche Sammlung von Mikroorganismen und

                                                      8
           Zellkulturen GmbH;        DSMZ),  Inhoffenstr. 7B, D-38124 Braunschweig under the
           accession No.: 22584;
   (k)     a mutant strain obtainable from one the deposited bacteria according to (a) to (j),
           wherein the mutant has the ability to inhibit the growth of the fungus Penicillium
 5         solitum deposited at DSMZ under the accession No.: 32093 or the growth of the
           fungus Penicillium brevicompactum deposited at DSMZ under the accession No.:
           32094 by at least 50% in an assay comprising:
           (1)     preparing a fermented milk product by:
10                 (a) inoculating milk with the Lactobacillus fermentum in a concentration of at
                        least  10 7 CFU/g and with a starter culture,
                   (b) fermenting until a pH of 4.6 is reached, and
                   (c) solidifying the fermented milk by the addition of agar;
           (2)     generating at least one spot of the P. solitum or the P. brevicompactum on the
15                 agar solidified fermented milk with a concentration of 500 spores/spot and
                   incubating the same for 7 days at 25 OC;
           (3)     determining the percent inhibition by determining the largest diameter of the
                   colony formed by growth of the P. solitum or P. brevicompactum and
                   expressing the diameter as percent of the largest diameter formed under the
20                 same conditions but in the absence of the Lactobacillus fermentum strain.
   In the context of the present application, the term "lactic acid bacteria" or "LAB" is used to
   refer to food-grade bacteria producing lactic acid as the major metabolic end-product of
   carbohydrate fermentation. These bacteria are related by their common metabolic and
25 physiological characteristics and are usually Gram positive, low-GC, acid tolerant, non
   sporulating, non-respiring, rod-shaped bacilli or cocci. During the fermentation stage, the
   consumption of lactose by these bacteria causes the formation of lactic acid, reducing the pH
   and leading to the formation of a protein coagulum. These bacteria are thus responsible for
   the acidification of milk and for the texture of the dairy product. As used herein, the term
30 "lactic acid bacteria" encompasses, but is not limited to, bacteria belonging to the genus of
   Lactobacillus spp.,    Bifidobacterium spp.,     Streptococcus spp.,   Lactococcus spp.,    such as
   Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp. bulgaricus, Streptococcus thermophilus, Lactobacillus lactis,
   Bifidobacterium animals,      Lactococcus lactis, Lactobacillus paracasei, Lactobacillus plantarum,
   Lactobacillus helveticus, Lactobacillus acidophilus, Bifidobacterium       breve and Leuconostoc
35 spp.
   Depending on the optimum temperature for propagation, LAB are characterized as mesophilic
   or thermophilic LAB. The term "mesophile"           refers to microorganisms that thrive best at

                                                    9
   moderate temperatures. The term "mesophilic fermentation" herein refers to fermentation at
   a temperature between about 220 C and about 350 C. The term "mesophilic fermented milk
   product" refers to fermented milk products prepared by mesophilic fermentation of a
   mesophilic starter culture and include such fermented milk products as buttermilk, sour milk,
 5 cultured milk, smetana, sour cream and fresh cheese, such as quark, tvarog and cream
   cheese. The industrially most useful mesophilic bacteria include Lactococcus spp. and
   Leuconostoc spp.
   The term "thermophile" refers to microorganisms that thrive best at high temperatures. The
10 term "thermophilic fermentation" refers to fermentation methods carried out at a temperature
   between about 350 C and about 45 0 C. The term "thermophilic fermented milk product" refers
   to fermented milk products prepared by thermophilic fermentation using a thermophilic
   starter culture and include such fermented milk products as set-yoghurt, stirred-yoghurt,
   strained yoghurt and drinking yoghurt. The industrially most useful thermophilic bacteria
15 include Streptococcus spp. and Lactobacillus spp.
   As will be outlined below, the present invention encompasses methods using mesophilic and
   thermophilic fermentation.
20 The terms "inhibit" in relation to fungi, yeasts and molds refers to a decrease in the growth or
   sporulation or a reduction in the number or in the concentration of fungi, yeasts and molds,
   for example in food products and/or on the surface of food products comprising the bacteria
   of the present invention in relation to food products which do not comprise such bacteria. The
   extent of inhibition provided by the Lactobacillus fermentum bacteria of the present invention
25 is preferably determined by growth on agar solidified fermented milk in the presence and
   absence of the Lactobacillus fermentum bacteria.
   In the present context, the term "mutant" should be understood as a strain derived from a
   strain of the invention by means of e.g. genetic engineering, radiation and/or chemical
30 treatment. It is preferred that the mutant is a functionally equivalent mutant, e.g. a mutant
   that has substantially the same, or improved, properties in particular in relation to the
   antifungal properties, as the deposited strain. Such a mutant is a part of the present
   invention. Especially, the term "mutant" refers to a strain obtained by subjecting a strain of
   the invention to any conventionally used mutagenization treatment including treatment with a
35 chemical mutagen such as ethane methane sulphonate (EMS)                or N-methyl-N'-nitro-N
   nitroguanidine (NTG), UV light or to a spontaneously occurring mutant. A mutant may have
   been subjected to several        mutagenization treatments (a single treatment should         be
   understood one mutagenization step followed by a screening/selection step), but it is

                                                   10
    presently preferred that no more than 20, or no more than 10, or no more than 5, treatments
    (or screening/selection steps) are carried out. In a presently preferred mutant, less than  5
                                                                                                  %,
    or less than 1% or even less than 0.1% of the nucleotides in the bacterial genome have been
    shifted with another nucleotide, or deleted, compared to the mother strain.
  5
    The use of the terms "a" and "an" and "the" and similar referents in the context of describing
    the invention (especially in the context of the following claims) are to be construed to cover
    both the singular and the plural, unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by
    context.
10
    The present invention further provides compositions comprising at least one bacterium of the
    species Lactobacillus fermentum with the ability to inhibit the growth of the fungus Penicillium
    solitum CHCC16948 deposited at DSMZ under the accession No.: 32093 or the growth of the
    fungus Penicillium brevicompactum CHCC16935 deposited at DSMZ under the accession No.:
15  32094 on an agar solidified fermented milk by at least 50% in the assay as described above.
    Respective compositions may comprise numerous further bacteria including LABs. A preferred
    composition of the present invention is therefore characterized in that the composition further
    comprises at least one further bacterium selected from one or more of the following genera
20  and species Lactobacillus spp., Bifidobacterium spp., Streptococcus spp., Lactococcus spp.,
    such as Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp. bulgaricus, Streptococcus thermophilus, Lactobacillus
    lactis, Bifidobacterium    animals,  Lactococcus lactis, Lactobacillus paracasei, Lactobacillus
    plantarum,    Lactobacillus helveticus, Lactobacillus acidophilus, Bifidobacterium    breve and
    Leuconostoc spp.
25
    In a particularly preferred embodiment, the compositions of the present invention comprise at
    least one bacterium of the species Lactobacillus fermentum          with antifungal activity as
    described above and one or          more second   bacterium with    antifungal activity. In one
    embodiment, several different strains of the Lactobacillus fermentum bacteria with antifungal
30  activity of the present invention are combined. Alternatively, these further bacteria can for
    example be selected from:
    (a)     Lactobacillus rhamnosus bacterium of strain CHCC15860 as deposited with the German
            Collection  of   Microorganisms   and  Cell  Cultures   (DSMZ)    under  accession    No.
35          DSM32092;
    (b)     Lactobacillus rhamnosus bacterium of strain CHCC5366 as deposited with the German
            Collection  of   Microorganisms   and  Cell  Cultures   (DSMZ)    under  accession    No.
            DSM23035;

                                                    11
    (c)     Lactobacillus rhamnosus bacterium of strain CHCC12697 as deposited with the German
            Collection   of  Microorganisms   and   Cell  Cultures  (DSMZ)    under     accession  No.
            DSM24616;
    (d)     Lactobacillus paracasei bacterium of strain CHCC12777 as deposited with the German
  5         Collection   of  Microorganisms   and   Cell  Cultures  (DSMZ)    under     accession  No.
            DSM24651; and
    (e)     Lactobacillus paracasei bacterium of strain CHCC14676 as deposited with the German
            Collection   of  Microorganisms   and   Cell  Cultures  (DSMZ)    under     accession  No.
            DSM25612.
10
    The present inventors found additive antifungal effects for these strains and a surprising
    synergistic antifungal effect caused by a combination of Lb. rhamnosus CHCC15860 and Lb.
    fermentum CHCC14591 in comparison to the inhibitory effect of each strain used alone.
15  The compositions of the present invention        may in addition comprise numerous further
    components,     including  one   or  more   cryoprotective   compounds    as   well   as flavoring
    compounds.
    LAB are most commonly added in the form of a starter culture to milk. The term "starter" or
20  "starter culture" as used in the present context refers to a culture of one or more food-grade
    micro-organisms, in particular lactic acid bacteria, which are responsible for the acidification
    of the milk base. Starter cultures may be fresh, but are most frequently frozen or freeze
    dried. These products are also known as "Direct Vat Set" (DVS) cultures and are produced for
    direct inoculation of a fermentation vessel or vat for the production of a dairy product, such as
25  a fermented milk product or a cheese. Respective starter cultures are commercially available
    from numerous sources and include F-DVS YoFlex Mild 2.0, F-DVS YF-L901, FD-DVS YF-812
    and F-DVS CH-1, four cultures commercially available from Chr. Hansen containing mixtures
    of Streptococcus thermophilus and Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp. bulgaricus.
30  In one aspect the present invention therefore provides compositions in the form of a solid
    frozen or freeze-dried starter culture comprising lactic acid bacteria in a concentration of at
    least 109 colony forming units per g of frozen material or in a concentration of at least 1010
    colony forming units per g of frozen material or in a concentration of at least 10"         colony
    forming units per g of frozen material which compositions include a bacterium of the species
35  Lactobacillus fermentum with antifungal activity as described above.
    The present invention further provides Lactobacillus fermentum bacteria and compositions
    comprising the same which are characterized by more than one of the above features and

                                                      12
   compositions comprising the same. For example, the present invention provides a bacterium
   of the species Lactobacillus fermentum having the ability to inhibit the growth of the fungus
   Penicillium solitum deposited under the accession No.: DSM32093 or the growth of the fungus
   Penicillium brevicompactum deposited under the accession No.: DSM32094 by at least 50%
 5 determined in an assay comprising:
            (1)    preparing a fermented milk product by:
                   (a)  inoculating a milk with the Lactobacillus fermentum in a concentration of
                        at least 107 CFU/g and with a starter culture,
10                 (b) fermenting until a pH of 4.6 is reached, and
                   (c)  solidifying the fermented milk by the addition of agar;
            (2)    generating at least one spot of the P. solitum or the P. brevicompactum on the
                   agar solidified fermented milk with a concentration of 500 spores/spot and
                   incubating the same for 7 days at 25 OC;
15          (3)    determining the percent inhibition by determining the largest diameter of the
                   colony formed      by growth     of the P. solitum or   P. brevicompactum   and
                   expressing the diameter as percent of the largest diameter formed under the
                   same conditions but in the absence of the Lactobacillus fermentum strain;
20 and further characterized in that the bacterium of the species Lactobacillus fermentum
   secretes diacetyl in a range of 0 to 5 ppm, wherein the concentration of diacetyl is determined
   in an assay comprising:
            (4)    preparing a fermented milk product by:
25                 (a)  inoculating a milk with the Lactobacillus fermentum in a concentration of
                        at least 107 CFU/g and with a starter culture,
                   (b) fermenting until a pH of 4.6 is reached, and;
            (5)    storing the fermented milk product at 7±1 0 C for 14 days;
            (6)    adding    200 pl of 4N    H 2 SO 4 to 1 g of the fermented     milk product and
30                 determining     the   concentration    of  diacetyl by  static head  space   gas
                   chromatography.
   These bacteria may further be characterized in the ability to reduce the concentration of
   acetaldehyde produced by a starter culture during fermentation in a fermented milk product
35 by at least 50%.
   Alternatively, or additionally, the bacteria of the species Lactobacillus fermentum can further
   be characterized in that it increases the pH         of a fermented milk product comprising the

                                                   13
   Lactobacillus fermentum during storage after fermentation in comparison to a milk product
   fermented with the same starter culture not containing the Lactobacillus fermentum.
   In a separate embodiment the invention further provides a Lactobacillus fermentum
 5 bacterium having the ability to inhibit the growth of the fungus Penicillium solitum deposited
   under the accession No.: DSM32093 or the growth of the fungus Penicillium brevicompactum
   deposited under the accession No.: DSM32094 by at least 50% determined in an assay
   comprising:
10         (1)     preparing a fermented milk product by:
                   (a) inoculating a milk with the Lactobacillus fermentum in a concentration of
                        at least 107 CFU/g and with a starter culture,
                   (b) fermenting until a pH of 4.6 is reached, and
                   (c) solidifying the fermented milk by the addition of agar;
15         (2)     generating at least one spot of the P. solitum or the P. brevicompactum on the
                   agar solidified fermented milk with a concentration of 500 spores/spot and
                   incubating the same for 7 days at 25 OC;
           (3)     determining the percent inhibition by determining the largest diameter of the
                   colony formed by growth of the P. solitum or P. brevicompactum and
20                 expressing the diameter as percent of the largest diameter formed under the
                   same conditions but in the absence of the Lactobacillus fermentum strain;
   and further characterized in that the bacterium of the species Lactobacillus fermentum
   increases the pH of a fermented milk product comprising the Lactobacillus fermentum during
25 storage after fermentation in comparison to a milk product fermented with the same starter
   culture not containing the Lactobacillus fermentum, wherein the increase in pH is at least by a
   value of 0.1, and wherein the increase in pH is determined after storing the fermented
   product over 21 days at 25 OC. Again, in one embodiment these bacteria may further have
   the ability to reduce the concentration of acetaldehyde produced by a starter culture during
30 fermentation in a fermented milk product by at least 50%.
   In a further embodiment the present invention provides methods of producing a fermented
   milk product which comprise adding the Lactobacillus fermentum bacterium with antifungal
   activity as described above or the composition comprising the same to milk or to a milk
35 product and fermenting the mixture at a temperature between about 220 C and about 43 0 C
   until a pH of less than 4.6 is reached.

                                                  14
   In the context of the present application, the term "milk" is broadly used in its common
   meaning to refer to liquids produced by the mammary glands of animals or by plants. In
   accordance with the present invention the milk may have been processed and the term "milk"
   includes whole milk, skim milk, fat-free milk, low fat milk, full fat milk, lactose-reduced milk,
 5 or concentrated milk. Fat-free milk is non-fat or skim milk product. Low-fat milk is typically
   defined as milk that contains from about 1% to about 2% fat. Full fat milk often contains 2%
   fat or more. The term "milk" is intended to encompass milks from different mammals and
   plant sources. Mammal sources of milk include, but are not limited to cow, sheep, goat,
   buffalo, camel, llama, mare and deer. Plant sources of milk include, but are not limited to,
10 milk extracted from soy bean,     pea,  peanut, barley, rice, oat, quinoa, almond, cashew,
   coconut, hazelnut, hemp, sesame seed and sunflower seed. In the methods and products of
   the present invention, milk derived from cows is most preferably used as a starting material
   for the fermentation.
15 The term "milk" also includes fat-reduced and/or lactose-reduced milk products. Respective
   products can be prepared using methods well known in the art and are commercially available
   (for example from Select Milk Producers Inc., Texas, USA).         Lactose-reduced milk can be
   produced according to any method known in the art, including hydrolyzing the lactose by
   lactase enzyme to glucose and galactose, or by nanofiltration, electrodialysis, ion exchange
20 chromatography and centrifugation.
   The term "milk product" or "milk base" is broadly used in the present application to refer to a
   composition based on milk or milk components which can be used as a medium for growth
   and fermentation of LAB. The milk product or base comprises components derived from milk
25 and any other component that can be used for the purpose of growing or fermenting LAB.
   The fermentation step of the process for manufacturing fermented dairy products comprises
   the addition of LAB to milk. Fermentation processes used in production of dairy products are
   well known and a person of ordinary skill can select fermentation process conditions, including
30 temperature, oxygen, amount and characteristics of microorganism(s) and fermentation time.
   Prior to fermentation, the milk substrate may be homogenized and pasteurized according to
   methods known in the art. "Homogenizing" as used herein means intensive mixing to obtain a
   soluble suspension or emulsion. If homogenization is performed prior to fermentation, it may
35 be performed so as to break up the milk fat into smaller sizes so that it no longer separates
   from the milk. This may be accomplished by forcing the milk at high pressure through small
   orifices. "Pasteurizing" as used herein means treatment of the milk substrate to reduce or
   eliminate the presence of live organisms, such as microorganisms. Preferably, pasteurization

                                                       15
    is attained by maintaining a specified temperature for a specified period of time. The specified
    temperature is usually attained by heating. The temperature and duration may be selected in
    order to kill or inactivate certain bacteria, such as harmful bacteria. A rapid cooling step may
    follow.
  5
    In a particularly advantageous method of the present invention the Lactobacillus fermentum
    bacterium with antifungal effects as described above or the composition comprising the same
    is added to milk or to a milk product and the mixture is fermented in such a manner that
10  (a)      the concentration of the Lactobacillus fermentum bacteria with antifungal effects is at
                         6
             least 1x10    cfu/g or at least 1x10 7 cfu/g at the termination of fermentation in the
             fermented milk product; and/or
    (b)      such that the concentration of the Lactobacillus fermentum bacteria with antifungal
             effects is at least 1x10 5 cfu/cm 2 on the surface of the fermented milk product.
15
    This way of proceeding has the advantage that the antifungal effect of the Lactobacillus
    fermentum bacterium can be fully used.
    One way of achieving the concentration is using a method of producing a fermented milk
20  product, wherein the parameters for fermentation are maintained such that the concentration
    of the Lactobacillus fermentum bacteria described above increases during fermentation. Using
    conventional starter cultures and conditions for fermentation (as described in the Examples)
    will generally increase the concentration of the Lactobacillus fermentum bacteria described
    above during fermentation by at least 0.5 log. Alternatively, the parameters for fermentation
25  are maintained such that the concentration of the Lactobacillus fermentum bacteria described
    above does not significantly decrease, for example does not decrease by more than 30%, not
    more than 25%, or not more than 20% during fermentation and storage
    The present invention also provides the fermentate obtainable by fermenting a milk product
30  with the Lactobacillus fermentum bacteria of the present invention. The term fermentate is
    used to refer to a fermentation product. A respective fermentate can be a liquid obtained from
    the fermentation process using the Lactobacillus fermentum bacteria of the present invention.
    The liquid can contain bacteria, but does not need to contain the same. The liquid preferably
    contains the antifungal metabolites produced by the Lactobacillus fermentum bacteria of the
35  present invention. The fermentate can be used to produce food, feed or pharmaceutical
    products. For example, the fermentate may be sprayed on food or feed products to achieve
    an antifungal effect.

                                                     16
    The invention further provides methods of producing a food, feed or pharmaceutical product
    comprising a method of producing a fermented milk product as described above and the food,
    feed or pharmaceutical product obtainable by this method.
  5 Fermentation is carried out to produce food products, feed products or pharmaceuticals. The
    terms "fermented milk product", "food" or "feed" product refer to products obtainable by the
    fermentation methods of the present invention and include cheese, yoghurt, fruit yoghurt,
    yoghurt beverage, strained yoghurt (Greek yoghurt, Labneh), quark, fromage frais and cream
    cheese. The term food further encompasses other fermented food products, including
10  fermented meat, such as fermented sausages, and fermented fish products.
    The term "cheese" is understood to encompass any cheese, including hard, semi-hard and
    soft cheeses, such as cheeses of the following types: Cottage, Feta, Cheddar, Parmesan,
    Mozzarella, Emmentaler,     Danbo, Gouda, Edam, Feta-type, blue cheeses, brine cheeses,
15  Camembert and Brie. The person skilled in the art knows how to convert the coagulum into
    cheese, methods can be found in the literature, see e.g. Kosikowski, F. V., and V. V. Mistry,
    "Cheese and Fermented Milk Foods", 1997, 3rd Ed. F. V. Kosikowski, L. L. C. Westport, CT. As
    used herein, a cheese which has a NaCl concentration below 1.7% (w/w) is referred to as a
    "low-salt cheese".
20
    In the context of the present application, the term "yoghurt" refers to products comprising
    Streptococcus thermophilus and Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp. bulgaricus and optionally
    other microorganisms such as Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp. lactis, Bifidobacterium animals
    subsp. lactis, Lactococcus lactis, Lactobacillus acidophilus and Lactobacillus paracasei, or any
25  microorganism     derived  therefrom.   The    lactic acid  strains other than    Streptococcus
    thermophilus and Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp. bulgaricus, are included to give the finished
    product various properties, such as the property of promoting the equilibrium of the flora. As
    used herein, the term "yoghurt" encompasses set yoghurt, stirred yoghurt, drinking yoghurt,
    Petit Suisse, heat treated yoghurt, strained or Greek style yoghurt characterized by a high
30  protein level and yoghurt-like products.
    In particular, term "yoghurt" encompasses, but is not limited to, yoghurt as defined according
    to French and European regulations, e.g. coagulated dairy products obtained by lactic acid
    fermentation by means of specific thermophilic lactic acid bacteria only (i.e. Lactobacillus
35  delbrueckii   subsp.   bulgaricus   and  Streptococcus     thermophilus)  which    are  cultured
    simultaneously and are found to be live in the final product in an amount of at least 10 million
    CFU (colony-forming unit) / g. Yoghurts may optionally contain added dairy raw materials
    (e.g. cream) or other ingredients such as sugar or sweetening agents, one or more

                                                      17
   flavouring(s), fruit, cereals, or nutritional substances, especially vitamins, minerals and fibers,
   as well as stabilizers and thickeners. Optionally the yoghurt meets the specifications for
   fermented milks and yoghurts of the AFNOR NF 04-600 standard and/or the codex StanA-Ila
   1975 standard. In order to satisfy the AFNOR NF 04-600 standard, the product must not have
 5 been heated after fermentation and the dairy raw materials must represent a minimum of
   70% (m/m) of the finished product.
   In a further embodiment the present invention provides food, feed or pharmaceutical products
   comprising one or more bacteria of the species Lactobacillus fermentum              with antifungal
10 effects as described above and one or more of:
           (a)     least one further bacterium selected from one or more of the following genera
                   Lactococcus spp.,     Streptococcus spp., Lactobacillus spp., Leuconostoc spp.,
                   Pseudoleuconostoc        spp.,   Pediococcus  spp.,    Brevibacterium    spp.   and
15                 Enterococcus spp.;
           (b)     Lactobacillus rhamnosus bacterium of strain CHCC15860 as deposited with the
                   German     Collection   of   Microorganisms  and    Cell Cultures   (DSMZ)    under
                   accession No. DSM32092;
           (c)     Lactobacillus rhamnosus bacterium of strain CHCC5366 as deposited with the
20                 German     Collection   of   Microorganisms  and    Cell Cultures   (DSMZ)    under
                   accession No. DSM23035;
           (d)     Lactobacillus rhamnosus bacterium of strain CHCC12697 as deposited with the
                   German     Collection   of   Microorganisms  and    Cell Cultures   (DSMZ)    under
                   accession No. DSM24616;
25         (e)     Lactobacillus paracasei bacterium of strain CHCC12777 as deposited with the
                   German     Collection   of   Microorganisms  and    Cell Cultures   (DSMZ)    under
                   accession No. DSM24651; and
           (f)     Lactobacillus paracasei bacterium of strain CHCC14676 as deposited with the
                   German     Collection   of   Microorganisms  and    Cell Cultures   (DSMZ)    under
30                 accession No. DSM25612.
   DESCRI PTI ON OF THE FI GURES
   Figure 1: Growth of molds on plates prepared from milk fermented with a starter culture
35 alone (reference,    first column), together with FreshQ@4 (second column), together with
   Holdbac@ YM-C Plus (third column)           or together with Lb. fermentum CHCC14591 (fourth
   column). The plates had been incubated at 7±10 C for 19 days (top row) and 27 days (bottom

                                                 18
    row). The target contaminants were added in concentrations of 500 spores/spot: (A) P.
    carneum, (B) P. paneum and (C) P. roqueforti.
    Figure 2: Growth of molds on plates prepared from milk fermented with a starter culture
  5 alone (reference, first column), together with FreshQ@4 (second column), together with
    Holdbac@ YM-C Plus (third column) or together with Lb. fermentum CHCC14591 (fourth
    column). The plates had been incubated at 25±10 C for 6 days (top row) and 11 days (bottom
    row). The target contaminants were added in concentrations of 500 spores/spot: (A) P.
    carneum, (B) P. paneum and (C) P. roqueforti.
10
    Figure 3: Growth of molds on plates prepared from milk fermented with a starter culture
    alone (reference, first column), together with FreshQ@4 (second column), together with
    Holdbac@ YM-C Plus (third column) or together with Lb. fermentum CHCC14591 (fourth
    column). The plates had been incubated at 7±10 C for 19 days (top row) and 27 days (bottom
15  row). The target contaminants were added in concentrations of 500 spores/spot: (A) P.
    brevicompactum, (B) P. crustosum and (C) P. solitum.
    Figure 4: Growth of molds on plates prepared from milk fermented with a starter culture
    alone (reference, first column), together with FreshQ@4 (second column), together with
20  Holdbac@ YM-C Plus (third column) or together with Lb. fermentum CHCC14591 (fourth
    column). The plates had been incubated at 25±10 C for 6 days (top row) and 11 days (bottom
    row). The target contaminants were added in concentrations of 500 spores/spot: (A) P.
    brevicompactum (DSM32093), (B) P. crustosum and (C) P. solitum (DSM32093).
25  Figure 5: Growth of yeast on plates prepared from milk fermented with a starter culture
    alone (reference, first column), together with FreshQ@4 (second column), together with
    Holdbac@ YM-C Plus (third column) or together with Lb. fermentum CHCC14591 (fourth
    column). The plates had been incubated at 7±10 C for 11 days (Top row) or at 25±10 C for 5
    days (bottom row). The target contaminants were added in concentrations of 1 x 103 cfu/spot
30  (top row), 1 x 102 cfu/spot (middle row) and 1 x 10' cfu/spot (bottom row): (A) Torulaspora
    delbrueckii, (B)   Cryptococcus hansenii, (C) Debaryomyces      hansenii and (D)   Yarrowia
    lipolytica.
    Figure 6: Diacetyl levels after storage at 7±1 0 C for 14 days in fermented milk products
35  fermented with starter culture alone (Reference), or starter cultures in combination with
    FreshQ@4, Holdbac@ YM-C Plus or Lb. fermentum CHCC14591. LOD: Limit of detection. LOQ:
    Limit of quantification.

                                                   19
   Figure 7: Growth of molds on plates prepared from milk fermented with a starter culture
   alone (reference, first column), together Lb. rhamosus CHCC15860 (second column), together
   with Lb. fermentum CHCC14591         (third column) or together with a combination of Lb.
   rhamnosus CHCC15860 and Lb. fermentum CHCC14591 (fourth column). The plates had been
 5 incubated at 25±10 C for 5 days. The target contaminants were added in concentrations of
   500 spores/spot: (A) P. carneum, (B) P. paneum and (C) P. roqueforti.
   Figure 8: Growth of molds on plates prepared from milk fermented with (1) a starter culture
   alone, together with (2) Lb. fermentum CHCC12798, (3) Lb. fermentum CHCC12797, (4) Lb.
10 fermentum CHCC14591, (5) Lb. fermentum CHCC14588, (6) Lb. fermentum CHCC15844, (7)
   Lb. fermentum CHCC15865, (8) Lb. fermentum CHCC15847, (9) Lb. fermentum CHCC15848,
   (10) Lb. fermentum CHCC15926, and (11)         Lb. fermentum CHCC2008. The plates had been
   incubated at 25±10 C for 5 days (left column of photos) or 7 days (right column of photos).
   The   target contaminants     were added    in   concentrations of 500 spores/spot:   (A)   P.
15 brevicompactum (DSM32094), (B) P. crustosum and (C) P. solitum (DSM32093).
   Figure 9: Diacetyl levels after storage at 7±1 0 C for 14 days in fermented milk products
   fermented with starter culture alone (Reference), or starter cultures in combination with
   FreshQ@4, Holdbac@ YM-C Plus or Lb. fermentum strains. LOD: Limit of detection. LOQ: Limit
20 of quantification.
   Figure 10: pH development in fermented milk products over time when stored at (A) 7±10 C
   and (B) 25±10 C for 28 days. The products are fermented with starter culture only, Reference,
   or starter culture in combination with FreshQ@4, Holdbac@@ YM-C Plus or Lb. fermentum
25 strains.
   Figure 11: pH development in fermented milk products over time when stored at (A) 7±10 C
   or (B) 25±10 C for 21 days. The products are fermented with starter culture only (Reference,
   A) or starter culture in combination with FreshQ@4 (<),        Holdbac@ YM-C Plus (o) or Lb.
30 fermentum CHCC14591 (E).
   Figure 12: Acetaldehyde levels after storage at 7±1 0 C for 14 days in fermented milk
   products fermented with starter culture alone (Reference), or starter cultures in combination
   with Lb. fermentum strains. LOD: Limit of detection. LOQ: Limit of quantification.
35
   Figure 13: Acetaldehyde levels after storage at 7±1 0 C for 14 days in fermented milk
   products fermented with starter culture alone (Reference), or starter cultures in combination
   with Lb. fermentum CHCC14591. LOD: Limit of detection. LOQ: Limit of quantification.

                                                 20
   Figure 14: Acidification curves of four commercial starter cultures, FD-DVS YF-L812, F-DVS
   YF-L901, F-DVS YoFlex Mild 2.0 and F-DVS CH-1, grown in milk (1% fat and 4.5% protein) at
   43 0 C.
 5
   Figure 15: Post-acidification curves of yoghurt fermented with one of four commercial starter
   cultures, FD-DVS YF-L812, F-DVS YF-L901, F-DVS YoFlex Mild 2.0 and F-DVS CH-1 after
   storage at 60 C for up to 43 days.
10 Figure 16: Growth of molds on plates prepared from milk fermented with (1) a starter
   culture alone, FD-DVS YF-L812, together with (2) Lb. fermentum CHCC12798, (3) Lb.
   fermentum CHCC12797, (4) Lb. fermentum CHCC14591, (5) Lb. fermentum CHCC14588, (6)
   Lb. fermentum CHCC15844, (7) Lb. fermentum CHCC15865, (8) Lb. fermentum CHCC15847,
   (9) Lb. fermentum CHCC15926, and (10) Lb. fermentum CHCC2008. The plates had been
15 incubated at 25±10 C for 4 days (left column of photos) or 8 days (right column of photos).
   The target contaminant, P. brevicompactum (DSM32094), was added in concentrations of 500
   spores/spot.
   Figure 17: Growth of molds on plates prepared from milk fermented with (1) a starter
20 culture alone, F-DVS CH-1, together with (2) Lb. fermentum CHCC12798, (3) Lb. fermentum
   CHCC12797, (4) Lb. fermentum CHCC14591, (5) Lb. fermentum CHCC14588, (6) Lb.
   fermentum CHCC15844, (7) Lb. fermentum CHCC15865, (8) Lb. fermentum CHCC15847, (9)
   Lb. fermentum CHCC15926, and (10) Lb. fermentum CHCC2008. The plates had been
   incubated at 25±10 C for 4 days (left column of photos) or 8 days (right column of photos).
25 The target contaminant, P. brevicompactum (DSM32094), was added in concentrations of 500
   spores/spot.
   Figure 18: Growth of molds on plates prepared from milk fermented with (1) a starter
   culture alone, FD-DVS YF-L812, together with (2) Lb. fermentum CHCC12798, (3) Lb.
30 fermentum CHCC12797, (4) Lb. fermentum CHCC14591, (5) Lb. fermentum CHCC14588, (6)
   Lb. fermentum CHCC15844, (7) Lb. fermentum CHCC15865, (8) Lb. fermentum CHCC15847,
   (9) Lb. fermentum CHCC15926, and (10) Lb. fermentum CHCC2008. The plates had been
   incubated at 25±10 C for 4 days (left column of photos) or 8 days (right column of photos).
   The target contaminant, P. solitum (DSM32093), was added in concentrations of 500
35 spores/spot.
   Figure 19: Growth of molds on plates prepared from milk fermented with (1) a starter
   culture alone, F-DVS CH-1, together with (2) Lb. fermentum CHCC12798, (3) Lb. fermentum

                                                    21
    CHCC12797, (4) Lb. fermentum CHCC14591, (5) Lb. fermentum CHCC14588, (6) Lb.
    fermentum CHCC15844, (7) Lb. fermentum CHCC15865, (8) Lb. fermentum CHCC15847, (9)
    Lb. fermentum CHCC15926, and (10) Lb. fermentum CHCC2008. The plates had been
    incubated at 25±10 C for 4 days (left column of photos) or 8 days (right column of photos).
  5 The target contaminant, P. solitum (DSM32093), was added in concentrations of 500
    spores/spot.
    Figure 20: Diacetyl levels after storage at 7±10 C for 14 days in fermented milk products
    fermented with starter culture, FD DVS YF-L812 or F-DVS CH-1, alone (Reference), or starter
10  cultures in combination one of the nine Lb. fermentum strains. LOD: Limit of detection. LOQ:
    Limit of quantification.
    Figure 21 : Acetaldehyde levels after storage at 7±10 C for 14 days in fermented milk
    products fermented with starter culture, FD DVS YF-L812 or F-DVS CH-1, alone (Reference),
15  or starter cultures in combination one of the nine Lb. fermentum strains. LOD: Limit of
    detection. LOQ: Limit of quantification.
    Example 1:
20  Semi-quantitative      analysis of the inhibitory effect of Lb. fermentum CHCC14591
    against different yeast and mold contaminants and diacetyl production
    For the semi-quantitative analysis of the inhibitory effect of Lb. fermentum CHCC14591, an
    agar-assay was used, resembling the manufacturing process and product of yoghurt:
25
    Reduced-fat (1.5%      w/v) homogenized milk was heat-treated at 90±10 C for 20 min and
    cooled immediately. A commercial starter culture (F-DVS Mild 2.0) was inoculated at 0.02%
    (v/w), and the inoculated milk was distributed into 200 ml bottles. One bottle was inoculated
    with Lb. fermentum CHCC14591 in total concentration of 2 x 107 CFU/g, two bottles were
30  inoculated with either of two commercial bioprotective cultures (FreshQ@4 and Holdbac@ YM
    C Plus) in recommended dosages (100U/T and 20 DCU/100L for FreshQ@4 and Holdbac@ YM
    C Plus, respectively), and one bottle was used as a reference and only inoculated with the
                                                                          0
    starter culture. All bottles were incubated in a water bath at 431      C and fermented at these
    conditions until pH of 4.60±0.1 was reached. After fermentation, the bottles were vigorously
35  shaken to break the coagulum and cooled on ice. Then the fermented milk was warmed to a
    temperature of 40 0 C and added 40 ml of a   5
                                                   % sterile agar solution that had been melted and
                         0
    cooled down to 60 C. This solution of fermented milk and agar was then poured into sterile
    Petri dishes and the plates were dried in a LAF bench for 30 min.

                                                  22
   Spore suspension of six different molds were spotted in concentration of 500 spores/spot;
   Penicillium brevicompactum (DSM32094), P. crustosum, P. solitum (DSM32093), P. carneum,
   P. paneum and P. roqueforti. Three molds were spotted on each plate. Four yeasts including
 5  Torulaspora    delbrueckii, Cryptococcus  hansenii,   Debaryomyces    hansenii  and   Yarrowia
   lipolytica were spotted in concentrations of 104, 103 and  102 CFU/spot. Plates were incubated
           0             0
   at 7±1 C and 25±1 C and regularly examined for the growth of molds and yeast.
   On day 14 samples were analysed for diacetyl by static head space gas chromatography
10 (HSGC), a sensitive method for analyzing volatiles in complex matrices. The setup consisted
   of a Static Head Space sampler connected to Gas Chromatograph with Flame Ionization
   Detector (FID). For that purpose the following equipment was used:
             HS-autosampler: HS40XI, TurboMatrix 110, Perkin Elmer.
15           HS-software: HSControl v.2.00, Perkin Elmer.
             GC: Autosystem XL, Perkin Elmer.
             GC-software: Turbochrom navigator, Perkin Elmer.
             Column: HP-FFAP 25 m x 0.20 mm x 0.33 pin, Agilent Technologies
20 Standards of known concentration were used to determine response factors (calibration),
   controls were used to control that the used response factors were stable within an analytical
   series as well as in-between series and over time (months). Concentration of volatiles (ppm)
   in samples and controls was determined using response factors coming from standards.
   Samples were prepared by adding 200 pl of 4N H 2 SO 4 to 1 g yoghurt sample and immediately
25 analyzed by HSGC.
   Results of the agar-assay are presented in Figures 1-5, showing that all of the tested molds
   grew very well on the agar plates made from milk fermented only with the starter culture
   (reference). However, when Lb. fermentum CHCC14591 was present during milk fermentation
30 the resulting plates inhibited growth of all of the Penicillium species tested. The level of
   inhibition was comparable or even higher than the inhibition observed for the two commercial
   bioprotective cultures. Figure 3 shows that all of the tested yeasts grew on the agar plates
   made from milk fermented only with the starter culture (reference). When Lb. fermentum
   CHCC14591 was present during milk fermentation the resulting plates prevented growth of C.
35 fragiola and Y lipolytica added in all concentrations. Growth of T. delbrueckii and D. hansenii
   was inhibited in the lower concentrations when Lb. fermentum         CHCC14591 was present
   during milk fermentation. The level of inhibition was comparable or even higher than the
   inhibition observed for the two commercial bioprotective cultures.

                                                   23
   The effect on diacetyl production is illustrated in Figure 6, showing that addition of Lb.
   fermentum CHCC14591 during milk fermentation produce minimal amounts of diacetyl when
   compared to commercially available alternatives.
 5
   Example 2:
   Semi-quantitative analysis of the inhibitory effect of Lb. fermentum CHCC14591                 in
   combination with Lb. rhamnosus CHCC15860 against different mold contaminants
10 For the semi-quantitative analysis of the inhibitory effect of a combination of Lb. fermentum
   CHCC14591 and Lb. rhamnosus CHCC15860,              an agar-assay was used,       resembling the
   manufacturing process and product of yoghurt:
   Reduced-fat (1.5%      w/v) homogenized milk was heat-treated at 90±10 C for 20 min and
15 cooled immediately. A commercial starter culture (F-DVS Mild 2.0) was inoculated at 0.02%
   (v/w), and the inoculated milk was distributed into 200 ml bottles. One bottle was inoculated
   with Lb. rhamnosus CHCC15860 in total concentration of 1 x 107 CFU/g, one bottle was
   inoculated with Lb. fermentum CHCC14591 in total concentration of 1 x 107 CFU/g, one bottle
   was inoculated with Lb. fermentum         CHCC14591 and Lb. rhamnosus CHCC15860 each in
20 concentration of 5 x   106 CFU/g, and one bottle was used as a reference and only inoculated
                                                                                  0
   with the starter culture. All bottles were incubated in a water bath at 431      C and fermented
   at these conditions until pH of 4.60±0.1 was reached. After fermentation, the bottles were
   vigorously shaken to break the coagulum and cooled on ice. Then the fermented milk was
   warmed to a temperature of 40 0 C and added 40 ml of a         5
                                                                    % sterile agar solution that had
                                           0
25 been melted and cooled down to 60 C. This solution of fermented milk and agar was then
   poured into sterile Petri dishes and the plates were dried in a LAF bench for 30 min.
   Spore suspension of three different molds were spotted in concentration of 500 spores/spot;
   P. carneum, P. paneum and P. roqueforti. Three molds were spotted on each plate. Plates
30 were incubated at 25±1 0 C and regularly examined for the growth of molds.
   Results of the agar-assay are presented in Figure 7, showing that all of the tested molds grew
   very well on the agar plates made from          milk fermented only with the starter culture
   (reference). However, when Lb. rhamnosus 15860 or the Lb. fermentum CHCC14591 were
35 present during milk fermentation the resulting plates inhibited growth of the three Penicillium
   species tested. Furthermore, a synergistic inhibitory effect was found when Lb. rhamnosus
   CHCC15860 and Lb. fermentum CHCC14591 were used in combination compared to the
   inhibitory effect of each strain used alone.

                                                   24
    Example 3:
    Semi-quantitative      analysis of the inhibitory effect of ten      Lb. fermentum strains
    against different mold contaminants
  5
    For the semi-quantitative analysis of the inhibitory effect of ten Lb. fermentum strains, an
    agar-assay was used, resembling the manufacturing process and product of yoghurt:
    Reduced-fat (1.5%      w/v) homogenized milk was heat-treated at 90±10 C for 20 min and
10  cooled immediately. A commercial starter culture (F-DVS YF-L901) was inoculated at 0.02%
    (v/w),   and the inoculated milk was distributed into 200 ml bottles. Ten           bottles were
    inoculated with the Lb. fermentum strains in concentrations of 1 x 107 CFU/g and one bottle
    was used as a reference and only inoculated with the starter culture. All bottles were
                                        0
    incubated in a water bath at 431      C and fermented at these conditions until pH of 4.60±0.1
15  was reached. After fermentation, the bottles were vigorously shaken to break the coagulum
    and cooled on ice. Then the fermented milk was warmed to a temperature of 40 0 C and added
                 5
    40 ml of a     % sterile agar solution that had been melted and cooled down to 60 0 C. This
    solution of fermented milk and agar was then poured into sterile Petri dishes and the plates
    were dried in a LAF bench for 30 min.
20
    The   tested   Lb.  fermentum  strains were:    Lb. fermentum   CHCC12798,      Lb.   fermentum
    CHCC12797,      Lb.  fermentum   CHCC14591,     Lb. fermentum   CHCC14588,      Lb.   fermentum
    CHCC15844,      Lb.  fermentum   CHCC15865,     Lb. fermentum   CHCC15847,      Lb.   fermentum
    CHCC15848, Lb. fermentum CHCC15926, and Lb. fermentum CHCC2008.
25
    Spore suspension of six different molds were spotted in concentration of 500 spores/spot;
    Penicillium brevicompactum (DSM32094), P. crustosum, P. solitum (DSM32093), P. carneum,
    P. paneum and P. roqueforti. Three molds were spotted on each plate. Plates were incubated
    at 25±1 0 C and regularly examined for the growth of molds.
30
    On day 14 samples were analysed for diacetyl by static head space gas chromatography
    (HSGC), a sensitive method for analyzing volatiles in complex matrices. The setup consisted
    of a Static Head Space sampler connected to Gas Chromatograph with Flame Ionization
    Detector (FID). For that purpose the following equipment was used:
35
             HS-autosampler: HS40XI, TurboMatrix 110, Perkin Elmer.
             HS-software: HSControl v.2.00, Perkin Elmer.
             GC: Autosystem XL, Perkin Elmer.

                                                    25
             GC-software: Turbochrom navigator, Perkin Elmer.
             Column: HP-FFAP 25 m x 0.20 mm x 0.33 pin, Agilent Technologies
    Standards of known concentration were used to determine response factors (calibration),
  5 controls were used to control that the used response factors were stable within an analytical
    series as well as in-between series and over time (months). Concentration of volatiles (ppm)
    in samples and controls was determined using response factors coming from standards.
    Samples were prepared by adding 200 pl of 4N H 2SO 4 to 1 g yoghurt sample and immediately
    analyzed by HSGC.
10
    To monitor the effect on post acidification, the eleven fermented milk samples (starter culture
    alone and starter culture in combination with the ten Lb. fermentum strains) were stored at
         0
    71     C and 25±10 C for 28 days and pH was measured on day 1, 7, 14, 21 and 28.
15  Results of the agar-assay are presented in Figure 8, showing that all of the tested molds grew
    very well on the agar plates made from           milk fermented only with the starter culture
    (reference). For P. brevicompactum (DSM32094) and P. solitum (DSM32093) a large delay in
    the growth was observed for all of the Lb. fermentum strains when present during milk
    fermentation. For the remaining molds tested a varying delay in the growth was observed
20  when the Lb. fermentum strains were present during milk fermentation. Bacteria of the strain
    Lb. fermentum CHCC14591 achieved significant inhibition of essentially all molds tested in
    this assay.
    The effect on diacetyl production is illustrated in Figure 9, showing that each of the anti
25  fungal   strains Lb.   fermentum   CHCC12798,     Lb. fermentum     CHCC12797,  Lb. fermentum
    CHCC14591,      Lb.  fermentum    CHCC14588,     Lb.  fermentum    CHCC15844,   Lb. fermentum
    CHCC15865,      Lb.  fermentum    CHCC15847,     Lb.  fermentum    CHCC15848,   Lb. fermentum
    CHCC15926, and Lb. fermentum CHCC2008 secretes either none or very little diacetyl.
30  The effects on post-acidification are illustrated in Figure 10 and show that each of the Lb.
    fermentum      CHCC12798,    Lb.  fermentum    CHCC12797,     Lb.  fermentum   CHCC14591,   Lb.
    fermentum      CHCC14588,    Lb.  fermentum    CHCC15844,     Lb.  fermentum   CHCC15865,   Lb.
    fermentum CHCC15847,        Lb. fermentum CHCC15848,      Lb. fermentum CHCC15926, and Lb.
    fermentum      CHCC2008    does   not contribute   to post-acidification or even reduce   post
35  acidification compared to reference yoghurt.

                                                    26
    These findings were unexpected and are highly significant, as prior art antifungal food-grade
    bacteria were observed to contribute to the secretion of volatile compounds and to increase
    the post-acidification effects caused by the starter culture.
  5 Example 4:
    Effect of one Lb. fermentum strain on post-acidification
    One Lb. fermentum strain (CHCC14591) was tested for the effect on post-acidification.
10  Reduced-fat (1.5%     w/v) homogenized milk was heat-treated at 90±10 C for 20 min and
    cooled immediately. A commercial starter culture (F-DVS Mild 2.0) was inoculated at 0.02%
    (v/w), and the inoculated milk was distributed into 200 ml bottles. One bottle was inoculated
    with Lb. fermentum CHCC14591 in total concentration of 2 x 107 CFU/g, two bottles were
    inoculated with either of two commercial bioprotective cultures (FreshQ@4 and Holdbac@ YM
15  C Plus) in recommended dosages (100U/T and 20 DCU/100L for FreshQ@4 and Holdbac@ YM
    C Plus, respectively), and one bottle was used as a reference and only inoculated with the
                                                                         0
    starter culture. All bottles were incubated in a water bath at 431     C and fermented at these
    conditions until pH of 4.60±0.1 was reached. After fermentation, the bottles were vigorously
    shaken to break the coagulum and cooled on ice.
20
    To monitor the effect on post acidification, the four fermented milk samples (starter-only,
    FreshQ@4, Holdbac@ YM-C Plus and Lb. fermentum CHCC14591) were stored at 7±1 0 C and
    25±10 C for 21 days and pH was measured on day 1, 7, 14 and 21.
25  The effect on post-acidification is illustrated in Figure 11, showing that addition of Lb.
    fermentum CHCC14591 during milk fermentation prevents post-acidification of the fermented
    milk product. The starter culture alone gives slight post-acidification and the two commercial
    bioprotective cultures both contribute to post-acidification.
30
    Example 5:
    Effect of the ten Lb. fermentum strains on acetaldehyde content
    Ten Lb. fermentum strains were tested for their ability to lower acetaldehyde content.
35
    Reduced-fat (1.5%     w/v) homogenized milk was heat-treated at 90±10 C for 20 min and
    cooled immediately. A commercial starter culture (F-DVS YF-L901 Yo-Flex@) was inoculated
    at 0.02% (v/w), and the inoculated milk was distributed into 200 ml bottles. Ten bottles were

                                                   27
   inoculated with the Lb. fermentum strains in concentrations of 1 x 107 CFU/g and one bottle
   was used as a reference and only inoculated with the starter culture. All bottles were
                                       0
   incubated in a water bath at 431      C and fermented at these conditions until pH of 4.60±0.1
   was reached. After fermentation, the bottles were vigorously shaken to break the coagulum
 5 and cooled on ice. The bottles were stored at 7±10 C for 14 days.
   On day 14 samples were analyzed for acetaldehyde by static head space gas chromatography
   (HSGC), a sensitive method for analyzing volatiles in complex matrices. The setup consisted
   of a Static Head Space sampler connected to Gas Chromatograph with Flame Ionization
10 Detector (FID). For that purpose the following equipment was used:
           HS-autosampler: HS40XI, TurboMatrix 110, Perkin Elmer.
           HS-software: HSControl v.2.00, Perkin Elmer.
           GC: Autosystem XL, Perkin Elmer.
15         GC-software: Turbochrom navigator, Perkin Elmer.
           Column: HP-FFAP 25 m x 0.20 mm x 0.33 pin, Agilent Technologies
   Standards of known concentration were used to determine response factors (calibration),
   controls were used to control that the used response factors were stable within an analytical
20 series as well as in-between series and over time (months). Concentration of volatiles (ppm)
   in samples and controls was determined using response factors coming from standards.
   Samples were prepared by adding 200 pl of 4N H 2SO 4 to 1 g yoghurt sample and immediately
   analyzed by HSGC.
25 The results are illustrated in Figure 12 and show that each of the strains Lb. fermentum
   CHCC12798,     Lb.  fermentum    CHCC12797,     Lb.  fermentum  CHCC14591,      Lb. fermentum
   CHCC14588,     Lb.  fermentum    CHCC15844,     Lb.  fermentum  CHCC15865,      Lb. fermentum
   CHCC15847,     Lb. fermentum CHCC15848,       Lb. fermentum CHCC15926, and Lb. fermentum
   CHCC2008 has the ability to reduce the concentration of acetaldehyde produced by a starter
30 culture during fermentation in a fermented milk product.
   Example 6:
   Effect of one Lb. fermentum strain on acetaldehyde content
35 One Lb. fermentum strain was tested for the ability to lower acetaldehyde content.
   Reduced-fat (1.5%     w/v) homogenized milk was heat-treated at 90±10 C for 20 min and
   cooled immediately. A commercial starter culture (F-DVS Mild 2.0) was inoculated at 0.02%

                                                   28
    (v/w), and the inoculated milk was distributed into two 200 ml bottles. One bottle was
    inoculated with the Lb. fermentum strains in concentrations of 1 x 107 CFU/g and one bottle
    was used as a reference and only inoculated with the starter culture. Both bottles were
                                        0
    incubated in a water bath at 431      C and fermented at these conditions until pH of 4.60±0.1
  5 was reached. After fermentation, the bottles were vigorously shaken to break the coagulum
    and cooled on ice. The bottles were stored at 7±10 C for 14 days.
    On day 14 samples were analyzed for acetaldehyde by static head space gas chromatography
    (HSGC), a sensitive method for analyzing volatiles in complex matrices. The setup consisted
10  of a Static Head Space sampler connected to Gas Chromatograph with Flame Ionization
    Detector (FID). For that purpose the following equipment was used:
             HS-autosampler: HS40XI, TurboMatrix 110, Perkin Elmer.
             HS-software: HSControl v.2.00, Perkin Elmer.
15           GC: Autosystem XL, Perkin Elmer.
             GC-software: Turbochrom navigator, Perkin Elmer.
             Column: HP-FFAP 25 m x 0.20 mm x 0.33 pin, Agilent Technologies
    Standards of known concentration were used to determine response factors (calibration),
20  controls were used to control that the used response factors were stable within an analytical
    series as well as in-between series and over time (months). Concentration of volatiles (ppm)
    in samples and controls was determined using response factors coming from standards.
    Samples were prepared by adding 200 pl of 4N H 2SO 4 to 1 g yoghurt sample and immediately
    analyzed by HSGC.
25
    The results are illustrated in Figure 13 and show that Lb. fermentum CHCC14591 has the
    ability to reduce the concentration of acetaldehyde produced by a starter culture during
    fermentation in a fermented milk product.
30  Example 7:
    Functional analysis of commercial starter starter cultures
    The four commercial starter cultures included herein were chosen based on their different
    acidification profiles. Three were frozen, F-DVS CH-1, F-DVS YoFlex Mild 2.0 and F-DVS YF
35  L901, and one was freeze dried, FD-DVS YF-L812. To test the difference in acidification
    profiles, semi fat milk was standardized to 1% fat and 4.5% protein with skim milk powder
    and heat-treated at 85±10 C for 30 min and cooled immediately. One of four different
    commercial starter cultures (F-DVS CH-1, F-DVS YoFlex Mild 2.0, F-DVS YF-L901 or FD-DVS

                                                   29
   YF-L812) was inoculated at 0.02% (v/w), and the inoculated milk was distributed into 200 ml
                                                                    0
   bottles. The bottles were incubated in a water bath at 431         C and fermented under these
   conditions until pH 4.5 was reached. The pH was measured continually throughout the
   fermentation. Subsequently, the bottles were stored at 60 C for 43 for days and pH was
 5 measured with intervals of 7 days to determine the level of post-acidification.
   The acidification profiles of the four commercial starter cultures, F-DVS CH-1, F-DVS YoFlex
   Mild 2.0, F-DVS YF-L901 and FD-DVS YF-L812, are shown in Figure 14. F-DVS CH-1 showed
   fast fermentation time reaching pH 4.55 in 4.87 hours. F-DVS YoFlex Mild 2.0 showed
10 intermediate fermentation time reaching pH 4.55 in 5.29 hours. FD-DVS YF-L812 and F-DVS
   YF-L901 showed slower fermentation reaching pH 4.55 in 6.45 and 5.87 hours, respectively.
   Post-acidification profiles showed very low levels of post-acidification for FD-DVS YF-L812 and
   F-DVS    YoFlex Mild   2.0 (ApH=0.12     and  ApH=0.11 after storage at 60 C for 43 days),
   intermediate levels of post-acidification for F-DVS YF-L901 (ApH=0.26 after storage at 60 C for
15 43 days and high degree of post-acidification for F-DVS CH-1 (ApH=0.55 after storage at 60 C
   for 43 days) (Figure 15).

                                                   30
   Example 8:
   Semi-quantitative analysis of the inhibitory effect of nine Lb. fermentum strains
   against different mold contaminants when fermented with two different starter
   cultures
 5
   For the semi-quantitative analysis of the inhibitory effect of nine Lb. fermentum strains, an
   agar-assay was used, resembling the manufacturing process and product of yoghurt:
   Reduced-fat (1.5%      w/v) homogenized milk was heat-treated at 90±10 C for 20 min and
10 cooled immediately. Milk was inoculated with one of two commercial starter cultures (F-DVS
   CH-1 or FD-DVS YF-L812) at 0.02% (v/w), and the inoculated milk was distributed into 200
   ml bottles. Nine bottles inoculated with each starter culture were further inoculated with the
   Lb. fermentum strains in concentrations of 1 x    107 CFU/g and one bottle inoculated with each
   starter culture was used as a reference and only inoculated with the starter culture. All bottles
                                               0
15 were incubated in a water bath at 431         C and fermented at these conditions until pH of
   4.55±0.1 was reached. After fermentation, the bottles were vigorously shaken to break the
   coagulum and cooled on ice. Then the fermented milk was warmed to a temperature of 40 0 C
                             5
   and added 40 ml of a        % sterile agar solution that had been melted and cooled down to
      0
   60 C. This solution of fermented milk and agar was then poured into sterile Petri dishes and
20 the plates were dried in a LAF bench for 30 min.
   The   tested   Lb.  fermentum   strains were:    Lb.  fermentum  CHCC12798,     Lb.  fermentum
   CHCC12797,      Lb.  fermentum    CHCC14591,     Lb.  fermentum  CHCC14588,     Lb.  fermentum
   CHCC15844,      Lb.  fermentum    CHCC15865,     Lb.  fermentum  CHCC15847,     Lb.  fermentum
25 CHCC15926, and Lb. fermentum CHCC2008.
   Spore suspensions of two different molds were spotted in concentration of 500 spores/spot;
   Penicillium brevicompactum (DSM32094) and P. solitum (DSM32093). One mold was spotted
   on each plate. Plates were incubated at 7±1 0 C and 25±1 0 C and regularly examined for the
30 growth of molds.
   On day 14 samples were analysed for diacetyl by static head space gas chromatography
   (HSGC), a sensitive method for analyzing volatiles in complex matrices. The setup consisted
   of a Static Head Space sampler connected to Gas Chromatograph with Flame Ionization
35 Detector (FID). For that purpose the following equipment was used:
            HS-autosampler: HS40XI, TurboMatrix 110, Perkin Elmer.
            HS-software: HSControl v.2.00, Perkin Elmer.

                                                  31
           GC: Autosystem XL, Perkin Elmer.
           GC-software: Turbochrom navigator, Perkin Elmer.
           Column: HP-FFAP 25 m x 0.20 mm x 0.33 pin, Agilent Technologies
 5 Standards of known concentration were used to determine response factors (calibration),
   controls were used to control that the used response factors were stable within an analytical
   series as well as in-between series and over time (months). Concentration of volatiles (ppm)
   in samples and controls was determined using response factors coming from standards.
   Samples were prepared by adding 200 pl of 4N H 2 SO 4 to 1 g yoghurt sample and immediately
10 analyzed by HSGC.
   Results of the agar-assay are presented in Figures 16-19, showing that both of the tested
   molds grew very well on the agar plates made from milk fermented only with one of the
   starter cultures (reference).   For both P. brevicompactum       (DSM32094)    and P. solitum
15 (DSM32093) a large delay in the growth was observed for all of the Lb. fermentum strains,
   when present during milk fermentation regardless of the starter culture used.
   The effect on diacetyl production is illustrated in Figure 20, showing that each of the anti
   fungal  strains Lb.   fermentum   CHCC12798,    Lb. fermentum     CHCC12797,    Lb. fermentum
20 CHCC14591,      Lb. fermentum    CHCC14588,    Lb.  fermentum     CHCC15844,    Lb. fermentum
   CHCC15865,     Lb. fermentum CHCC15847,      Lb. fermentum CHCC15926,       and Lb. fermentum
   CHCC2008 adds no diacetyl to the level produced by the starter culture.
   These findings were unexpected and are highly significant, as prior art antifungal food-grade
25 bacteria were observed to contribute to the secretion of volatile compounds caused by the
   starter culture.
   Example 9:
   Effect of the nine Lb. fermentum strains on acetaldehyde content when fermented
30 with two different starter cultures
   Nine Lb. fermentum strains were tested for their ability to lower acetaldehyde content.
   Reduced-fat (1.5%     w/v) homogenized milk was heat-treated at 90±10 C for 20 min and
35 cooled immediately. Milk was inoculated with one of two commercial starter cultures (F-DVS
   CH-1 or FD-DVS YF-L812) at 0.02% (v/w), and the inoculated milk was distributed into 200
   ml bottles. Nine bottles were inoculated with the Lb. fermentum strains in concentrations of 1

                                                   32
   x 107 CFU/g and one bottle inoculated with each starter culture was used as a reference and
                                                                                                0
   only inoculated with the starter culture. All bottles were incubated in a water bath at 431    C
   and fermented at these conditions until pH of 4.55±0.1 was reached. After fermentation, the
   bottles were vigorously shaken to break the coagulum and cooled on ice. The bottles were
 5 stored at 7±1 0 C for 14 days.
   The   tested  Lb.   fermentum  strains were:     Lb.  fermentum   CHCC12798,    Lb.  fermentum
   CHCC12797,     Lb.   fermentum   CHCC14591,     Lb.   fermentum   CHCC14588,    Lb.  fermentum
   CHCC15844,     Lb.   fermentum   CHCC15865,     Lb.   fermentum   CHCC15847,    Lb.  fermentum
10 CHCC15926, and Lb. fermentum CHCC2008.
   On day 14 samples were analyzed for acetaldehyde by static head space gas chromatography
   (HSGC), a sensitive method for analyzing volatiles in complex matrices. The setup consisted
   of a Static Head Space sampler connected to Gas Chromatograph with Flame Ionization
15 Detector (FID). For that purpose the following equipment was used:
           HS-autosampler: HS40XI, TurboMatrix 110, Perkin Elmer.
           HS-software: HSControl v.2.00, Perkin Elmer.
           GC: Autosystem XL, Perkin Elmer.
20         GC-software: Turbochrom navigator, Perkin Elmer.
           Column: HP-FFAP 25 m x 0.20 mm x 0.33 pin, Agilent Technologies
   Standards of known concentration were used to determine response factors (calibration),
   controls were used to control that the used response factors were stable within an analytical
25 series as well as in-between series and over time (months). Concentration of volatiles (ppm)
   in samples and controls was determined using response factors coming from standards.
   Samples were prepared by adding 200 pl of 4N H 2 SO 4 to 1 g yoghurt sample and immediately
   analyzed by HSGC.
30 The results are illustrated in Figure 21 and show that each of the strains Lb. fermentum
   CHCC12798,     Lb.   fermentum   CHCC12797,     Lb.   fermentum   CHCC14591,    Lb.  fermentum
   CHCC14588,     Lb.   fermentum   CHCC15844,     Lb.   fermentum   CHCC15865,    Lb.  fermentum
   CHCC15847, Lb. fermentum CHCC15926, and Lb. fermentum CHCC2008 has the ability to
   reduce the concentration of acetaldehyde produced by a starter culture during fermentation in
35 a fermented milk product.

                                                   33
   REFERENCES
   EP0221499
   EP0576780
 5 EP1442113
   US5,378,458
   EP2 693 885
   EP13717237
   EP13714671
10 Gerez et al., Control of spoilage fungi by lactic acid bacteria, Biological Control, vol. 64
   (2013): 231-237
   Aunsbjerg et al., Contribution of volatiles to the antifungal effect of Lactobacillus paracasei in
   defined medium and yoghurt, Int J Food Microbiology, vol. 194 (2015): 46-53
   Kosikowski, F.V. and Mistry, V.V., "Cheese and Fermented Milk Foods", 1997, 3rd Ed. F.V.
15 Kosikowski, L.L.C. Westport, CT
   DEPOSITS and EXPERT SOLUTION
20 The applicant requests that a sample of the deposited micro-organisms stated below may only
   be made available to an expert, until the date on which the patent is granted.
   The Lactobacillus fermentum strain CHCC12798 was deposited at German Collection of
   Microorganisms    and   Cell  Cultures    (Deutsche   Sammlung      von   Mikroorganismen     und
25 Zellkulturen GmbH; DSMZ), Inhoffenstr. 7B, D-38124 Braunschweig deposited on 2015-07-16
   under the accession No.: 32084.
   The Lactobacillus fermentum strain CHCC12797 was deposited at German Collection of
   Microorganisms    and   Cell  Cultures    (Deutsche   Sammlung      von   Mikroorganismen     und
30 Zellkulturen GmbH; DSMZ), Inhoffenstr. 7B, D-38124 Braunschweig deposited on 2015-07-16
   under the accession No.: 32085.
   The Lactobacillus fermentum strain CHCC14591 was deposited at German Collection of
   Microorganisms    and   Cell  Cultures    (Deutsche   Sammlung      von   Mikroorganismen     und
35 Zellkulturen GmbH; DSMZ), Inhoffenstr. 7B, D-38124 Braunschweig deposited on 2015-07-16
   under the accession No.: 32086.

                                                 34
    The Lactobacillus fermentum   strain CHCC14588   was deposited at German    Collection of
    Microorganisms    and  Cell  Cultures  (Deutsche  Sammlung   von   Mikroorganismen    und
    Zellkulturen GmbH; DSMZ), Inhoffenstr. 7B, D-38124 Braunschweig deposited on 2015-07-16
    under the accession No.: 32087.
  5
    The Lactobacillus fermentum   strain CHCC15844   was deposited at German    Collection of
    Microorganisms    and  Cell  Cultures  (Deutsche  Sammlung   von   Mikroorganismen    und
    Zellkulturen GmbH; DSMZ), Inhoffenstr. 7B, D-38124 Braunschweig deposited on 2015-07-16
    under the accession No.: 32088.
10
    The Lactobacillus fermentum   strain CHCC15865   was deposited at German    Collection of
    Microorganisms    and  Cell  Cultures  (Deutsche  Sammlung   von   Mikroorganismen    und
    Zellkulturen GmbH; DSMZ), Inhoffenstr. 7B, D-38124 Braunschweig deposited on 2015-07-16
    under the accession No.: 32089.
15
    The Lactobacillus fermentum   strain CHCC15847   was deposited at German    Collection of
    Microorganisms    and  Cell  Cultures  (Deutsche  Sammlung   von   Mikroorganismen    und
    Zellkulturen GmbH; DSMZ), Inhoffenstr. 7B, D-38124 Braunschweig deposited on 2015-07-16
    under the accession No.: 32090.
20
    The Lactobacillus fermentum   strain CHCC15848   was deposited at German    Collection of
    Microorganisms    and  Cell  Cultures  (Deutsche  Sammlung   von   Mikroorganismen    und
    Zellkulturen GmbH; DSMZ), Inhoffenstr. 7B, D-38124 Braunschweig deposited on 2015-07-16
    under the accession No.: 32091.
25
    The Lactobacillus fermentum   strain CHCC15926   was deposited at German    Collection of
    Microorganisms    and  Cell  Cultures  (Deutsche  Sammlung   von   Mikroorganismen    und
    Zellkulturen GmbH; DSMZ), Inhoffenstr. 7B, D-38124 Braunschweig deposited on 2015-07-22
    under the accession No.: 32096.
30
    The  Lactobacillus fermentum    strain CHCC2008  was deposited  at German   Collection of
    Microorganisms    and  Cell  Cultures  (Deutsche  Sammlung   von   Mikroorganismen    und
    Zellkulturen GmbH; DSMZ), Inhoffenstr. 7B, D-38124 Braunschweig deposited on 2009-05-19
    under the accession No.: 22584.
35
    The Lactobacillus rhamnosus strain CHCC15860     was deposited at German    Collection of
    Microorganisms    and  Cell  Cultures  (Deutsche  Sammlung   von   Mikroorganismen    und

                                                  35
   Zellkulturen GmbH; DSMZ), Inhoffenstr. 7B, D-38124 Braunschweig deposited on 2015-07-16
   under the accession No.: 32092.
   The   Penicillium  solitum    strain  CHCC16948   was  deposited  at German   Collection   of
 5 Microorganisms    and    Cell   Cultures (Deutsche   Sammlung    von Mikroorganismen     und
   Zellkulturen GmbH; DSMZ), Inhoffenstr. 7B, D-38124 Braunschweig deposited on 2015-07-16
   under the accession No.: 32093.
   The Penicillium brevicompactum strain CHCC16935 was deposited at German Collection of
10 Microorganisms    and    Cell   Cultures (Deutsche   Sammlung    von Mikroorganismen     und
   Zellkulturen GmbH; DSMZ), Inhoffenstr. 7B, D-38124 Braunschweig deposited on 2015-07-16
   under the accession No.: 32094.
   The deposits were made according to the Budapest treaty on the international recognition of
15 the deposit of microorganisms for the purposes of patent procedure.

                                          36
The present invention relates at least in part to the following non-limiting
embodiments:
Embodiment 1.         Bacterium of the species Lactobacillus fermentum having the
ability to inhibit the growth of the fungus Penicillium solitum deposited under the
accession No.: DSM32093 or the growth of the fungus Penicillium brevicompactum
deposited under the accession No.: DSM32094 by at least 50%.
Embodiment 2.         Bacterium of the species Lactobacillus fermentum according to
embodiment 1, wherein the ability to inhibit the growth of the fungus Penicillium
solitum deposited under the accession No.: DSM32093 or the growth of the fungus
Penicillium brevicompactum deposited under the accession No.: DSM32094 by at
least 50% is determined in an assay comprising:
(1)     preparing a fermented milk product by:
(a)     inoculating a milk with the Lactobacillus fermentum in a concentration of at
least 107 CFU/g and with a starter culture,
(b)     fermenting until a pH of 4.6 is reached, and
(c)     solidifying the fermented milk by the addition of agar;
(2)     generating at least one spot of the P. solitum or the P. brevicompactum on
the agar solidified fermented milk with a concentration of 500 spores/spot and
incubating the same for 7 days at 25 OC;
(3)     determining the percent inhibition by determining the largest diameter of
the colony formed by growth of the P. solitum or P. brevicompactum and
expressing the diameter as percent of the largest diameter formed under the same
conditions but in the absence of the Lactobacillus fermentum strain.
Embodiment 3.         Bacterium of the species Lactobacillus fermentum according to
embodiment 1 or 2, wherein the bacterium has the ability to reduce the
concentration of acetaldehyde produced by a starter culture during fermentation
in a fermented milk product by at least 50%.
Embodiment 4.         Bacterium of the species Lactobacillus fermentum according to
any one of embodiments 1 to 3, wherein the bacterium has the ability to reduce
the concentration of acetaldehyde produced by a starter culture during
fermentation in a fermented milk product by at least 50%/., at least 75%, at least
95% or at least 98%, and wherein the concentration of acetaldehyde is
determined in an assay comprising:

                                         37
(1)    preparing a fermented milk product by:
(a)    inoculating a milk with the Lactobacillus fermentum in a concentration of at
least 107 CFU/g and with a starter culture,
(b)    fermenting until a pH of 4.6 is reached, and;
(2)    storing the fermented milk product at 7±1 0 C for 14 days;
(3)    adding 200 pl of 4N H2 SO4 to 1 g of the fermented milk product and
determining the concentration of acetaldehyde by static head space gas
chromatography.
Embodiment 5.        Bacterium of the species Lactobacillus fermentum according to
any one of embodiments 1 to 4, wherein the bacterium secretes diacetyl in a range
of 0 to 5 ppm.
Embodiment 6.        Bacterium of the species Lactobacillus fermentum according to
any one of embodiments 1 to 5, wherein the bacterium secretes diacetyl in a range
of 0 to 5 ppm, and wherein the concentration of diacetyl is determined in an assay
comprising:
(1)    preparing a fermented milk product by:
(a)    inoculating a milk with the Lactobacillus fermentum in a concentration of at
least 107 CFU/g and with a starter culture,
(b)    fermenting until a pH of 4.6 is reached, and;
(2)    storing the fermented milk product at 7±1 0 C for 14 days;
(3)    adding 200 pl of 4N H2 SO4 to 1 g of the fermented milk product and
determining the concentration of diacetyl by static head space gas
chromatography.
Embodiment 7.        Bacterium of the species Lactobacillus fermentum according to
any one of embodiments 1 to 6, wherein the bacterium is characterized in that it
increases the pH of a fermented milk product comprising the Lactobacillus
fermentum during storage after fermentation in comparison to a milk product
fermented with the same starter culture not containing the Lactobacillus
fermentum.
Embodiment 8.        Bacterium of the species Lactobacillus fermentum according to
embodiment 7, wherein the increase in pH is at least by a value of 0.1.

                                          38
Embodiment 9.         Bacterium of the species Lactobacillus fermentum according to
embodiments 7 or 8, wherein the increase in pH is determined after storing the
fermented product over 21 days at 25 IC.
Embodiment 10.        Bacterium of the species Lactobacillus fermentum according to
any one of embodiments 1 to 9, wherein the bacterium is characterized in that a
fermented milk product comprising the Lactobacillus fermentum maintains a pH
above 4.0 when stored for at least 14 days at 25 OC, wherein the fermented milk
product is obtained by a method comprising inoculating a milk with the
Lactobacillus fermentum in a concentration of at least 107 CFU/g and with a starter
culture, fermenting until a pH of 4.6 is reached, shaking the fermented product
and cooling.
Embodiment 11.        Bacterium of the species Lactobacillus fermentum according to
any one of embodiments 1 to 10, wherein the bacterium is selected from the group
consisting of:
(a)    the Lactobacillus fermentum strain deposited as DSM32084;
(b)    the Lactobacillus fermentum strain deposited as DSM32085;
(c)    the Lactobacillus fermentum strain deposited as DSM32086;
(d)    the Lactobacillus fermentum strain deposited as DSM32087;
(e)    the Lactobacillus fermentum strain deposited as DSM32088;
(f)    the Lactobacillus fermentum strain deposited as DSM32089;
(g)    the Lactobacillus fermentum strain deposited as DSM32090;
(h)    the Lactobacillus fermentum strain deposited as DSM32091;
(i)    the Lactobacillus fermentum strain deposited as DSM32096;
(j)    the Lactobacillus fermentum strain deposited as DSM22584; or
(k)    a mutant strain obtainable from one the deposited bacteria according to (a)
to (j), wherein the mutant has the ability to inhibit the growth of the fungus
Penicillium solitum deposited at DSMZ under the accession No.: 32093 or the
growth of the fungus Penicillium brevicompactum deposited at DSMZ under the
accession No.: 32094 by at least 50% in an assay comprising:
(1)     preparing a fermented milk product by:
(a)     inoculating a milk with the Lactobacillus fermentum in a concentration of at
least 107 CFU/g and with a starter culture,
(b)    fermenting until a pH of 4.6 is reached, and
(c)    solidifying the fermented milk by the addition of agar;

                                          39
(2)    generating at least one spot of the P. solitum or the P. brevicompactum on
the agar solidified fermented milk with a concentration of 500 spores/spot and
incubating the same for 7 days at 25 OC;
(3)    determining the percent inhibition by determining the largest diameter of
the colony formed by growth of the P. solitum or P. brevicompactum and
expressing the diameter as percent of the largest diameter formed under the same
conditions but in the absence of the Lactobacillus fermentum strain.
Embodiment 12.       Composition comprising at least one Lactobacillus fermentum
strain according to any one of embodiments 1 to 11.
Embodiment 13.       The composition according to embodiment 12, wherein the
composition further comprises at least one further bacterium selected from:
(a)    Lactobacillus rhamnosus bacterium of strain CHCC15860 as deposited with
the German Collection of Microorganisms and Cell Cultures (DSMZ) under
accession No. DSM32092;
(b)    Lactobacillus rhamnosus bacterium of strain CHCC5366 as deposited with
the German Collection of Microorganisms and Cell Cultures (DSMZ) under
accession No. DSM23035;
(c)    Lactobacillus rhamnosus bacterium of strain CHCC12697 as deposited with
the German Collection of Microorganisms and Cell Cultures (DSMZ) under
accession No. DSM24616;
(d)    Lactobacillus paracasei bacterium of strain CHCC12777 as deposited with
the German Collection of Microorganisms and Cell Cultures (DSMZ) under
accession No. DSM24651; and
(e)    Lactobacillus paracasei bacterium of strain CHCC14676 as deposited with
the German Collection of Microorganisms and Cell Cultures (DSMZ) under
accession No. DSM25612.
Embodiment 14.       Composition according to embodiment 12 or 13, further
comprising at least one cryoprotective compound.
Embodiment 15.       Composition according to any one of embodiments 12 to 13,
wherein the composition is a solid frozen or freeze dried starter culture comprising
lactic acid bacteria in a concentration of at least 101 colony forming units per g of
frozen material or in a concentration of at least 1010 colony forming units per g of

                                          40
frozen material or in a concentration of at least 1011 colony forming units per g of
frozen material.
Embodiment 16.      Method of producing a fermented milk product comprising
adding a Lactobacillus fermentum bacterium according to any one of embodiments
1 to 11 or the composition according to any one of embodiments 12 to 15 to milk
or to a milk product and fermenting the mixture at a temperature between about
220 C and about 43 0 C until a pH of less than 4.6 is reached.
Embodiment 17.      The method according to embodiment 16, comprising adding
a Lactobacillus fermentum bacterium according to any one of embodiments 1 to
11 or the composition according to any one of embodiments 12 to 13 to milk or
to a milk product and fermenting the mixture
       (a)   such that the concentration of the Lactobacillus fermentum bacteria
of embodiment 1 is at least 1x10 6 cfu/g or at least 1x10 7 cfu/g at the termination
of fermentation in the fermented milk product; and/or
       (b)   such that the concentration of the Lactobacillus fermentum bacteria
of embodiment 1 is at least 1x10 5 cfu/cm 2 on the surface of the fermented milk
product.
Embodiment 18.      Method of producing a food, feed or pharmaceutical product
comprising a method of producing a fermented milk product according to
embodiment 16 or 17.
Embodiment 19.      Food, feed or pharmaceutical product obtainable by a method
of embodiment 18.
Embodiment 20.      Food, feed or pharmaceutical product comprising a bacterium
of the species Lactobacillus fermentum selected according to one of embodiments
1 to 11 and one or more of:
(a)    least one further bacterium selected from one or more of the following
genera Lactococcus spp., Streptococcus spp., Lactobacillus spp., Leuconostoc
spp., Pseudoleuconostoc spp., Pediococcus spp., Brevibacterium spp. and
Enterococcus spp.;

                                       41
(b)   Lactobacillus rhamnosus bacterium of strain CHCC15860 as deposited with
the German Collection of Microorganisms and Cell Cultures (DSMZ) under
accession No. DSM32092;
(c)   Lactobacillus rhamnosus bacterium of strain CHCC5366 as deposited with
the German Collection of Microorganisms and Cell Cultures (DSMZ) under
accession No. DSM23035;
(d)   Lactobacillus rhamnosus bacterium of strain CHCC12697 as deposited with
the German Collection of Microorganisms and Cell Cultures (DSMZ) under
accession No. DSM24616;
(e)   Lactobacillus paracasei bacterium of strain CHCC12777 as deposited with
the German Collection of Microorganisms and Cell Cultures (DSMZ) under
accession No. DSM24651; and
(f)   Lactobacillus paracasei bacterium of strain CHCC14676 as deposited with
the German Collection of Microorganisms and Cell Cultures (DSMZ) under
accession No. DSM25612.
Embodiment 21.      Fermentate obtainable by a method of embodiment 16 or 17.
Embodiment 22.      Fermentate   according  to  embodiment   21,  wherein   the
fermentate is a liquid.
Embodiment 23.      Method of producing a food, feed or pharmaceutical product,
comprising adding a fermentate according to embodiment 21 or 22 to a food, feed
or pharmaceutical product.

0-1   Form PCT/RO/134
      Indications Relating to Deposited
      Microorganism(s) or Other Biological
      Material (PCT Rule 13bis)
0-1-1 Prepared Using                           PCT    Online Filing
                                               Version 3.5.000.250e MT/FOP
                                               20141031/0.20.5.20
0-2   International Application No.
0-3   Applicant's or agent's file reference    P5813PCO 0
1     The indications made below relate to
      the deposited microorganism(s) or
      other biological material referred to in
      the description on:
1-1   page                                     33
1-2   line                                     25
1-3   Identification of deposit
1-3-1 Name of depositary institution           DSMZ Leibniz-Institut DSMZ - Deutsche
                                               Sammlung von Mikroorganismen und
                                               Zellkulturen GmbH (DSMZ)
1-3-2 Address of depositary institution        Inhoffenstr.      7B, 38124 Braunschweig,
                                               Germany
1-3-3 Date of deposit                          16 July 2015       (16.07.2015)
1-3-4 Accession Number                         DSMZ 32084
1-4   Additional Indications                   Sample only to       be issued to an expert
1-5   Designated States for Which              All designations
      Indications are Made
2     The indications made below relate to
      the deposited microorganism(s) or
      other biological material referred to in
      the description on:
2-1   page                                     33
2-2   line                                     30
2-3   Identification of deposit
2-3-1 Name of depositary institution           DSMZ Leibniz-Institut DSMZ - Deutsche
                                               Sammlung von Mikroorganismen und
                                               Zellkulturen GmbH (DSMZ)
2-3-2 Address of depositary institution        Inhoffenstr.      7B, 38124 Braunschweig,
                                               Germany
2-3-3 Date of deposit                          16 July 2015       (16.07.2015)
2-3-4 Accession Number                         DSMZ 32085
2-4   Additional Indications                   Sample only to       be issued to an expert
2-5   Designated States for Which              All    designations
      Indications are Made

3     The indications made below relate to
      the deposited microorganism(s) or
      other biological material referred to in
      the description on:
3-1   page                                     33
3-2   line                                     35
3-3   Identification of deposit
3-3-1 Name of depositary institution           DSMZ Leibniz-Institut DSMZ - Deutsche
                                               Sammlung von Mikroorganismen und
                                               Zellkulturen GmbH (DSMZ)
3-3-2 Address of depositary institution        Inhoffenstr. 7B, 38124 Braunschweig,
                                               Germany
3-3-3 Date of deposit                          16 July 2015 (16.07.2015)
3-3-4 Accession Number                         DSMZ 32086
3-4   Additional Indications                   Sample only to be issued to an expert
3-5   Designated States for Which              All designations
      Indications are Made
4     The indications made below relate to
      the deposited microorganism(s) or
      other biological material referred to in
      the description on:
4-1   page                                     34
4-2   line
4-3   Identification of deposit
4-3-1 Name of depositary institution           DSMZ Leibniz-Institut DSMZ - Deutsche
                                               Sammlung von Mikroorganismen und
                                               Zellkulturen GmbH (DSMZ)
4-3-2 Address of depositary institution        Inhoffenstr. 7B, 38124 Braunschweig,
                                               Germany
4-3-3 Date of deposit                          16 July 2015 (16.07.2015)
4-3-4 Accession Number                         DSMZ 32087
4-4   Additional Indications                   Sample only to be issued to an expert
4-5   Designated States for Which              All designations
      Indications are Made
5     The indications made below relate to
      the deposited microorganism(s) or
      other biological material referred to in
      the description on:
5-1   page                                     34
5-2   line                                     6
5-3   Identification of deposit
5-3-1 Name of depositary institution           DSMZ Leibniz-Institut DSMZ - Deutsche
                                               Sammlung von Mikroorganismen und
                                               Zellkulturen GmbH (DSMZ)
5-3-2 Address of depositary institution        Inhoffenstr. 7B, 38124 Braunschweig,
                                               Germany
5-3-3 Date of deposit                          16 July 2015 (16.07.2015)
5-3-4 Accession Number                         DSMZ 32088
5-4   Additional Indications                   Sample only to be issued to an expert
5-5   Designated States for Which              All designations
      Indications are Made

6     The indications made below relate to
      the deposited microorganism(s) or
      other biological material referred to in
      the description on:
6-1   page                                     34
6-2   line
6-3   Identification of deposit
6-3-1 Name of depositary institution           DSMZ Leibniz-Institut DSMZ - Deutsche
                                               Sammlung von Mikroorganismen und
                                               Zellkulturen GmbH (DSMZ)
6-3-2 Address of depositary institution        Inhoffenstr. 7B, 38124 Braunschweig,
                                               Germany
6-3-3 Date of deposit                          16 July 2015 (16.07.2015)
6-3-4 Accession Number                         DSMZ 32089
6-4   Additional Indications                   Sample only to be issued to an expert
6-5   Designated States for Which              All designations
      Indications are Made
7     The indications made below relate to
      the deposited microorganism(s) or
      other biological material referred to in
      the description on:
7-1   page                                     34
7-2   line                                     16
7-3   Identification of deposit
7-3-1 Name of depositary institution           DSMZ Leibniz-Institut DSMZ - Deutsche
                                               Sammlung von Mikroorganismen und
                                               Zellkulturen GmbH (DSMZ)
7-3-2 Address of depositary institution        Inhoffenstr. 7B, 38124 Braunschweig,
                                               Germany
7-3-3 Date of deposit                          16 July 2015 (16.07.2015)
7-3-4 Accession Number                         DSMZ 32090
7-4   Additional Indications                   Sample only to be issued to an expert
7-5   Designated States for Which              All designations
      Indications are Made
8     The indications made below relate to
      the deposited microorganism(s) or
      other biological material referred to in
      the description on:
8-1   page                                     34
8-2   line                                     21
8-3   Identification of deposit
8-3-1 Name of depositary institution           DSMZ Leibniz-Institut DSMZ - Deutsche
                                               Sammlung von Mikroorganismen und
                                               Zellkulturen GmbH (DSMZ)
8-3-2 Address of depositary institution        Inhoffenstr. 7B, 38124 Braunschweig,
                                               Germany
8-3-3 Date of deposit                          16 July 2015 (16.07.2015)
8-3-4 Accession Number                         DSMZ 32091
8-4   Additional Indications                   Sample only to be issued to an expert
8-5   Designated States for Which              All designations
      Indications are Made

9      The indications made below relate to
       the deposited microorganism(s) or
       other biological material referred to in
       the description on:
9-1    page                                     34
9-2    line                                     26
9-3    Identification of deposit
9-3-1  Name of depositary institution           DSMZ Leibniz-Institut DSMZ - Deutsche
                                                Sammlung von Mikroorganismen und
                                                Zellkulturen GmbH (DSMZ)
9-3-2  Address of depositary institution        Inhoffenstr. 7B, 38124 Braunschweig,
                                                Germany
9-3-3  Date of deposit                          22 July 2015 (22.07.2015)
9-3-4  Accession Number                         DSMZ 32096
9-4    Additional Indications                   Sample only to be issued to an expert
9-5    Designated States for Which              All designations
       Indications are Made
10     The indications made below relate to
       the deposited microorganism(s) or
       other biological material referred to in
       the description on:
10-1   page                                     34
10-2   line                                     31
10-3   Identification of deposit
10-3-1 Name of depositary institution           DSMZ Leibniz-Institut DSMZ - Deutsche
                                                Sammlung von Mikroorganismen und
                                                Zellkulturen GmbH (DSMZ)
10-3-2 Address of depositary institution        Inhoffenstr. 7B, 38124 Braunschweig,
                                                Germany
10-3-3 Date of deposit                          19 May 2009 (19.05.2009)
10-3-4 Accession Number                         DSMZ 22584
10-4   Additional Indications                   Sample only to be issued to an expert
10-5   Designated States for Which              All designations
       Indications are Made
11     The indications made below relate to
       the deposited microorganism(s) or
       other biological material referred to in
       the description on:
11-1   page                                     34
11-2   line                                     36
11-3   Identification of deposit
11-3-1 Name of depositary institution           DSMZ Leibniz-Institut DSMZ - Deutsche
                                                Sammlung von Mikroorganismen und
                                                Zellkulturen GmbH (DSMZ)
11-3-2 Address of depositary institution        Inhoffenstr. 7B, 38124 Braunschweig,
                                                Germany
11-3-3 Date of deposit                          16 July 2015 (16.07.2015)
11-3-4 Accession Number                         DSMZ 32092
11-4   Additional Indications                   Sample only to be issued to an expert
11-5   Designated States for Which              All designations
       Indications are Made

12     The indications made below relate to
       the deposited microorganism(s) or
       other biological material referred to in
       the description on:
12-1   page                                     35
12-2   line                                     5
12-3   Identification of deposit
12-3-1 Name of depositary institution           DSMZ Leibniz-Institut    DSMZ - Deutsche
                                                Sammlung von   Mikroorganismen und
                                                Zellkulturen   GmbH (DSMZ)
12-3-2 Address of depositary institution        Inhoffenst r.  7B, 38124 Brauns chweig,
                                                Germany
12-3-3 Date of deposit                          16 July 2015    (16.07.2015)
12-3-4 Accession Number                         DSMZ 32093
12-4   Additional Indications                   Sample only to be issued to an expert
12-5   Designated States for Which              All designations
       Indications are Made
13     The indications made below relate to
       the deposited microorganism(s) or
       other biological material referred to in
       the description on:
13-1   page                                     35
13-2   line                                     10
13-3   Identification of deposit
13-3-1 Name of depositary institution           DSMZ Leibniz-Institut    DSMZ - Deutsche
                                                Sammlung von Mikroorganismen und
                                                Zellkulturen GmbH (DSMZ)
13-3-2 Address of depositary institution        Inhoffenst r. 7B, 38124 Brauns chweig,
                                                Germany
13-3-3 Date of deposit                          16 July 2015 (16.07.2015)
13-3-4 Accession Number                         DSMZ 32094
13-4   Additional Indications                   Sample only to be issued to an expert
13-5   Designated States for Which              All designations
       Indications are Made
                                         FOR RECEIVING OFFICE USE ONLY
0-4    This form was received with the
       international application:
       (yes or no)
0-4-1  Authorized officer
                                    FOR INTERNATIONAL BUREAU USE ONLY
0-5    This form was received by the
       international Bureau on:
0-5-1  Authorized officer

                                         47
CLAIMS
1.    Bacterium of the species Lactobacillus rhamnosus CHCC15860 as
      deposited with the German Collection of Microorganisms and Cell Cultures
      (DSMZ) under accession No. DSM32092.
2.    Composition comprising the Lactobacillus rhamnosus strain according to
      claim 1.
3.   The composition according to claim 2, wherein the composition further
      comprises the Lactobacillus fermentum strain deposited as DSM32086
4.   The composition according to claim 2 or 3, further comprising at least one
      cryoprotective compound.
5.   The composition according to any one of claims 2 to 3, wherein the
      composition is a solid frozen or freeze dried starter culture comprising
      lactic acid bacteria in a concentration of at least 109 colony forming units
      per g of frozen material or in a concentration of at least 1010 colony
      forming units per g of frozen material or in a concentration of at least 1011
      colony forming units per g of frozen material.
6.    Method of producing a fermented milk product comprising adding the
      Lactobacillus rhamnosus bacterium according to claim 1 or the
      composition according to any one of claims 2 to 5 to milk or to a milk
      product and fermenting the mixture at a temperature between about 220 C
      and about 43 0 C until a pH of less than 4.6 is reached.
7.    Method of producing a food, feed or pharmaceutical product comprising a
      method of producing a fermented milk product according to claim 6.
8.    Food, feed or pharmaceutical product obtainable by a method of claim 7.
9.    Food, feed or pharmaceutical product comprising a bacterium of the
      species Lactobacillus rhamnosus according to claim 1 or the composition
      according to any one of claims 2 to 5.

                                       48
10. Use of the bacterium of the species Lactobacillus rhamnosus according to
    claim 1 or the composition according to any one of claims 2 to 5 to
    prepare food, feed or pharmaceutical product Id.
                               Chr. Hansen A/S
             Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                           SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                            12
                            10
                    --
                    -e
                    1:1;.
                    1:1;.
                     II
                    'Cl
                             8
                    >
                    .c 6
                     II
                    'Cl
                    ii 4
                    ll
                     \,ii
                    <
                             2
                                           .......... <U+FFFD>.....................................................................................................................................................................<U+FFFD> ................................................... .....<U+FFFD>····················
                                         --:----------------------r--------------<U+FFFD>--,-----.....,.-----...-·------·----<U+FFFD>------·,-<U+FFFD>-----<U+FFFD>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LOQ = 0.51 ppm
                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LOD = 0.15 ppm
                                   YF-L812    YF-L812 + YF-L812 + YF-l812+ YF-l812+ YF-L812+ YF-l812 + YF-L812 + YF-l812+ YF-l812 +
                                 (Reference) CHCC12798 CHCC12797 CHCC14591 CHCC14588 CHCC15844 CHCC15865 CHCC15847 CHCC15926 CHCC2008
   """'
   N
  ........
   """'
  N                         12
                            10
                    -
                    -e
                    1:1;.
                    1:1;.
                     Ill
                    "Cl
                             8
                    >
                    .c 6
                     Ill
                    "Cl
                    jII      4
                    \,ii
                    <
                             2
             ,...                      ...................................................................................................................................................................................... LOQ= 0.51 ppm
             C\I             0                         <U+FFFD><U+FFFD>-----.--<U+FFFD>---<U+FFFD>----r-----------<U+FFFD>-<U+FFFD>--<U+FFFD>-<U+FFFD>-<U+FFFD>-<U+FFFD>-,                                                                                                                          LOO= 0.15 ppm
             Q)
             ...                    CH-1       CH-1+     CH-1+     CH-1+     CH-1+     CH-1+     CH-1+     CH-1+     CH-1+    CH-1+
             :::,
             Cl                  (Reference) CHCC12798 CHCC12797 CHCC14591 CHCC14588 CHCC15844 CHCC15865 CHCC15847 CHCC15926 CHCC2008
             LL
<removed-date>                      <removed-apn>

