                                                ABSTRACT
            A solid state electrical energy state storage device includes multiple dielectric layers or
  an integral heterogeneous dielectric layer. Layers or portions of the heterogeneous layer have
  permittivity augmented by exposing the dielectric material to electric and/or magnetic fields
5 during formation of the dielectric before complete solidification.       Such exposure results in
  radicals and/or an ordered matrix. A dielectric for the device may contain a new xylene based
  polymer formed under atmospheric conditions via reaction with monatomic oxygen and provided
  an augmented permittivity through exposure of the polymer to a magnetic field and/or an electric
  field during condensation and solidification on a substrate.
  3422181vl

                    HIGH ENERGY DENSITY ELECTROSTATIC CAPACITOR
                                        FIELD OF THE INVENTION
            This invention relates generally to capacitors, and, more particularly, to a high energy
    density capacitor with a dielectric layer between augmented permittivity polymer layers.
 5                                           BACKGROUND
            Methods for the manufacture of capacitors are varied depending upon the nature of the
    capacitor and the energy storage requirements.        In electronics, low dissipation factor and
    small size are primary requirements.       In other applications the size of the energy storage
    device is less important than cost. In yet other applications, rapid delivery of the energy
 0  stored in the capacitor is a paramount concern.
            In the field of energy storage, capacitors are generally recognized as advantageous. In
    the past, pure electrostatic capacitors have usually been the least energy dense and one of the
    most expensive devices to store bulk energy.             Despite their limitations, electrostatic
    capacitors have found widespread use in electronics due to their ability to deliver very high
 5  power rates. This very attractive feature is due to the ways in which the power is stored
    within the capacitor.       For example, since the discharge of a capacitor does not generally
    depend upon the movement of electrochemical species in a relatively macro environment, the
    power delivered by a capacitor is generally at least several orders of magnitude greater than a
    similarly sized electrochemical battery.
 10         Capacitors are also generally able to withstand relatively low temperatures and
    relatively high temperatures.       Many types of capacitors perform in temperature ranges of
    30'C to 120'C. Extension of these ranges with controlled or linear capacitances is also a
    desirable feature.
           Unfortunately, capacitors are also generally characterized by high cost per unit energy
25  stored per volume or weight. Use of electrostatic capacitors for bulk energy storage has been
    severely hampered by the high unit costs in this application. A reduction in the unit cost per
    unit energy stored is desperately needed by the world' s increasing needs for energy storage.
            By way of background, assuming a 1 cubic meter volume and using units of the iks
    system, it can be shown that energy is proportional to permittivity and inversely proportional
30  to the square of the thickness or distance between electrodes, as follows:
                  U     e0 KV 2    e 0 KE 2
                         2d 2          2
                                                      1
    3422 181lvl

    where,           U= energy
                     V= Voltage between the electrodes
                     d= distance between electrodes
                     K = Relative Permittivity
 5                   eo = permittivity of vacuum
                     E = Electric Field (V/d)
           The thinnest dielectric at the highest voltage possible (largest E-field) will provide the
    highest energy density possible at a given relative permittivity, K.        The highest voltage
    possible varies greatly depending upon the material used for the dielectric.       To obtain the
 0  highest energy storage levels, the dielectric should be very nonconductive, have a good
    permittivity and be as thin as possible.
           Any conductivity between the electrodes is termed leakage current and is to be avoided.
    At some voltage level the dielectric will become conductive, by either the leakage current
    rising to unacceptable levels or the leakage current rising dramatically in a fraction of a
 5  second (usually accompanied by a plasma spark).          The limit of the E-field value varies
    greatly depending upon the molecular chemical nature of the dielectric and the morphology
    of the dielectric material.
           As a general rule the more polar a molecule in the dielectric, the higher the dielectric
    constant (i.e., relative permittivity). And, as a general rule the high dielectric breakdown
 '0 voltage materials tend to have low permittivity. Exceptions to those general rules are certain
    compounds, such as barium titanate or other Perovskite types of mixed metal oxides
    (ceramics). Those types of compounds we can see both high permittivity and good resistance
    to dielectric voltage breakdown. However, another problem then occurs when these types of
    dielectrics are pushed to energy storage levels that are beyond their capabilities. In particular,
25  metal oxide ceramics have difficulty maintaining high            permittivity at large E-fields
    (voltages). As an example, it has often been found that the permittivity of barium titanate at
    high E-fields results in an over 100 times reduction in permittivity versus the low E-field
    permittivity. Thus, the need for a high E-field breakdown material with simultaneous high
    permittivity is needed in electrostatic capacitor devices. It is therefore important that the
30  voltage rating for the capacitor be as high as possible when energy storage is the primary use
    for the device.
           In addition to having a high break down voltage, a high energy density capacitor should
    also possess an extremely low leakage current. Thus, when the capacitor has been charged to
                                                    2
    3422181vl

    a given voltage, the rate of charge conduction from one electrode to the other should be a
    relatively small value. When the capacitor is charged for energy storage over a given period
    of time, the rate of leakage is an acceptably low enough value that would vary depending on
    the use of the storage device (how long is it stored) and the "value" of the energy thus stored
 5  (how easy is it to recharge and the cost of the charge). While an acceptable value for leakage
    may vary greatly from application to application, leakage is undesirable and to be avoided
    and minimized.
           Heretofore it has been recognized that the addition of insulative materials to the
    dielectric matrix can cause an unwanted diminution in the value of the dielectric breakdown
 0  strength. In general this is true. Also the construction of a capacitor is governed by the
    geometric construction of the device. A multilayer dielectric is generally not preferred for a
    film capacitor. Setting aside the complications involved in forming several layers between
    the electrodes for the dielectric, the overall gain of energy storage is usually little if any. This
    is caused by the reduction in the E-field that is necessary when the layers are diminished in
 5  thickness.
           Due to the desirable characteristics of electrostatic capacitors and other undesirable
    features, an improvement in the methods and materials for the construction of these energy
    storage device and improved capacitors incorporating these materials are needed.                The
    invention is directed to overcoming one or more of the problems and solving one or more of
 '0 the needs as set forth above.
                                  SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
           To solve one or more of the problems set forth above, in an exemplary implementation
    of the invention, a solid state electrical energy state storage device, such as a capacitor,
    includes a pair of conductive electrodes, i.e., a first electrode and a second electrode. The
25  first electrode and second electrode are parallel and spaced apart by an intervening space. A
    primary dielectric comprised of a primary dielectric material is disposed between the pair of
    conductive electrodes within the intervening space. The primary dielectric has a first surface
    adjacent to the first electrode and an opposite second surface adjacent to the second electrode.
    The secondary dielectric layer is comprised of a secondary dielectric material and is disposed
30  between and in contact with the first surface of the primary dielectric and the first electrode.
    The secondary dielectric layer has an augmented permittivity, i.e., a permittivity that is
    augmented by exposing the dielectric to a magnetic field and/or an electric field during
    formation of the dielectric material, before the dielectric material has fully solidified. The
                                                      3
    3422181vl

    tertiary dielectric layer may also have an augmented permittivity.           The permittivity and
    composition of the secondary and/or tertiary dielectric layers may be different from the
    permittivity of the primary dielectric. The permittivity and composition of the secondary and
    tertiary dielectric layers may be, but do not have to be, the same. The secondary and tertiary
 5  dielectric layers may thin films having thicknesses that are substantially less than the primary
    thickness of the primary dielectric.        The secondary and tertiary dielectric layers may
    comprised of an insulating polymer, such as a xylene based polymer. Further, the xylene
    based polymer may be a puralene polymer, which is a new xylene based polymer formed
    under atmospheric conditions via reaction with monatomic oxygen and provided an
 0  augmented permittivity through exposure of the polymer to a magnetic field and/or an
    electric field during condensation and solidification on a substrate. Exposure to an electric
    field provides an electric field ordered solid matrix. Exposure to a magnetic field induces
    radical intermediate species and attendant increases in permittivity.
           In another embodiment, the solid state electrical energy state storage device includes an
 5  integrally formed heterogeneous dielectric         disposed between the pair of conductive
    electrodes.    In this embodiment, the dielectric has different compositions (e.g., different
    concentrations of constituents) through its volume, and different permittivities through its
    volume.
           By way of example, the integrally formed heterogeneous dielectric may have a first
 '0 portion including a first surface and a first composition, a central portion and a second
    portion including a second surface opposite the first surface and a second composition. The
    first surface is adjacent to and in contact with the first electrode. The opposite second surface
    is adjacent to and in contact with the second electrode.         The central portion has a central
    composition and is disposed between the first portion and the second portion. The central
25  composition has a central average permittivity.        The first composition has a first average
    permittivity.    The second composition has a second average permittivity.           The first and
    second average permittivities may be the same augmented permittivity (e.g., electric field
    and/or magnetic field augmented permittivity) and may be different from the central average
    permittivity.
                                                     4
    3422181vl

                              BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           The foregoing and other aspects, objects, features and advantages of the invention will
    become better understood with reference to the following description, appended claims, and
    accompanying drawings, where:
 5         Figure 1 is a side view of an exemplary capacitor that may contain conductive and
    dielectric elements according to principles of the invention; and
           Figure 2 is a perspective view of an exemplary capacitor that may contain conductive
    and dielectric elements according to principles of the invention; and
           Figure 3 is a high level flowchart that illustrates an exemplary method of producing an
 0  augmented permittivity material for use in a capacitor according to principles of the
    invention; and
           Figure 4 is a schematic that conceptually illustrates an exemplary structure comprising
    layers of materials for a capacitor according to principles of the invention; and
           Figure 4 is a schematic that conceptually illustrates another exemplary structure
 5  comprising layers of materials for a capacitor according to principles of the invention.
           Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the figures are not intended to be drawn to
    any particular scale; nor are the figures intended to illustrate every embodiment of the
    invention. The invention is not limited to the exemplary embodiments depicted in the figures
    or the specific components, configurations, shapes, relative sizes, ornamental aspects or
 '0 proportions as shown in the figures.
                                        DETAILED DESCRIPTION
           In a capacitor with a multilayer dielectric between two electrodes, where each dielectric
    layer may have distinct relative permittivity, the overall permittivity is the following:
                                                    I-    +,    +f
25                                                K    Ka    Kb    K
    Where K       = overall relative permittivity
              fx  =  volume fraction percent of layer x
               K, =  relative permittivity of layer x
           The lowest permittivity layer predominates in the calculations to a very large extent
30  when the volume fractions of the layers are relatively equal. However, when the volume
    fraction percent of the low permittivity material is small and permittivity of the larger bulk
    layer is large, then the overall permittivity of the device is less substantially compromised by
    the low permittivity material. This is illustrated in the table below.
                                                       5
    3422181vl

                               Permittivity   (K)
                                                   3.0          6.0          12.0
                               of layer a
                               Permittivity   (K)
                                                   20000.0      20000.0      20000.0
                               of layer b
                      fa      fb                   K            K            K
                       0.1     0.9                 30.0         59.8         119.4
                       0.2     0.8                 15.0         30.0         59.9
                  Table 1.
            Thus, if the volume fractions are chosen carefully and relative permittivity of the layers
     is optimized, then vast improvement of the dielectric can take place. Heretofore these
     improvements have not been realized due to the processes, materials, and the methods
   5 defined herein having not been invented.
            The aforementioned results are tempered by the ability of the dielectric to withstand
     substantial E-fields without dielectric breakdown or excessive leakage currents.       Thus, the
     benefit of energy storage improvements in the permittivity can be completely negated by a
     reduction in the working E-field values.
   0        A common misconception is that the permittivity of a given material is linear to the
     point of its breakdown voltage. Extreme non-linearity in permittivity is usually found.        In
     certain cases (e.g., barium titanate) the reduction in permittivity can be over 100 times the
     low field value. Thus, increases in E-field are less productive in traditional capacitor design
     than thought.
15          A previously known general class of energy storage devices is referred to as HED
     (High Energy Density) capacitors.       These capacitors are electrostatic capacitors that are
     different from EDLC (Electrical Double Layer Capacitor) type of capacitors commonly
     referred to as supercapacitors or ultracapacitors.         As the design, manufacture, and
     performance of the energy storage devices disclosed herein differ in construction, materials,
20   and overall performance so much from previously known devices for energy storage, a new
     term for these devices is used herein. The acronym SHED (Super High Energy Density) is a
     name given to a capacitor having a structure and composition according to principles of the
     invention.   SHED capacitors have properties and a design that are most closely related to
     traditional electrostatic capacitors.   Concomitantly, SHED capacitors have performance
                                                    6
     3422181vl

    characteristics that are normally associated with polymer film capacitors, but the energy
    densities are vastly greater than that of traditional film capacitors by orders of magnitude.
           Additionally, in the case of a SHED capacitor, reduced E-fields are present in the bulk
    dielectric and permittivity is linear with E-field. This enables substantially increased energy
 5  storage.
           In a preferred embodiment, substantial improvements in the voltage rating, leakage
    current, and dielectric permittivity of an energy storage capacitor are realized.      While the
    improvements as described herein relate to the field of energy storage, the methods and
    devices disclosed herein may be applied to other devices, imparting improved frequency
 0  response and reduced dielectric absorption.
           In one or more embodiments, a high permittivity low leakage capacitor and energy
    storage device is described having the following improved characteristics:
              1) High voltage rating (High break-down E-field),
              2) High relative permittivity,
 5            3) Low leakage current at maximum voltage charge,
              4) Small size and weight,
              5) Safe use due to low toxicity and other hazards,
              6) Easy and better manufacturing procedures,
              7) Environmentally friendly manufacturing,
 10           8) High rate of discharge and charge, and
              9) Ability to fully discharge their electrical energy.
           A process for manufacturing high permittivity high quality materials for use in a
    capacitor according to principles of the invention is also disclosed. Among the materials is a
    material referred to herein as Puralene, which is a compounds that possess the characteristics
25  of a recognized class of materials known as parylenes.           The Puralene class of materials
    extends into materials comprised of polymeric aromatics possessing carbon atoms alpha to
    aromatic moieties within the starting materials. Puralenes are one class of materials that can
    be used to make energy storage devices according to principles of the invention.
           The varieties of dielectrics that may be used to form a capacitor are virtually limitless.
30  To produce a substantially improved energy storage device, it requires more than simply
    making a dielectric and putting it between two electrodes. The method whereby the dielectric
    is selected, transformed, and applied is important and not obvious to those skilled in the art of
    electrostatic capacitor manufacture.         Additionally, embodiments are described whereby
                                                        7
    3422181vl

    certain known methods of manufacture which are commonly discounted as being unattractive
    methods of process are shown to be actually superior methods for the production of high
    energy density electrostatic capacitors.
           During manufacture a magnetic or electric field or both may imposed upon the
 5  dielectric material, i.e., the dielectric material may be exposed to such fields as part of the
    manufacturing process.       The exposure to an electric or magnetic field during processing
    results in a different material that exhibits increased permittivity, i.e., augmented permittivity.
    At low electric field potentials, the increase in permittivity is proportionally increased with
    the increase in the electric field potential. In some salts of inorganic metal ions the increase
 0  in the permittivity is achieved when exposed to a magnetic field. Additionally, exposure to
    magnetic fields enhances permittivity of organic compounds.
           Simultaneous utilization of an electric field and a magnetic field can help reduce the
    requirements for the strength of either field with materials that respond to the magnetic field.
    When electric field strengths of almost any magnitude are impressed upon the dielectric,
 5  before full solidification, while the dielectric is in a pliable or less viscous state, an increase
    in the permittivity of the resulting dielectric is achieved. This is made possible using the low
    temperature processes described herein. Electric field strengths greater than 100 V/micron
    provide greater than 100% improvement in the permittivities of several different organic and
    inorganic dielectrics.
 10        Magnetic fields may also be used to cause increases in the permittivities.           Even a
    relatively small magnetic field (e.g., about 1 Gauss) has caused observable increases in the
    permittivity of polymeric materials and/or crystallization of polymers, small molecule
    organics, and salts of both inorganic and organic nature. Strong magnetic fields seem to
    induce greater amounts of permittivity increases than weak fields. Permittivities in the range
25  of 7 to >2000 and improvements in permittivities from normal range from 5% to >6000%
    have been observed utilizing the methods taught.
           In the case of a molecule in which there is substantial polarization and/or separation of
    charge due to zwitterionic structures, the acid and the base may be contained within the
    molecule itself. In those cases, high dielectric polarization may be achieved within a single
30  molecule. Good permittivities may be obtained with amino acids where an acid and base
    chemical moiety is found.         However, in many protein matrices, ionic forms may be
    encapsulated with the protein backbone.         In the case of the protein zein, this structure is
                                                      8
    3422181vl

    believed to produce a high permittivity dielectric when solidified under a magnetic and/or
    electric field.
           The following representative embodiments, set forth specific examples of methods of
    making a high permittivity material in accordance with the present disclosure. It is
 5  understood that the disclosure need not be limited to the disclosed embodiments but it is
    intended to cover various modifications thereof, including combinations of the steps and
    components of the various examples.
           Referring now to Figures 1 and 2, a conventional form of a capacitor (originally known
    as condenser) is conceptually illustrated. The capacitor includes housing which contains a
 0  dielectric material disposed between a pair of opposed plates, referred to as electrodes.
    Connecting leads extend from the electrodes.        The configuration and arrangement of the
    housing, connecting leads, plates and dielectric material may have many variations. While
    the invention may be applied to a capacitor of the type illustrated in Figures 1 and 2, the
    invention is not limited to such a particular capacitor configuration.
 5         Referring now to Figure 3, a high level flowchart that illustrates an exemplary method
    of producing an augmented permittivity material, e.g., Puralene, for use in a capacitor
    according to principles of the invention is shown.        Sections, referred to chambers, may
    comprise tanks having an inlet and an outlet or tubular structures with an inlet and an outlet.
    Chamber 210 is a heated tube or other evaporation device to volatilize starting material feed
 .0 200. Starting material feed 200 is evaporated and mixed with inert gas 205 in chamber 210.
    Inert gas 205 may be any of a group of inert gases, such as, but not limited to, Argon.
    Substitution of nitrogen for argon and/or other essentially inert gases is possible. Pumps and
    valves may be used to propel and control the flow of fluids from one station to another.
           By way of example and not limitation, chamber 210 may comprise an electrically
25  heated Inconel (nickel alloy 600) pyrolysis reaction tube. The tube is heated to a temperature
    of about 4500C to 6300C at atmospheric pressure. A flowing stream of argon gas alone, or
    with a reactive compound such as nitrous oxide, is supplied to the pyrolysis reaction tube.
    The starter material feed 200 may be xylene vapor (Aldrich #134449-4L). If the carrier gas
    205 includes a reactive compound (e.g., N2 0), the ratio of gases is adjusted to provide
30  approximately molar stoichiometric ratios of 1:1 (xylene to nitrous oxide).
           The heated starter material 200 in the volatile mixture with inert gas reacts with
    monatomic oxygen in reaction chamber 215. Being very reactive and transient, monatomic
    oxygen must be available to react with the volatile mixture in the reaction chamber 215. As
                                                    9
    3422181vl

    discussed above, the source of monatomic oxygen may be a gaseous compound supplied with
    the carrier gas 205, or a gaseous compound supplied separately 240, or another source, such
    as a plasma generator 235.
           Monatomic oxygen plasma may be created by exposing oxygen (02) gas at a low
 5  pressure to a high power energy source, such as an RF discharge, which ionizes the gas.
    Alternatively, a compound such as Nitrous Oxide (N 2 0) may supply monatomic oxygen for
    the reaction.   Thus, a monatomic oxygen plasma generator 235, or a monatomic oxygen
    chemical compound (e.g., N 2 0) feed 240, or another suitable source of monatomic oxygen is
    provided.
 0         A plasma gas can be used with the aforementioned starting materials to form the
    intermediate oxidized products that may subsequently react to form reaction products that are
    oxidized forms of the starting materials which may be monomers, dimers, trimers, oligomers,
    or polymers. The plasma generator 235 includes a gas feed 230 that supplies gas to a plasma
    reaction chamber 220. A plasma driver 225 provides high power energy to ionize the gas.
 5         The ratio of gases is adjusted to provide approximately molar stoichiometric ratios of
    1:1 (xylene to nitrous oxide or xylene to monatomic oxygen plasma). Illustratively, increased
    amounts of nitrous oxide result in partial and/or complete oxidation of xylene with reduced
    formation of the desired cyclophane or its polymer. Close control of the stoichiometry is
    desired in this gas phase reaction.
 10        The reaction products are supplied to a reaction chamber 235, which is heated to
    approximately 4500 C to 800' C to facilitate vaporization of the reaction products.         The
    vaporized reaction products 245are expelled onto a low temperature collection surface 250,
    where the reaction products condense and form a solid. At higher temperatures (650' C to
    800'C) the output of the reaction chamber 235 is sufficiently hot enough to maintain the
25  monomeric p-xylylene in monomeric form.
           Condensation of the gas onto a cooled glass vessel resulted in the deposition of a
    colorless to cream colored solid. This solid is partially soluble in 95% ethanol. The solid was
    compared to a sample of [2,2' ]paracyclophane (Aldrh #P225-5G-A) by GC analysis
    (SRI#310, 15m, megabore column, FID detector) and was shown to give identical retention
30  times.
           Rapidly cooling of the monomer onto a surface 250 results in a liquid condensation of
    the monomer and rapid polymerization of the monomer into a polymer. Comparison of the
    film thus produced appears to be identical to parylene film produced by the Gorham process.
                                                   10
    3422181vl

   Without augmentation, pennittivity of the solidified product is about 3, electric breakdown
   strengths are about identical at 100 V/micon, and solubility in both hot and cold solvents are
   below detectable levels.
          In this reaction it is believed that the reactive p-xylylene reactive intermediate is formed
 5 and subsequently dimerized in the reaction tube 235 or during condensation 245 onto the
   substrate 250. This reaction used to synthesize the dimer. in comparison with the known
   "Gorham process", results in a vast improvement in the overall synthesis yield of the dinmer
   and also results in a vast improvement in the purity of the dimer directly from the reaction. It
   is understood that variation in the stoichiometric amounts of the reactants may be adjusted to
 0 provide for greater or lesser yield with associated purities varying to provide a more
   economical process or better overall production efficiency without substantially deviating
   from the scope of this invention. Subsequent purifications of the materials from this reaction
   can be performed on this material in a manner that is much easier to accomplish than with
   previously taught processes. The reaction is shown below.
                             pyroys,.450to
                           3630-C,a.gIr.
            HaCasfloo                          -                              / \
     H3C            N2                       H+                           cc
                                                 +N   2  +20:
 5
          As the reaction temperature at station 235 is increased to >650"C, the deposition of the
   xylylene    monomer can proceed directly onto a solid substrate target without necessity for
   isolating the intermediate dimer.         Deposition of the exit gas at above       6 50UC  reaction
   temperature upon a cool glass plate resulted in formation of an ethanol insoluble substance
20 that displays characteristics ofa parylene polymer However, solubility characteristics clearly
   show that the material is insoluble in all common solvents (i.e. hexane, xylene, ethyl acetate,
   ethanol, water)
          It is believed that the reaction mechanism proceeds through a mute involving the prior
   decomposition of nitrous oxide. Nitous oxide is energetically unstable molecule that can be
25 thermally decomposed at elevated temperatures.             Products of the reaction are diatomic
   nitrogen and monoatomic oxygen. The monoatomic oxygen is able to react with itself to
   form diatomic oxygen, but this reaction is relatively slow.        Estimates vary determining the
   temperature that pure thermal decomposition occurs, but estimates of 1100' C are often cited.
   Catalysis of this reaction as shown below in equation I is known to occur with a variety of
                                                        II
   3422'1RM

       metal oxides and mixed metal oxides.                 Some temperatures used for nitrous oxide
       decomposition with certain catalysts are as low as 350' C.
        N=N-O         -          3   N     N    +      O(0)                   Equation 1
            CH 3                                     CH 2
                      +       O                                +   H2 0       Equation 2
            CH 3                                     CH 2
 5            The reactive species for the process is very likely the monoatomic oxygen produced
       from the decomposition of the nitrous oxide. In this sense, the nitrous oxide can be viewed as
       a convenient carrier for the delivery of the reactive intermediate monoatomic oxygen.
              In a similar manner to the nitrous oxide reaction, pure diatomic oxygen can be utilized
       as a reactant. However, to produce substantial yields of the desired products, activation of
 0     the oxygen is necessary. It is believed that activation of the oxygen is due to the excitation of
       the oxygen molecule to produce monoatomic oxygen as shown in Equation 3.
        0=0          [plasma]          (O) +     0()                          Equation 3
              The reaction with monoatomic oxygen produced in this manner thus proceeds in a
       manner similar to that of the nitrous oxide decomposition route.
 5            Cooling of the elevated temperature gases 245 exiting from the reaction tube 235 is
       necessary. If the reaction gas is at too high of a temperature, the ability of the reactive
       intermediate to condense and adhere to a surface is greatly reduced. To this end, a device to
       mix cool nonreactive gases into the hot reaction stream has been devised. The reaction may
       proceed at increased pressure (above atmospheric pressure). Accordingly, an expansion valve
20     may be used at the exit of the reaction tube 235 to provide Joule-Thomson effect cooling of
       the hot gas when the gas is below its inversion temperature.
              The method may be extended to other substrates such as the ones shown below.
           CH 3
                                                                  OCH 3                            CH 3
                   5I         CI             OH3                         CH 3    H3
                                                                      I          H3C               CH 3
           CH3                               CI       H3 C                      1,2,4-TRIMETHYLBENZENE
   2-CHLORO-1,4-          2,5-DICHLORO-PARA-          2,5-DIMETHYLANISOLE
   DIMETHYLBENZENE        XYLENE
                                                           12
       3422181vl

           Substituents such as the ones noted above (chloro, dichloro, methoxy, and methyl) are
    not the only aromatic substituents that are capable of being modified by this process into
    reactive intermediates and their subsequent polymers.       Additionally, paracyclophanes and
 5  compounds derived thereof are not exclusive to this process. Meta and ortho orientation of
    the substituents on the aromatic rings are also viable reaction starting materials. The reaction
    can be generalized to include all compounds that are capable of reaction with monatomic
    oxygen produced from a plasma or from decomposed nitrous oxide or its intermediate
    reaction products and also contain hydrogen atoms stabilized by the presence of an aromatic
 0  ring. Typically such hydrogen atoms are located in a position alpha to a phenyl ring (benzylic
    position). Michael structures removed from the alpha aromatic ring positions are known to
    give similar reactivity to the hydrogen alpha to the aromatic ring position as is well known to
    those versed in organic synthesis.     However, the reactivity of such hydrogen atoms is not
    limited to alpha and/or Michael positions from an aromatic ring or the aromatic ring such as
 5  benzene. Other aromatic stabilization are known for many different rings, fused rings, and
    non-ring systems, as known to those versed in the art of organic chemistry. Such starting
    materials may preferably have the presence of two hydrogen atoms that are capable of being
    removed to form partially oxidized starting materials. These preferred materials may
    optionally have the ability to dimerize, trimerize, oligiomerize, or polymerize. The
 '0 nonlimiting example used herein is p-xylene.
           A preferred implementation of the invention augments permittivity of the polymer by
    exposing the condensing reaction products 245 to a magnetic or electric field. To the output
    of the reactions described above, the gaseous stream of reaction product 245 is directed to a
    cool solid surface 250. Illustratively, the surface target 250 may be immersed in a magnetic
25  field 255 such as that provided by a Neodymium magnet (S84, K&J Magnetics). Other
    magnetic field sources may be utilized and are intended to come within the scope of the
    invention. Condensation of the monomer and subsequent polymerization can proceed rapidly
    while in the magnetic field 255. If the target and the magnet maintain the same relative
    orientation during the polymerization process, then a baseline increase in the electrical
30  permittivity will occur. If the orientation of the magnetic field 255 relationship to the target
    is rotated during the polymerization or solid phase condensation process, then the resulting
    permittivity will be decreased.
                                                    13
    3422181vl

            When the reaction is conducted as noted above, using the p-xylylene monomer as the
    polymerization molecule, but without the presence of the magnetic field the relative
    permittivity of the material deposited is approximately 3.         When the material is run as
    described with a magnetic flux 255 density of approximately 200 to 2000 Gauss, the relative
 5  permittivity is approximately 7.        Thus, the magnetic field substantially increases the
    permittivity by over a factor of 2 times. In a similar manner other salts, dipoles, and salts of
    organic acids can be entropically oriented during solidification or polymerizations to produce
    enhanced high permittivity materials. Improvements in permittivity range from 10 to over
    1000% may be attained.
 0          In another implementation, the surface target 250 is immersed in an electric field 255
    such as that provided by a high voltage power supply (G40, Emco, lead spacing 2" at
    4000V). Condensation of the monomer and subsequent polymerization can proceed rapidly
    while in the electric field.    If the target and the electric field maintain the same relative
    orientation during the polymerization process, then a baseline increase in the electrical
 5  permittivity will occur.    If the orientation of the electric field relationship to the target is
    rotated during the polymerization or solid phase condensation process, then the resulting
    permittivity will be lower.
            Condensation of dielectric reaction products in the presence of an electric and/or
    magnetic field, augments the permittivity of the condensed dielectric.          This step may be
 '0 applied to compounds other than parylene polymers.
            When the condensation step is conducted as noted above, using maleic acid salt with
    guanidine as a high dielectric material, but without the presence of the electric field the
    relative permittivity of the material deposited is approximately 500. When the material is run
    as described with an electric field density of 10,000 to 30,000 V/m, the relative permittivity is
25  approximately 25000 to 40000.            Thus, the electric field substantially increases the
    permittivity by at least a factor of 25 in that particular case. In a similar manner other salts,
    dipoles, and salts of organic acids can be entropically oriented during solidification or
    polymerizations to produce enhanced high permittivity materials.                Improvements in
    permittivity range from 50 to over 10000%.
30          The use of electrical and/or magnetic fields during the condensation process modifies
    the mechanical strength. The material may not be anisotropic after condensation in strong
    fields.   Thus, this method is a way of controlling the mechanical properties of the reaction
    products made by this procedure.
                                                     14
    3422181vl

           Referring now to Figure 4, an exemplary capacitor structure according to principles of
    the invention is conceptually illustrated. A removable carrier film 325 (e.g., a polymer film
    such as TFE or other non-stick surface material as generally known) is used as an initial
    substrate upon which a conductive coating 305 is deposited.          This layer 305 is the first
 5  electrode. The coating 305 may be aluminum or other conductive metal or possibly a carbon
    coating or conductive polymer. Next, a thin coating of a high permittivity dielectric material
    315, such as a Puralene polymer with augmented permittivity, is applied to the conductive
    coating 305 to provide a nonconductive surface 315 while the conductive coating 305 retains
    its conductivity in the two dimensions perpendicular to the coating plane. Subsequent to this
 0  step, a thick film of dielectric material 320 may then be applied to this surface 315 by any of
    a variety of methods known to those in the thick film coatings (e.g., screen coating, spin
    coating, vapor deposition, etc.)   Optionally, then another thin coating of a high permittivity
    dielectric material 310, such as a Puralene polymer with augmented permittivity, is applied to
    the surface of this dielectric thick film 320. Finally, the exposed surface of the layers is
 5  coated or put in contact with another conductive layer 300 to form an opposite electrode from
    the first 305.     Advantageously, the intermediate thin film dielectric layers 310, 315
    substantially enhance overall permittivity in a cost effective manner, without compromising
    break-down E-field or increasing leakage current at maximum voltage charge. Connection
    and mounting of the device thus constructed is well known to those versed in this art.
 10        An ionization process may be utilized to enable the dielectric 310, 315 to be applied as
    a thin film. An ionizing gas may be fed into a vapor (or atomized) material. The resulting
    material is electrically or magnetically augmented and directed to a removable carrier film, as
    described above. The carrier film has a conductive surface that is oppositely charged from
    the charge of the ionized dielectric. This surface then attracts the dielectric material 310, 315
25  to provide a smooth and uniform surface onto which the dielectric may condense.               The
    dielectric 310, 315 is condensed in the presence of an electric and/or magnetic field onto the
    conductive surface. After the dielectric 310, 315 is so formed, it may be applied as a layer of
    a capacitor and the carrier film may be removed.
           In another embodiment, the dielectric coating 310, 315 is applied by means of an
30  ionization process as a thin film. In this embodiment, an ionizing gas is fed into a vapor (or
    atomized) material. The resulting material is electrically charged and directed to the carrier
    film. The carrier film has a conductive surface that is oppositely charged from the charge of
    the ionized dielectric. This surface then attracts the dielectric material to provide a smooth
                                                    15
    3422181vl

    and uniform surface for the dielectric to condense. In this case the dielectric is condensed in
    the presence of an electric field onto the conductive surface. Additionally, the film surface is
    immersed in a magnetic field provided by a flowing electric current or a permanent magnet
    during the condensation or liquid spreading phase. After the dielectric 310, 315 is so formed,
 5  it may be applied as a layer of a capacitor and the carrier film may be removed.
           In yet another embodiment, each dielectric layer 310, 315 is applied, by means of an
    ionization process, as a thin film. In this embodiment the coating is applied is applied in a
    continuous fashion with a gradient of composition such that first a low permittivity material
    is applied, then a changing composition to a higher permittivity material is sequentially
 0  deposited, as conceptually illustrated in Figure 5. The composition of the dielectric layer
    410, once it reaches a certain thickness, may then have a constantly decreasing permittivity
    by incorporation of different layers or stepless gradient methods of deposition in liquid or
    vapor phase, e.g., CVD. This dielectric layer 410 is nonhomogeneous, having a permittivity
    gradient with permittivity being less at the dielectric-electrode interfaces 400-410, 405-410,
 5  than at the center of the dielectric 410. The dielectric 410 is disposed between electrodes
    400, 405.
           These methods of electrostatic capacitor manufacture are different from prior art
    methods and produce a structurally and functionally distinct capacitor.
           The principles of the invention may be applied to film capacitors. A conventional film
 '0 capacitor, which has a single layer of polymer film, exhibits the best dissipation factors and
    the best power delivery capabilities. Limited energy densities of film capacitors reduce their
    applications. With the methods described above, the limitation of energy density in the film
    capacitor can be substantially removed.
           An insulative polymer layer 310, 315 next to the electrode 300, 305 is optional. In
25  certain cases it is best to coat both electrodes with a coating that is thinner than would be
    otherwise used. This reduces the probability of a pore causing a leakage current. In addition,
    it may also be advantageous to the nature of the dielectric to apply an insulative layer within
    the bulk dielectric. This provides for better bonding and less stress when flexing the layers
    during handling due to the more flexible nature of the high permittivity materials in contact
30  with the electrodes.
           When a polymer for forming a SHED dielectric is chosen, a particularly excellent
    choice is a polymers from the parylene (poly-p-xylylene) family of polymers, which may be
    formed as Puralene using the method described above in relation to Figure 3. Puralene
                                                   16
    3422181vl

    polymer provide several advantages including 1) decreased number and size of pores, 2) low
    cost, 3) freedom from defects with self-healing properties, 4) ease of use and low cost of
    application, and 5) ability to have custom modifications of chemical and morphological
    structure. As a very cost effective choice Puralene is a preferred polymer for a capacitor
 5  according to principles of the invention.       However, other methods for forming pore-free
    coatings are known and can used in the manner described herein. Thus, the invention is not
    limited to the Puralene family of polymers and related derivative structures.
           As can be seen from the foregoing description, the present method avoids the high
    temperature methods greater than 5000 C at the dielectric formation site. This allows for the
 0  use of lower temperature polymers such as organic polymers.                In addition, the high
    permittivity dielectric may be used in conjunction with other high dielectric materials that
    normally would be unsuitable as capacitor dielectrics.
           A capacitor according to principles of the invention controls leakage current. The
    coating material coats and insulates, including contaminants.        This enables manufacture of
 5  the device with fewer defects and with better production yields. Since it is difficult to make
    most high permittivity dielectrics pure enough to display low conductivity (and thus
    producing high leakage currents), the use of organic polymers produced directly on the
    electrodes is superior to conventional polymers and dielectrics commonly found in
    electrostatic capacitors.
 10        The formation of the enhanced dielectric material in the presence of an electric field is
    believed to be a result of the orientation of the electrostatic charges and dipoles that are in the
    resulting mixed matrix of dielectric. The field causes an ordering of the polymer or the solid
    matrix in a largely entropically more ordered arrangement at a higher energy. This, in and of
    itself, does not cause an increase in permittivity, but it does allow for the less polar portions
25  of the dielectric to assume different energetically favored arrangements within the solid
    matrix in the presence of an electric field than in the absence of the field. In the absence of
    the ordering effect in the solid dielectric, the total energy difference in conformational
    changes that take place with the electric field versus the total energy in the absence of the
    field are smaller. This arrangement is referred to herein as an "electric field ordered solid
30  matrix," which appreciably augments permittivity.           A polymer having an electric field
    ordered solid matrix exhibits an augmented permittivity.
           It would be understandable if the sensitivity of the solid dielectric to magnetic field
    effects during the solidification process for the polymer or other solidification process
                                                     17
    3422181vl

    showed little effect. This is not the case, however. During any chemical reaction process
    there is a certain amount of radical character. It is believed that induced free electron radicals
    modify the course of the solidification process during the chemical reaction due to its
    interaction with the magnetic field during certain transition states and/or radical intermediate
 5  species and induced changes to the overall permittivity of the resultant polymer or other
    chemical species. In the case of the methods for the formation of high permittivity materials,
    this effect has been found to be profound to the overall performance of the energy storage
    device. This type of substance is referred to as having "radical intermediate species" induced
    by a magnetic field, which augments permittivity.          A polymer having a magnetic field
 0  induced radical intermediate specie, exhibits an augmented permittivity.
           The methods described herein provide a unique approach for making high permittivity
    capacitors without having to resort to standard high temperature manufacturing methods that
    almost no organic compound can withstand. This new approach vastly expands the materials
    by which these capacitors can be made, and increases the performance of the capacitors due
 5  to the reduced leakage currents that many organic polymers can display. Additionally, these
    materials may be manufactured in a manner to form large area films with enhanced dielectric
    properties.
           One method for the manufacture of a SHED capacitor according to principles of the
    invention is to use a PET film as a carrier film (such as 0.5 to 6 inches in width), and deposit
 '0 the layers as noted above on a roll to roll machine.          Methods to deposit the dielectric
    materials are known to those versed in the art of film deposition. Typically a 10 micron thick
    coating of the dielectric may be deposited by vapor phase evaporation and the electrodes may
    be 0.5 microns in thickness.      This coated film can be rolled into a cylinder and edge
    connection attached as known to those in this area of production.
25         While an exemplary embodiment of the invention has been described, it should be
    apparent that modifications and variations thereto are possible, all of which fall within the
    true spirit and scope of the invention. With respect to the above description then, it is to be
    realized that the optimum relationships for the components and steps of the invention,
    including variations in order, form, content, function and manner of operation, are deemed
30  readily apparent and obvious to one skilled in the art, and all equivalent relationships to those
    illustrated in the drawings and described in the specification are intended to be encompassed
    by the present invention. The above description and drawings are illustrative of modifications
    that can be made without departing from the present invention, the scope of which is to be
                                                    18
    3422181vl

  limited only by the following claims. Therefore, the foregoing is considered as illustrative
  only of the principles of the invention. Further, since numerous modifications and changes
  will readily occur to those skilled in the art, it is not desired to limit the invention to the exact
  construction and operation shown and described, and accordingly, all suitable modifications
5 and equivalents are intended to fall within the scope of the invention as claimed.
                                                    19
  3422181vl

          1.       A solid state electrical energy state storage device comprising:
          a pair of conductive electrodes, including a first electrode and a second electrode, the first
electrode and second electrode being parallel and spaced apart by an intervening space; and
          a primary dielectric comprised of a primary dielectric material, being disposed between the pair of
conductive electrodes within the intervening space, and having a first surface adjacent to the first
electrode and an opposite second surface adjacent to the second electrode; and
          a secondary dielectric layer comprised of a secondary dielectric material, being disposed
between and in contact with the first surface of the primary dielectric and the first electrode, the
secondary dielectric layer having an augmented permittivity, which is permittivity that is augmented by
exposing the secondary dielectric material, or a precursor thereof, to a magnetic field, an electric field, or
both during formation of the secondary dielectric material before the secondary dielectric material has
fully solidified.
          2.       The solid state electrical energy state storage device according to claim 1, further
comprising:
          a tertiary dielectric layer comprised of a tertiary dielectric material, being disposed between and in
contact with the second surface of the primary dielectric and the second electrode, the tertiary dielectric
layer having an augmented permittivity, which is permittivity that is augmented by exposing the tertiary
dielectric material, or a precursor thereof, to a magnetic field, an electric field, or both during formation of
the tertiary dielectric material before the tertiary
          dielectric material has fully solidified.
          3.       The solid state electrical energy state storage device according to claim 2, wherein the
secondary dielectric material is different from the primary dielectric material.
          4.       The solid state electrical energy state storage device according to claim 3, wherein the
secondary dielectric material is the same as the tertiary dielectric material.
          5.       The solid state electrical energy state storage device according to claim 4, wherein the
primary dielectric layer has a primary thickness, the secondary dielectric layer has a secondary thickness,
and the tertiary dielectric layer has a tertiary thickness, and the secondary thickness being about the
same as the tertiary thickness and being substantially less than the primary thickness.
          6.       The solid state electrical energy state storage device according to claim 5, wherein the
secondary dielectric layer comprises an insulating polymer.
                                                          20

         7.       The solid state electrical energy state storage device according to claim 6, wherein the
insulating polymer comprises a xylene based polymer.
         8.       The solid state electrical energy state storage device according to claim 7, wherein the
xylene based polymer is a puralene polymer.
         9.       The solid state electrical energy state storage device according to claim 6, wherein the
insulating polymer is an organic polymer material capable of having an electric field ordered solid matrix.
         10.      The solid state electrical energy state storage device according to claim 6, wherein the
insulating polymer has a magnetic field induced radical intermediate species.
         11.      The solid state electrical energy state storage device according to claim 9, wherein the
insulating polymer has a magnetic field induced radical intermediate species.
         12.      The solid state electrical energy state storage device according to claim 9, wherein the
insulating polymer has a magnetic field augmented permittivity.
         13.      The solid state electrical energy state storage device according to claim 9, wherein the
insulating polymer has an electric field augmented permittivity.
         14.      The solid state electrical energy state storage device according to claim 10, wherein the
insulating polymer has a magnetic field augmented perm ittivity.
         15.      The solid state electrical energy state storage device according to claim 10, wherein the
insulating polymer has an electric field augmented permittivity.
         16.      A solid state electrical energy state storage device comprising:
         a pair of conductive electrodes, including a first electrode and a second electrode, the first
electrode and second electrode being parallel and spaced apart by an intervening space; and
         a primary dielectric comprised of a primary dielectric material, being disposed between the pair of
conductive electrodes within the intervening space, and having a first surface adjacent to the first
electrode and an opposite second surface adjacent to the second electrode; and
         a secondary dielectric layer comprised of a secondary dielectric material comprising a puralene
polymer, being disposed between and in contactwith the first surface of the primary dielectric and the first
electrode, the secondary dielectric layer having an augmented permittivity, which is permittivity that is
augmented by exposing the secondary dielectric material, or a precursor thereof, to a magnetic field, an
                                                        21

electric field, or both during formation of the secondary dielectric material before the secondary dielectric
material has fully solidified.
                                                      22

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
