   ABSTRACT
            A detachable split solar power optimization junction box module has
   split junction boxes (1A, IB, IC) each having a base part and an upper cover part.
   String ports (11) are provided in a base (10) of the base part for electrically
 5 connecting a string of a photovoltaic module (40). The upper cover part has an
   upper cover (20) with a circuit board (21) provided therein. The circuit board
   (21) has a power optimization module connected with electrical connection
   pieces (22). The electrical connection pieces (22) are detachably inserted into
   the string ports (11) so that the power optimization module performs power
10 optimization on the string of the photovoltaic module. The split junction boxes
   (1A, IB, 1C) are used for power optimization at the string level. The power
   optimization module is integrated in the upper cover part that detachably
   connects with the base part for convenience of installation and maintenance.

              1/8
                  'I
            U
         'I
         'I
                     'I
~:
                     'I
      'I
   'I
                        2

                                              1
     DETACHABLE SPLIT SOLAR POWER OPTIMIZATION JUNCTION
                                      BOX MODULE
   1. Field of the Utility model
            The utility model relates to a solar power optimization junction box and,
 5 in particular, to a split junction box that can perform power optimization at the
   string level and adopts a detachable design to reduce production and installation
   costs and to make maintenance easier.
   2. Description of Related Art
            As global demands for green energy become ardent, solar power
10 technology has made continuous progress and gets more welcomed by all
   countries in the world. For any method of energy generation, increasing the
   production rate has always been the most important issue. In solar power,
   therefore, photovoltaic (PV) modules are also required under many conditions to
   be able to provide a maximum power output. In this case, the power
15 optimization technology for the PV modules has received more attention.
   Moreover, the technology also moves toward smaller power generation units.
   That is, power optimization is no longer for the entire PV module, but more for
   strings of the PV module. Therefore, split power optimization junction boxes are
   proposed to optimize each of the strings on a PV module.
20          Currently, the usual split power optimization junction box contains a
   base, an optimization module and an upper cover. When it is installed in a PV
   module, one first attaches the base to the PV module. Afterwards, the
   optimization module is disposed and soldered onto the base. The base is then
   filled with glue to seal the optimization module therein, thereby achieving water

                                               2
   protection and cooling protection. Finally, the upper cover is mounted onto the
   base to complete the installation.
            As can be seen from the above installation process, it takes some curing
   time after filling the glue. The installation time becomes longer, and the parts
 5 occupy space. When the split power optimization junction box is abnormal or
   out of order and requires maintenance, the glue inside the base must be removed.
   This makes the maintenance difficult.
            It is seen that the existing split power optimization junction box is
   inconvenient in both installation and maintenance. It is therefore imperative to
10 seek a viable solution.
            It is an objective of the utility model to provide a detachable split solar
   power optimization junction box module that integrates a power optimization
   module inside an upper cover of a split junction box. Through the detachable
   electrical connection and engaging structure, the upper cover is combined in a
15 detachable way with the base that is fixed on a PV module. Such a structure is
   convenient for installation and maintenance.
            The detachable split solar power optimization junction box module
   comprises a plurality of split junction boxes. Each of the split junction boxes
   comprises a base part and an upper cover part that is detachably and electrically
20 connected to the base part.
            The base part comprises a base and a plurality of string ports provided
   thereon.
            The upper cover part comprises an upper cover and a circuit board
   mounted in the upper cover. The circuit board is provided with a power

                                             3
   optimization module and a plurality of electrical connection pieces that
   electrically connect to the power optimization module. Each of the electrical
   connection pieces matches and detachably connects a corresponding string port
   on the base.
 5           The base part of each of the split junction boxes is fixed on a distinct PV
   module. Each of the string ports of the base part is electrically connected to a
   corresponding string on the PV module. When the upper cover part of the split
   junction box connects to the base part, each of the electrical connection pieces of
   the upper cover part is inserted into and forms an electrical connection with a
10 respective one of the string ports. As a result, each of the strings on the PV
   module forms electrical connection via the string ports of the base part and the
   electrical connection pieces of the upper cover part. Furthermore, the power
   optimization module in the upper cover part performs power optimization to the
   strings.
15           According to the utility model, the base part of the split junction box is
   fixed to the PV module. The string ports on the base part electrically connect to
   the strings. The upper cover part integrates the power optimization module
   within the upper cover, and forms an electrical connection with the base part in a
   detachable way. To assemble, one simply installs the base part on the PV module,
20 and engages the upper cover part to the base part. This quickly completes the
   installation, without wasting time in waiting for the glue to cure. When any split
   junction box needs repair, one merely takes off the upper cover part of the split
   junction box and replaces it with a new upper cover part. The repair can be done
   immediately. The malfunctioning upper cover parts can be collected and

                                              4
   repaired elsewhere. It is thus seen that the detachable split solar power
   optimization junction box module of the utility model achieves the goals of easy
   installation and on-site maintenance.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 5           FIG. 1 shows a perspective view of a junction box module of the utility
   model;
             FIG. 2 is a planar view of the junction box module of utility model
   installed on a PV module;
             FIG. 3 is an exploded perspective view of a split junction box, showing
10 the relation of the base part and the upper cover part of the split junction box;
             FIG. 4 is a cross-sectional view of the base part of the split junction box
   according to the utility model;
             FIG. 5 is a cross-sectional view of the upper cover part of the split
   junction box according to the utility model;
15           FIG. 6 is an exploded perspective view showing a circuit board and a
   heat sink mounted inside the upper cover part of the utility model;
             FIG. 7 is a cross-sectional view of the split junction box of the utility
   model; and
             FIG. 8 is another cross-sectional view of the split junction box of the
20 utility model.
             As shown in FIG. 1, the disclosed junction box module comprises a
   plurality of split junction boxes IA, 1B, 1C. As shown in FIG. 2, each of the split
   junction boxes 1A, IB, IC is installed on a photovoltaic (PV) module 40, and is
   connected respectively to one of multiple strings PV1, PV2, PV3 on the PV

                                              5
   module 40. The number of the junction boxes of the junction box module
   matches that of the strings on the PV module 40. That is, the split junction boxes
    1A, IB, IC are connected respectively to the strings PV1, PV2, PV3. In this
   embodiment, the PV module 40 has three strings PV 1, PV2, PV3. Therefore, the
 5 junction box module also comprises three split junction boxes 1A, IB, IC.
            The basic structures of the split junction boxes 1A, IB, IC are the same.
   Take one split junction box lB as an example. As shown in FIG. 3, the split
   junction box comprises a base part and an upper cover part detachably mounted
   on the base part. The base part comprises a base 10 having a back part formed
10 with a plurality of through holes 101 for copper belts to go through. An
   electrical connection with a respective one of the strings of the PV module is
   achieved through one of the copper belts.
            A lower wall 102 is formed around a periphery on a back surface of the
   base 10. Multiple string ports 11 are provided inside the lower wall 102.
15 Multiple buckles 103 are provided outside the lower wall 102 on the back part of
   the base 10 for engaging the upper cover part. In this embodiment, each buckle
    103 has an inverted U shape.
            With reference to FIGS. 3 and 4, each of the string ports 11 is formed by
   bending a conductive metal sheet, with one end of the conductive metal sheet
20 forming a U-shaped inserting part 111. The inserting part 111 has two pinnacles,
   one extending toward the interior of the inserting part 111 to form a contact
   spring 112 and the other extending horizontally to form a saddle part 113. The
   saddle part 113 is formed with two fixing holes 114. On the end opposite to the
   inserting part 111, the saddle part 113 is formed with an L-shaped electrical

                                             6
   connection part 115. The electrical connection part 115 corresponds to the
   through holes 101 on the back part of the base 10 in order to be soldered with the
   copper belts inserted through the through holes 101. The inserting part 111 is
   punched to form two protruding pieces 116 respectively on the two opposite
 5 outer sidewalls to enhance the fixing effect.
             To firmly combine the string ports 11, the inner surface on the back part
   of the base 10 is formed with multiple installation platforms 12. Each of the
   installation platforms 12 comprises a concave accommodation chamber 121 and
   a wall part 122 protruding from one edge of the accommodation chamber 121.
10 The accommodation chamber 121 accommodates the inserting part 111 of the
   corresponding string port 11. Two concave grooves 123 are respectively formed
   on the two opposite sidewalls of the accommodation chamber 121 and
   correspond to the protruding pieces 116 on the two opposite outer sidewalls of
   the inserting part 111. The protruding pieces 116 engage the two concave
15 grooves 123 and enhance the fixing effect.
             Two protruding pillars 124 are formed on the wall part 122. The saddle
   part 113 of the string port 11 strides across the wall part 122. The fixing holes
   114 of the saddle part 113 are for the protruding pillars 124 on the wall part 122
   to go through, thereby firmly fixing the string port 11 onto the installation
20 platform 12.
             As shown in FIGS. 3 and 5, the upper cover part has an upper cover 20
   having a top part. An upper wall 202 is formed around the top part. The space
   formed by the top part and the upper wall 202 is provided with a circuit board 21.
   The circuit board 21 is provided with multiple electrical connection pieces 22

                                           7
   and a power optimization module. Each of the electrical connection pieces 22
   matches with one of the string ports 11 on the base 10, forming electrical
   connections by insertion. The top part of the upper cover 20 is provided with
   multiple engaging blocks 203 outside the upper wall 202 of the top part. Each of
 5 the engaging blocks 203 corresponds to one of the buckles 103 on the base 10, so
   that they are connected in a detachable way.
            The power optimization module on the circuit board 21 may generate
   high heat while performing power optimization. To ensure that the operation of
   power optimization module is not affected by the heat, the upper cover 20 in this
10 embodiment further has a heat sink 23. The structures of the circuit board 21 and
   the heat sink 23 can be found in FIG. 6. The heat sink 23 is formed with one or
   multiple protruding parts 231, which contact the primary elements (e.g., MCU)
   of the power optimization module on the circuit board 21 for heat dissipation.
   Moreover, the heat sink 23 is provided with multiple claws 232 to engage with
15 the circuit board 21.
            Multiple notches 212 are formed around the circuit board 21 for the
   claws 232 of the heat sink 23 to catch. The circuit board 21 is formed with
   multiple sets of paired conductive holes 211 so as to electrically connect to the
   pins 220 protruding from the bottom ends of the electrical connection pieces 22.
20 Each of the conductive holes 211 is connected to the power optimization module
   provided on the circuit board 21. When the upper cover part and the base part
   combine and the electrical connection pieces 22 are inserted into the string ports
   11 on the base 10, the power optimization module on the circuit board 21 can
   perform power optimization on the strings connected to the string ports 11.

                                             8
             Please refer to FIGS. 3 and 5 for the structure of the upper cover part. In
   this embodiment, the circuit board 21 and the heat sink 23 are completely
   enclosed and sealed inside the upper cover 20. A feasible sealing method is to
   fill the upper cover 20 with highly thermally conductive glue. Alternatively, one
 5 can also form the upper cover 20 outside the circuit board 21 and the heat sink 23
   by injection molding. The injection molding material is preferably to have a
   high thermal conductivity so that the heat sink 23 has a heat dissipation effect.
   Only the electrical connection pieces 22 are exposed from the sealed circuit
   board 21 for electrical connections with the string ports 11 on the base 10.
10           A waterproof ring 30 is provided around the upper wall 202 of the upper
   cover 20 to enhance the waterproof effect at the junction between the upper
   cover 20 and the base 10.
             As described before, the basic structures of the split junction boxes 1A,
   IB, IC are the same. The only differences are in the number and positions of the
15 string ports 11 and the electrical connection pieces 22. The layout is made
   according to the power output terminals of the strings PV 1, PV2, PV3 of the PV
   module 40. Besides, as shown in FIG. 1, a cable port 104 is formed on the base
   10 of each of the split junction boxes 1A, IC for accommodating a cable 105,
   106. The cables 105, 106 are connected respectively to a string port 11 in the
20 base 10. The junction box module can use the cables 105, 106 to connect to
   other PV modules in series, thereby linking the electrical power loop.
             The above describes the structure of the utility model. The following
   describes how the utility model is used.
             To install the junction box module to the PV module 40, the base 10 of

                                              9
   each of the split junction boxes 1A, IB, 1C is mounted to the PV module 40. The
   copper belts are soldered to the string ports 11 on the base and the strings of the
   PV module 40 to form electrical connections. Afterwards, the electrical
   connection pieces 22 on the upper cover 20 are inserted into the string ports 11
 5 on the base 10. As shown in FIG. 7, when the electrical connection pieces 22 are
   inserted into the inserting parts 111 of the string ports 11, the contact springs 112
   are pushed by the electrical connection pieces 22. The elasticity of the contact
   springs 112 ensures the contact between the electrical connection pieces 22 and
   the contact springs 112 as well as the inserting parts 111, establishing electrical
10 connections.
             With reference to FIG. 8, when the electrical connection pieces 22 of the
   upper cover 20 are inserted into the string ports 11 of the base 10, the engaging
   blocks 203 of the upper cover 20 engage with the buckles 103 on the base 10,
   thereby firmly combining the upper cover 20 and the base 10. Moreover, the
15 waterproof ring 30 between the upper cover 20 and the base 10 provides a good
   waterproof effect.
             With the above-mentioned design, the utility model integrates the power
   optimization module inside the upper cover part and seals it. Therefore, the
   installation does not need to wait until the glue cures. Therefore, the utility
20 model can shorten the installation time and reduces the installation cost.
   Moreover, if some split junction box is abnormal or out of order, one simply
   replaces the upper cover part with a new one. This enables rapid repair and
   reduces the maintenance cost.
             While the utility model has been described by way of example and in

                                           10
  terms of the preferred embodiment, it is to be understood that the utility model is
  not limited to the disclosed embodiments. To the contrary, it is intended to cover
  various modifications and similar arrangements as would be apparent to those
  skilled in the art. Therefore, the scope of the appended claims should be
5 accorded the broadest interpretation so as to encompass all such modifications
  and similar arrangements.

                                            11
   The claims defining the utility model are as followings:
             1. A detachable split solar power optimization junction box module,
   comprising a plurality of split junction boxes with each of which having a base
   part and an upper cover part that connects to the base part in a detachable way to
 5 form an electrical connection, wherein
            the base part has a base with a plurality of string ports provided thereon;
   and
            the upper cover part has an upper cover with a circuit board provided
   therein, the circuit board is provided with a power optimization module and a
10 plurality of electrical connection pieces electrically connected with the power
   optimization module, and each of the electrical connection pieces matches one of
   the string ports on the base for corresponding insertion in a detachable way.
            2. The junction box module of claim 1, wherein
            the base of the base part has a back part formed with a plurality of
15 through holes;
            a lower wall is formed around the back part of the base to accommodate
   the string ports therein;
            a plurality of buckles are provided outside the lower wall of the back
   part of the base;
20          the upper cover of the upper cover part has a top part and an upper wall
   is formed around the top part, with a space formed by the top part and the upper
   wall being provided with the circuit board; and
            a plurality of engaging blocks are provided outside the upper wall of the
   top part of the upper cover, with each of the engaging blocks corresponding to

                                               12
   one of the buckles on the base.
             3. The junction box module of claim 1, wherein
             each of the string ports is formed by bending a conductive metal sheet,
   with one end forming a U-shaped inserting part that has two pinnacles, with one
 5 of the two pinnacles extending toward interior of the inserting part to form a
   contact spring and the other pinnacle extending horizontally to form a saddle part,
   and the saddle part being formed with an electrical connection part on an end
   opposite to the inserting part; and
             a plurality of installation platforms are formed on the base, with each of
10 the installation platforms including a concave accommodation chamber and a
   wall part protruding from one edge of the accommodation chamber, and the
   saddle part strides across the wall part.
            4. The junction box module of claim 3, wherein the wall part of each of
   the installation platforms is formed with two protruding pillars, and the saddle
15 part is formed with two fixing holes for the two protruding pillars of the wall part
   to go through, respectively.
             5. The junction box module of claim 2, wherein the upper cover is
   provided with a heat sink therein; the heat sink is formed with a protruding part
   and a plurality of claws; and
20           a plurality of notches are formed at a periphery of the circuit board for
   the claws of the heat sink to engage;
            wherein the circuit board is formed with a plurality of sets of paired
   conductive holes; each of the conductive holes is connected to the power
   optimization module on the circuit board; and each of the electrical connection

                                           13
  pieces has two pins to be inserted into the conductive holes on the circuit board;
  and
           wherein the number of the split junction boxes is three and two of the
  split junction boxes are formed with a cable port on the base thereof for
5 accommodating a cable, and each of the cables is connected to a string port in the
  associated base.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
