                       ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
             High frequency stimulation for treating sensory and/or motor deficits in
patients with spinal cord injuries and/or peripheral polyneuropathy, and associated
systems and methods. A representative method includes addressing the patient's
somatosensory dysfunction and/or motor dysfunction, resulting from neuropathy
and/or spinal cord injury, by directing an electrical therapy signal to the patient's
spinal cord region, the therapy signal having a frequency in a frequency range from
1.5 kHz to 100 kHz.

                     1/6
                       103
  100             104a             104b
       114      101
              110, ---        -s      108
                 i     "+   -109
                     102iJ       130      P
      116          -14
           112 113                          124
       109
120
                           12812
                 FIG. I

     HIGH FREQUENCY STIMULATION FOR TREATING SENSORY AND/OR
    MOTOR DEFICITS IN PATIENTS WITH SPINAL CORD INJURIES AND/OR
     PERIPHERAL POLYNEUROPATHY, AND ASSOCIATED SYSTEMS AND
                                     METHODS
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[1]           The present application claims priority to the following US Provisional
Patent Applications:     US Provisional Patent Application 62/448,320, filed on
January 19, 2017; and US Provisional Patent Application 62/588,185, filed on
November 17, 2017; both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their
entireties.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[2]           The present disclosure is directed generally to high frequency
electrical stimulation for treating sensory and/or motor deficits in patients with
spinal cord injuries and/or peripheral polyneuropathy, and associated systems and
methods.
BACKGROUND
[3]          An estimated 20 million people in the United States have some form of
peripheral neuropathy, a condition that develops as a result of damage to the
peripheral nervous system ("PNS"). The PNS is a vast communications network
that connects the central nervous system ("CNS") to the limbs and organs,
essentially serving as a communication relay going back and forth between the
brain and spinal cord with the rest of the body. Damage to the PNS interferes with
this communication pathway, and symptoms can range from numbness or tingling,
to pricking sensations or muscle weakness.         Peripheral neuropathy has been
conventionally treated with medication, injection therapy, physical therapy, surgery,
and light.    More recently, diabetic peripheral neuropathy has been treated by
applying a surface electrical stimulation at a specified frequency to the muscles
and nerves.     Most treatments are designed to treat the underlying cause of the
neuropathy, but in many cases, the cause of the neuropathy is unknown or, even if
                                           1

the cause has been identified, a specific treatment may not exist. Accordingly,
there is a need for systems and methods for treating peripheral neuropathy.
 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 [4]          Figure 1 is a partially schematic illustration of an implantable spinal
cord modulation system positioned at the spine to deliver therapeutic signals in
accordance with embodiments of the present technology.
[5]           Figures 2-3 are partially schematic, cross-sectional illustrations of a
patient's spine, illustrating representative locations for implanted lead bodies in
accordance with embodiments of the present technology.
[6]           Figure 4 is a table showing selected clinical data gathered from
Applicant's clinical study showing treatment of sensory deficit with high frequency
spinal cord stimulation, in accordance with embodiments of the present technology.
[7]           Figures 5A-5C illustrate clinical results for patients treated for
peripheral polyneuropathy with high frequency stimulation in accordance with
embodiments of the present technology.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
 1.0    Introduction
 [8]          The present technology is directed generally to systems and methods
for treating peripheral neuropathy, peripheral polyneuropathy (PPN),           painful
diabetic neuropathy (PDN), dysesthesia, sensory deficits, motor deficits, and/or
spinal cord injury using high frequency electrical stimulation.     In particular, the
systems and methods of the present technology may at least partially restore
sensory loss in patients suffering from peripheral neuropathy and/or other
indications.   In one embodiment, the present technology includes improving the
patient's somatosensory function by delivering an electrical signal, having a
frequency of from 1.5 kHz to 100 kHz to the patient's spinal cord via at least one
implantable signal delivery device, and wherein the electrical signal has a
frequency of from 1.5 kHz to 100 kHz.
[9]           Definitions of selected terms     are provided under      heading    1.0
("Definitions"). General aspects of the anatomical and physiological environment in
                                           2

which the disclosed technology operates are described below under heading 2.0
("Introduction"). Representative treatment systems and associated methods, are
described under heading 3.0 ("Representative Treatment Systems and Associated
Methods") with reference to Figures 1-3.      Representative clinical data generated
from the use of Applicant's treatment systems and methods disclosed herein are
described under heading 4.0 ("Representative Clinical Data") with reference to
Figure 4-5C.     The foregoing headings are provided for organizational purposes
only.   Features defined and/or described above under any of the foregoing
headings may be combined with and/or applied to features described under any of
the other headings, in accordance with embodiments of the present technology.
2.0     Definitions
[10]         As used herein, the terms "high frequency" and "HF" refer to a
frequency of from about 1.2 kHz to about 100 kHz, or from about 1.5 kHz to about
100 kHz, or from about 2 kHz to about 50 kHz, or from about 3 kHz to about 20
kHz, or from about 3 kHz to about 15 kHz, or from about 5 kHz to about 15 kHz, or
from about 3 kHz to about 10 kHz, or 1 kHz, 2 kHz, 3 kHz, 4 kHz, 5 kHz, 10 kHz,
15 kHz, 20 kHz, 50 kHz, or 100 kHz, unless otherwise stated. Unless otherwise
stated, the term "about" refers to values within 10% of the stated value. As used
herein, "low frequency" or "LF" refers to a frequency less than 1.2 kHz or less than
1 kHz.
[11]         As used herein, "peripheral neuropathy" refers to damage to or
disease affecting one or more peripheral nerves or groups of peripheral nerves.
Peripheral neuropathy may refer to nerve damage or disease in one nerve or area
of the body (mononeuropathy), multiple nerves or multiple areas of the body
(polyneuropathy), and/or in the same place on both sides of the body (symmetric
neuropathy).        Representative systems     and   methods    in accordance    with
embodiments of the present technology are configured to treat all types of
peripheral neuropathy, irrespective of whether it is inherited or acquired. Inherited
causes include Charcot-Marie Tooth, Kennedy's disease (X-linked bilbospinal
muscular atrophy), Van Allen's Syndrome            (hereditary amyloid neuropathy),
Refsum's disease, Tangier disease, and others.         Causes of acquired peripheral
neuropathy addressed by the systems and methods of the present technology
                                          3

include nerve compression,        entrapment or laceration (e.g., crutches, ulnar
neuropathy,      thoracic  outlet   syndrome,      meralgia   paresthetica,    Morton's
metatarsalgia); metabolic (diabetes mellitus, hypothyroidism) and autoimmune
disorders (lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, Guillain-Barre Syndrome, Miller Fisher
Syndrome);     kidney disease, liver disease, toxin-induced (alcohol,          tobacco,
asbestos, arsenic, lead, mercury); cancer (e.g., malignant lymphoma, lung cancer,
etc.); viral or bacterial infections (HIV, Lyme disease, leprosy, poliomyelitis);
medication-induced (e.g., chemotherapy, etc.); trauma; repetition (carpal tunnel
syndrome, cubital tunnel syndrome); and vitamin deficiency (especially vitamin B).
[12]         As used herein, "treat" or "treatment" with reference to peripheral
neuropathy includes preventing, ameliorating, suppressing, or alleviating one or
more of the symptoms of abnormal sensory responses caused by peripheral
neuropathy.     In some cases, the treatment protocols of the present technology
result in the reactivation of the nerve (e.g., restoring the ability of the nerve to
depolarize and conduct signals).
[13]         As used herein, (the terms "sensory deficit," "sensory loss," "abnormal
sensory response," "abnormal sensory function," etc. refer to all symptoms caused
by disease and/or damage to the peripheral nerves (large and/or small fiber) of the
somatosensory system, such as numbness, decreased responsiveness to light
touch, pain, thermal sensation, and vibratory sensation, impaired joint position
sense,    impaired    balance,  and    decreased     muscle  strength.      The   terms
"somatosensory" refers generally to sensations (such as pressure, pain, or warmth)
that can occur anywhere in the body, as opposed to a particular organ-specific
sense, such as sight or smell. The foregoing terms also include "dysesthesia", an
unpleasant and/or abnormal sense of touch, which in turn can include sensations
of burning, wetness, itching, electric shock, and/or pins and needles, and which
can affect any tissue, including but not limited to the mouth, skin, scalp and/or legs.
When addressing or treating somatosensory dysfunction using high-frequency
therapy signals in accordance with the present technology, the therapy signals may
well have an effect on the patient's perception of pain - but in a different manner
than that associated with existing techniques for treating chronic pain via high
frequency signals. In particular, existing high frequency therapy signal regimens
for addressing chronic pain are generally designed to reduce or eliminate pain
                                           4

(e.g., chronic, neuropathic pain). By contrast, when high frequency therapy signals
are administered in accordance with the present technology to address or treat
somatosensory dysfunction, they may operate to improve, restore or at least partly
restore the patient's ability to detect and/or perceive pain. Now, if the patient also
suffers from chronic pain, the high frequency therapy signal can be administered in
a manner that also addresses (reduces) chronic pain, in addition to addressing
somatosensory deficits.
3.0     Representative Treatment Systems and Associated Methods
[14]          Figure 1 schematically illustrates a representative treatment system
100 for treating peripheral neuropathy and/or other sensory deficits, positioned
relative to the general anatomy of a patient's spinal column S.        The treatment
system 100 can include a signal delivery system 101 having a signal generator 102
(e.g., a pulse generator) and a signal delivery device 103 comprising one or more
signal delivery elements 104 (referred to individually as first and second signal
delivery elements 104a, 104b, respectively).       The signal generator 102 can be
connected directly to the signal delivery element(s) 104, or it can be coupled to the
signal delivery element(s) 104 via a signal link 108 (e.g., an extension). In some
embodiments, the signal generator 102 may be implanted subcutaneously within a
patient P. As shown in Figure 1, the signal delivery element(s) 104 is configured to
be positioned at or proximate to the spinal cord to apply a high frequency electrical
signal to the spinal cord (e.g., to the white matter and/or glial cells of the spinal
cord). Without being bound by theory, it is believed that glial cells are present in
large concentrations within both white and grey matter, and that high frequency
modulation at or proximate to the white and grey matter can affect electrically
deficient glial cells. However, the therapies described herein may provide effective
treatment via other mechanisms of action.
[15]          In representative embodiments, the signal delivery device 103 includes
the first and second signal delivery elements 104a, 104b, each of which comprises
a flexible, isodiametric lead or lead body that carries features or structures, for
delivering an electrical signal to the treatment site after implantation.    As used
herein, the terms "lead" and "lead body" include any of a number of suitable
substrates and/or support members that carry structures,        for providing therapy
                                            5

signals to the patient.    For example, the lead body can include one or more
electrodes or electrical contacts that direct electrical signals into the patient's
tissue, such as to directly affect a cellular membrane. In some embodiments, the
signal delivery device 103 and/or signal delivery elements 104 can include devices
other than a lead body (e.g., a paddle) that also direct electrical signals and/or
other types of signals to the patient.     Additionally, although Figure 1 shows an
embodiment utilizing two signal delivery elements 104, in some embodiments the
signal delivery system 101 and/or signal delivery device 103 can include more or
fewer signal delivery elements (e.g., one signal delivery element, 104 three signal
delivery elements 104, four signal delivery elements 104, etc.), each configured to
apply electrical signals at different locations and/or coordinate signal delivery to
deliver a combined signal to the same (or generally the same) anatomical location.
[16]         As shown in Figure 1, the first signal delivery element 104a can be
implanted on one side of the spinal cord midline M, and the second signal delivery
element 104b can be implanted on the other side of the spinal cord midline M. For
example, the first and second signal delivery elements 104a, 104b shown in Figure
1 may be positioned just off the spinal cord midline M (e.g., about 1 mm offset) in
opposing lateral directions so that the first and second signal delivery elements
104a, 104 are spaced apart from each other by about 2 mm.                    In some
embodiments, the first and second signal delivery elements 104a, 104b may be
implanted at a vertebral level ranging from, for example, about T8 to about T12. In
some embodiments, one or more signal delivery devices can be implanted at other
vertebral levels, depending, for example, on the specific indication for which the
patient is being treated.
[17]          The signal generator 102 can transmit signals (e.g., electrical therapy
signals) to the signal delivery element 104 that up-regulate (e.g., stimulate or
excite) and/or down-regulate (e.g., block or suppress) target nerves (e.g., local
vagal nerves).     As used herein, and unless otherwise noted, to "modulate,"
"stimulate," or provide "modulation" or "stimulation" to the target nerves refers
generally to having either type of the foregoing effects on the target nerves. The
signal generator 102 can include a machine-readable (e.g., computer-readable)
medium containing instructions for generating and transmitting suitable therapy
signals. The signal generator 102 and/or other elements of the treatment system
                                            6

100 can include one or more processors 110, memories 112 and/or input/output
devices 140.    Accordingly, the process of providing electrical signals, detecting
physiological parameters of the patient, adjusting the modulation signal, and/or
executing other associated functions can be performed by computer-executable
instructions contained by computer-readable media located at the signal generator
102 and/or other system components.         The signal generator 102 can include
multiple portions, elements, and/or subsystems (e.g., for directing signals in
accordance with multiple signal delivery parameters) housed in a single housing,
as shown in Figure 1, or in multiple housings.
[18]         The signal delivery system 101 can include one or more sensing
elements 113 for detecting one or more physiological parameters of the patient
before, during, and/or after the application of electrical therapy signals.   In some
embodiments, one or more of the sensing elements 113 can be carried by the
signal generator 102, the signal delivery element 104, and/or other implanted
components of the system 101.       In some embodiments, the sensing element 113
can be an extracorporeal or implantable device separate from the signal generator
102 and/or signal delivery element 104.      Representative sensing elements 113
include one or more of: a subcutaneous sensor, a temperature sensor, an
impedance sensor, a chemical sensor, a biosensor, an electrochemical sensor, a
hemodynamic sensor, an optical sensor and/or other suitable sensing devices.
Physiological parameters      detected by the sensing element(s)         113 include
neurotransmitter concentration, local impedance, current, and/or voltage levels,
and/or any correlates and/or derivatives of the foregoing parameters (e.g., raw data
values, including voltages and/or other directly measured values).
[19]         The signal generator 102 can also receive and respond to one or more
input signals received from one or more sources. The input signals can direct or
influence the manner in which the therapy and/or process instructions are selected,
executed, updated, and/or otherwise performed. The input signals can be received
from one or more sensors (input devices, 140 (e.g., the sensor 113) shown
schematically in Figure 1 for purposes of illustration) that are carried by the signal
generator 102 and/or distributed outside the signal generator 102 (e.g., at other
patient locations) while still communicating with the signal generator 102.       The
sensor 113 and/or other input devices 140 can provide inputs that depend on or
                                          7

reflect patient state (e.g., patient position, patient posture, and/or patient activity
level), and/or inputs that are patient-independent (e.g., time).   Still further details
are included in U.S. Patent No. 8,355,797, which is incorporated herein by
reference.
[20]          In some embodiments, the signal generator 102 can obtain power to
generate the therapy signals from an external power source 114. The external
power source 114 can transmit power to the implanted signal generator 102 using
electromagnetic induction (e.g., RF signals).       For example, the external power
source    114 can include an external coil          116 that communicates with a
corresponding internal coil (not shown) within the implantable signal generator 102.
The external power source 114 can be portable for ease of use.
[21]          In some embodiments, the signal generator 102 can obtain the power
to generate therapy signals from an internal power source, in addition to or in lieu
of the external power source 114.      For example, the implanted signal generator
102 can include a non-rechargeable battery or a rechargeable battery to provide
such power. When the internal power source includes a rechargeable battery, the
external power source 114 can be used to recharge the battery.            The external
power source 114 can in turn be recharged from a suitable power source (e.g.,
conventional wall power).
[22]          During at least some procedures, an external generator 120 (e.g., a
trial stimulator or modulator) can be coupled to the signal delivery element 104
during an initial procedure, prior to implanting the signal generator 102.          For
example, a practitioner (e.g., a physician and/or a company representative) can
use the external generator 120 to provide therapy signals and vary the modulation
parameters provided to the signal delivery elements 104 in real time, and select
optimal or particularly efficacious parameters. These parameters can include the
location from which the electrical signals are emitted, as well as the characteristics
of the electrical signals provided to the signal delivery elements 104.        In some
embodiments, input is collected via the external generator 120 and can be used by
the clinician to help determine what parameters to vary. In a typical process, the
practitioner uses a cable assembly 128 to temporarily connect the external
generator 120 to the signal delivery element 104.       The practitioner can test the
                                            8

efficacy of the signal delivery elements 104 in an initial position. The practitioner
can then disconnect the cable assembly 128 (e.g., at a connector 130), reposition
the signal delivery elements 104, and reapply the electrical signal. This process
can be performed iteratively until the practitioner obtains the desired signal
parameters and/or position for the signal delivery element 104.        Optionally, the
practitioner can move the partially implanted signal delivery element 104 without
disconnecting the cable assembly 128. Furthermore, in some embodiments, the
iterative process of repositioning the signal delivery elements 104 and/or varying
the therapy parameters may not be performed. Instead, the practitioner can place
signal delivery element(s) 104 at an approximate anatomical location, and then
select which electrodes or contacts deliver the therapy signal, as a way of varying
the location to which the therapy signal is directed, without repositioning the signal
delivery element(s).
[23]         After the signal delivery elements 104 are implanted, the patient P can
receive therapy via signals generated by the external generator 120, generally for a
limited period of time. During this time, the patient wears the cable assembly 128
and the external generator outside the body. Assuming the trial therapy is effective
or shows the promise of being effective, the practitioner then replaces the external
generator 120 with the implanted signal generator 102, and programs the signal
generator 102 with therapy programs selected based on the experience gained
during the trial period.    Optionally, the practitioner can also replace the signal
delivery elements 104.      The signal delivery parameters provided by the signal
generator 102 can still be updated after the signal generator 102 is implanted, via a
wireless physician's programmer 124 (e.g., a physician's remote) and/or a wireless
patient programmer 126 (e.g., a patient remote).        Generally, the patient P has
control over fewer parameters than does the practitioner.          For example, the
capability of the patient programmer 126 may be limited to starting and/or stopping
the signal generator 102, and/or adjusting the signal amplitude.          The patient
programmer 126 may be configured to accept pain relief input as well as other
variables, such as medication use.
[24]         The signal generator 102, the lead extension, the external programmer
120 and/or the connector 130 can each include a receiving element 109.
Accordingly, the receiving elements 109 can be implantable elements (implantable
                                           9

within the patient), or the receiving elements 109 can be integral with an external
patient treatment element, device or component (e.g., the external generator 120
and/or the connector 130).      The receiving elements 109 can be configured to
facilitate a simple coupling and decoupling procedure between the signal delivery
elements 104, the lead extension, the signal generator 102, the external generator
 120, and/or the connector 130.       The receiving elements 109 can be at least
generally similar in structure and function to those described in U.S. Patent
Application Publication No. 2011/0071593.
[25]          Figure 2 is a cross-sectional illustration of a spinal cord SC and an
adjacent vertebra VT (based generally on information from Crossman and Neary,
"Neuroanatomy," 1995 (published by Churchill Livingstone)), along with multiple
signal delivery elements 104 (shown as signal delivery elements 104a-104f)
implanted at representative locations. For purposes of illustration, multiple signal
delivery elements 104 are shown in Figure 2 implanted in a single patient.           In
actual use, any given patient will likely receive fewer than all the signal delivery
elements 104 shown in Figure 2.
[26]          As shown in Figure 2, the spinal cord SC is situated within a vertebral
foramen F, between a ventrally located ventral body VB and a dorsally located
transverse process TP and spinous process SP.           Arrows V and D identify the
ventral and dorsal directions, respectively.     The spinal cord SC itself is located
within the dura mater DM, which also surrounds portions of the nerves exiting the
spinal cord SC, including the ventral roots VR, dorsal roots DR and dorsal root
ganglia DRG. The dorsal roots DR enter the spinal cord SC at the dorsal root entry
zone E, and communicate with dorsal horn neurons located at the dorsal horn DH.
              In one embodiment, the first and second signal delivery elements
 104a, 104b are positioned just off the spinal cord midline M (e.g., about 1 mm
offset) in opposing lateral directions so that the two signal delivery elements 104a,
 104b are spaced apart from each other by about 2 mm. In other embodiments, a
lead or pairs of leads can be positioned at other epidural locations, e.g., toward the
outer edge of the dorsal root entry zone E as shown by a third signal delivery
element 104c, or at the dorsal root ganglia DRG, as shown by a fourth signal
delivery element 104d, or approximately at the spinal cord midline M, as shown by
a fifth signal delivery element 104e, or near the ventral roots, as shown by a sixth
                                           10

signal delivery element 104f. In some embodiments, the leads are positioned near
the exit of the ventral roots may be advantageous to modify ventral motor pools
located in the gray matter. For example, modification of these ventral motor pools
may treat spasticity, motor disorders and/or other disorders arising from the ventral
motor pools.
[27]         In some embodiments, it may be advantageous to position one or
more signal delivery elements 104 within the dura mater DM to target neural tissue
and one or more glial cells present in the gray and white matter of the spinal cord
SC.    For example, as shown in the cross-sectional view of a spinal cord SC in
Figure 3, in some embodiments a seventh signal delivery element 104g and an
eighth signal delivery element 104i are positioned along the spinal cord midline M
on the dorsal and ventral sides of the spinal cord SC, respectively.         In some
embodiments, one or more signal delivery elements 104 can be positioned at other
locations.   For example, in some embodiments a ninth signal delivery element
104h and a tenth signal delivery element 104j are positioned off the spinal cord
midline M on opposing lateral sides of the spinal cord SC. High frequency signals
applied to the tenth signal delivery element 104j may be especially effective at
reducing sympathetic outflow.       In some embodiments, high frequency signals
applied to the tenth signal delivery element 104j may treat heart failure,
hypertension, complex regional pain syndrome, peripheral vascular disease, and
other diseases where elevated sympathetic tone is implicated.               In some
embodiments, one or more signal delivery elements 104 may be positioned in other
suitable locations within the subdural space. Additionally, in some embodiments, a
physician may position one or more signal delivery elements in the epidural space
and one or more signal delivery elements in the subdural space. More generally
any one of the foregoing signal delivery elements may be used alone or in
combination with any other signal delivery element(s) 104, depending upon the
patent indication(s).
4.0     Representative Clinical Data
[28]         Figure 4 is a table 400 of selected clinical data gathered during
Applicant's clinical study in which patients were implanted with one or more signal
delivery elements in accordance with the devices, systems, and methods described
                                          11

in under heading 3.0 above.        In particular, patients received electrical therapy
signals at a frequency of 10 kHz, a pulse width of 30 microseconds, and an
amplitude that ranged from about 0.5 mA to about 6 mA.
[29]         Table 400 includes the following acronyms/abbreviations:
             SCI - spinal cord injury
             ITP - Intrathecal pump
             UL - Upper Limb
             R - Right
             SC - Spinal cord
             MA program - Multi-area program
             LBP - Low back pain
[30]         As shown in the first row of the table 400, Patient 1 suffered from
upper and lower back pain caused by a spinal cord injury at the eighth thoracic
vertebrae.    Patient 1 was paraplegic and presented with dystonia, spasms
("dancing legs"), and low back and chest wall pain.        Before treatment, Patient 1
was able to sit comfortably for only 10-15 minutes.        Based on Patient 1's pain
location (lower and upper back), the lead electrodes were placed at or between the
eighth and the eleventh thoracic vertebrae (T8-T11). After treatment, Patient 1's
spasms were gone, and Patient 1 was able to sit for several hours.
[31]         As shown in the second row of table 400, Patient 2 suffered from
thoracic pain caused by a cervical spinal cord injury. Patient 2 presented with a
paralyzed leg, and spasticity.     Before treatment, Patient 2 required a crutch for
walking.   Based on Patient 2's pain location (thoracic), the lead electrodes were
placed at or near the vertical midpoint of the second thoracic vertebrae (T2). After
treatment, Patient 2 had improved movement (i.e., improved "tone", and was able
to walk smoothly), renewed functional capacity in the paralyzed leg, a reduction in
thoracic pain, improvement in spasticity, and was able to transition from seated to
standing positions that caused spasms or tone problems before treatment.
                                           12

[32]         As shown in the third row of table 400, Patient 3 suffered from low
back pain caused by a partial spinal cord injury with significant damage at the ninth
and tenth thoracic vertebra (T9-T10). Patient 3 was paraplegic and also presented
with migraines.    Based on Patient 3's pain indications, the lead electrodes were
placed at the third cervical vertebrae (C3). Patient 3's migraine and low back pain
were successfully treated. After treatment, Patient 3's ability to sense slight itching
was restored, and Patient 3 was able to sense pinpricks in the legs as long as the
high frequency stimulation was being delivered.      Patient 3 was also able to flex
both ankles in dorsi- and plantar-flexion, bend his legs at both knees, stand up and
bear weight with support, and had spontaneous return of erectile function.
[33]         As shown in the fourth row of table 400, Patient 4 presented with foot
pain from small fiber neuropathy (peripheral neuropathy) and could not sense a
pin-prick sensation in that foot.   Patient 4 presented with Babinski reflex, severe
and constant muscle spasms in the back, constant burning sensation at the skin,
and stabbing pain in the low- and mid-back. Based on Patient 4's pain indication,
the lead electrodes were placed to span from the superior aspect of the eighth
thoracic vertebrae (T8) to the superior aspect of the twelfth thoracic vertebrae
(T12). After treatment, Patient 4 experienced restored pin-prick sensations in the
foot, the Babinski reflex disappeared and the patient experienced reduced pain in
the foot.
[34]         As shown in the fifth row of table 400, Patient 5 presented with no pin
prick sensation. After a trial period, Patient 5 had restored pin prick sensation in
the feet. Sensation was maintained at follow-up visits. Ten additional patients (not
represented in table 400) also presented with no pin prick sensation, and also had
their pinprick sensation restored following treatment in accordance with the
foregoing parameters (frequency of 10 kHz, a pulse width of 30 microseconds, and
an amplitude that ranged from about 0.5 mA to about 6 mA). These cases, as well
as others discussed herein, are representative of patients recovering pain-based
sensory responses via a high frequency electrical therapy.
[35]         An additional patient, not represented in table 400, was a paraplegic
SCI patient, with a lesion at T11 and with neuropathic lower back pain. His T10-L2
vertebral bodies were fused as a result of injury. Following several failed (more
                                           13

conservative) therapies, he received a high frequency therapy regimen in
accordance with the foregoing parameters via a single lead positioned epidurally
between the T10-L1 vertebral bodies. In general, leads for high frequency therapy
are placed at T8-T11 for back pain, but in this case, the lead could not be
advanced (in a rostral direction) past mid-T10. The patient had a dural puncture
during the procedure and the resulting headache prevented accurate reporting of
pain scores for the first two days of the trial period. However, by the third day, the
patient reported significant back pain relief. At the end of the seven day trial period,
the patient reported 80% pain relief and was able to voluntarily move his leg for the
first time in 15 years. Sensation to touch and pin prick were restored from the L1
S1 dermatomes. His neurological status improved from spastic paralysis at
baseline to non-spastic weakness. In addition, for the last three days of the trial,
the patient had regained micturition control and had stopped self-catheterizing.
[36]          The electrical therapy treatment methods of the present technology
may be used with other therapies (e.g., conventional therapies) for peripheral
neuropathy treatment. Such therapies include, but not limited to: corticosteroids; IV
immunoglobulins;      plasma    exchange     or plasmapheresis;     immunosuppressive
agents; surgery; mechanical aids; avoiding toxins including alcohol; aldose
reductase inhibitors; fish oil; gamma-linolenic acid; gangliosides; lipoic acid;
myoinositol;    nerve   growth     factor;  protein kinase C     inhibitors;  pyridoxine;
ruboxistaurin mesylate; thiamine; vitamin B12; pain relievers including codeine;
anti-seizure     medications      including    gabapentin,   topiramate,     pregabalin,
carbamazepine, and phenytoin; topical anesthetics such as lidocaine; tricyclic
antidepressant medications such as amitriptyline and nortriptyline; selective
serotonin    and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors such as duloxetine; and
mexiletine. The agents may also include, for example, dopamine uptake inhibitors,
monoamine       oxidase   inhibitors,   norepinephrine   uptake   inhibitors, dopamine
agonists, acetocholinesterase inhibitors, catechol 0-methyltransferase inhibitors,
anticholinergic agents, antioxidants, as well as synaptic and axonal enhancing
medications. Additionally, it has been observed that HF therapy can reduce the
need for supplemental medications. For example, in a randomized controlled trial
of HF therapy for low back and leg pain, concomitant morphine-equivalent
medication use and dosage were significantly reduced. Thus, in the context of the
                                             14

present technology, those agents used as primary, supplemental, or adjuvant
treatments can be reduced, bringing the benefit of both reduced side-effects and
patient compliance burden, when HF therapy is successfully applied.
Further Clinical Results
[37]         The following sections described further clinical results obtained by
treating patients with therapy signals at frequencies in the range of 1.5 kHz to 100
kHz.
        (a)    Peripheral Polyneuropathy
[38]         Figures    5A-5C    illustrate  data  obtained    from   six   peripheral
polyneuropathy patients, all presenting with bilateral lower extremity pain. Each of
the patients was treated with a therapy signal at 10 kHz, applied to the patient at
the T8-T1 1 vertebral level. The signal had a pulse width of 30 microseconds, and
an amplitude that varied from patient to patient. As shown in Figure 5A, three
patients were diagnosed with diabetic peripheral neuropathy, two patients with
idiopathic peripheral neuropathy, and one patient with chronic inflammatory
demyelinating polyneuropathy. Five of the six patients experienced at least a 50%
reduction in pain during an approximately one week trial period, and all were
implanted with a pulse generator and signal delivery device.
[39]         As shown in Figure 5B, four of the five patients who received
medication prior to receiving treatment via the 10 kHz therapy signal had their
medication reduced or eliminated. As is also shown in Figure 5B, several of the
patients also reported an improvement in sensation level relative to baseline.
[40]         Figure 5C illustrates the pain scores of the patients at baseline, at the
end of the temporary trial, and as of a subsequent follow-up (10.7 months, plus or
minus 6 months).      These data indicate that the patients received a significant
reduction in pain, which was sustained over a significant period after the trial
period.
[41]         Anecdotally, an additional diabetic patient (not included in the data
shown in Figures 5A-5C) suffered a significant amount of pain in his lower legs,
which were ulcerated. He was near to receiving an amputation of his leg, prior to
receiving electrical signal therapy at 10 kHz via an implanted stimulation device in
                                            15

accordance with the foregoing parameters.         After stimulation for a period of two
months, the patient's pain was reduced, the patient's wounds were healing, the
color returned to the patient's legs, and the patient was walking, whereas
previously the patient had been in a wheelchair.
        (b)     Post-Stroke Pain
[42]          In still a further example, patients were treated for central post-stroke
pain (CPSP). CPSP refers to chronic neuropathic pain resulting from lesions of the
central somatosensory nervous system, particularly the spinothalamocortical
pathway. The prevalence of CPSP is 1-12% in stroke patients, and symptom onset
usually occurs within six months. Most patients complain of burning, allodynia, and
hyperalgesia.     CPSP is typically pharmacoresistant, and therapeutic options for
refractory cases are limited.
[43]         An 85-year-old male with a prior history of hypertension, pre-diabetes,
and stroke presented for management of right lower extremity (RLE) pain. One
year earlier, he had presented with a new left-sided weakness. Following a stroke
diagnosis, he underwent intensive rehabilitation and had near complete resolution
of left hemibody weakness. However, six months later, he began to experience
new RLE pain.         Workup for re-stroke was negative.       The patient's pain was
constant and burning, with an average intensity of 8 on a numerical rating scale of
0-10 for pain assessment, and associated with allodynia and hyperalgesia.            He
received no benefit from amitriptyline, physical therapy or a right lumbar
sympathetic block.
[44]         The patient received spinal cord stimulation at 10 kHz, with a signal
delivery device spanning the T8-T1 1 vertebral bodies.          The patient received a
successful trial and then underwent permanent implantation. At an 8-week follow
up, he reported greater than 80% pain relief, with an average pain score of 2 and
significant improvement in his quality of life.     Based at least upon this patient's
outcome, it is believed that stimulation in accordance with the foregoing
parameters can prove effective for medically refractory CPSP.
                                            16

         (c)     Foot Drop
[45]           In another example, two patients presented with both chronic low back
pain, and bilateral foot drop following complications from prior spinal surgeries.
Patient 1, a 62-year-old woman, experienced persistent foot drop for 13 years,
ambulating with aides. Electromyogram (EMG) tests revealed mild sensorimotor
axonal polyneuropathy, with demyelinating features. The patient was affected by
chronic neurogenic deficits affecting vertebral levels L4-L5 and S1 bilaterally, with
active denervation affecting the L5 root on the right side. The patient had been
prescribed with analgesics for control of pain at a level of 8 out of 10 on the
numerical rating scale, which induced unpleasant side effects.
[46]           Patient 2 was a 45-year-old male who suffered from acute paraplegia
complications following spinal surgery. His neurological deficit gradually improved,
but his back pain and bilateral lower extremity weakness remained, with this right
side worse, resulting in an ankle-foot orthosis. Arachnoiditis was evident at the L4
L5 level, with significant clumping of the nerve roots at this level.      The patient
received strong analgesics for his back pain, which was at a level of 5-8/10 on the
numerical rating scale.
[47]           After receiving stimulation at 10 kHz during a trial, both patients
proceeded to a permanent implant at a vertebral level of T8-T1 1. By three months
post-implant, both patients no longer required orthotics, and began weaning
opioids. At six months, Patient 1's foot drop had completely resolved, with a return
of sensation and no pain.       At nine months, Patient 1 had weaned off opioids
completely, reporting significant improvements in function without aides, and was
able to drive a car. Patient 2 no longer used opioids at six months post-implant,
and reported almost complete resolution of his foot drop. In addition, Patient 2
reported an average pain score of one on a scale of ten, improved walking, and the
ability to ride a bicycle.
[48]           It is expected that dorsally positioned electrodes can provide the
foregoing motor benefits. For example, dorsal white matter tracts feed into spinal
grey matter circuits to inhibit/facilitate reflex and motor coordination. In pathologic
states, or in the absence of descending control, these circuits may become
dysfunctional, e.g., spastic, tonic, and/ or dis-coordinated.          HF therapy can
                                             17

'normalize' these circuits via grey matter and/or glial effects, to restore patient
function and activities of daily living.
        (d)     Dysesthesia
 [49]         In still further example, several patients suffering from dysesthesia
were treated with spinal cord stimulation at a frequency of 10 kHz, a pulse width of
30 microseconds, and a current amplitude that varied from patient to patient. Prior
to treatment, the patients were diagnosed with peripheral polyneuropathy and/or
painful diabetic neuropathy.      Some patients experienced the inability to feel the
bottoms of their feet, which created balance and gait issues, and some patients
experienced foot numbness and tingling. After 6-7 days of receiving therapy at 10
kHz, the foot numbness and tingling disappeared, and the patients experienced an
improvement in gait.
 [50]         The foregoing gait and sensory improvements can be particularly
significant for patients suffering from diabetes, because when such patients can
walk, they are better able to control their blood sugar. Patients are also better able
to avoid falls and fractures, which are additional issues associated with diabetic
patients.
 [51]         Based on the foregoing, it is expected that stimulation in accordance
with the foregoing parameters can be used to address lower limb pain, foot and
ankle pain, other types of focal, neuropathic pain, and/or dysesthesia.         These
results are expected to be achieved with spinal cord stimulation delivered at 10 kHz
or other high frequency values, to the dorsal column of the patient's spinal cord.
This is contrary to conventional techniques, which may require that stimulation be
applied to the dorsal root ganglion.
 [52]         In addition, based on the foregoing results, stimulation in accordance
with the parameters disclosed herein can produce benefits in addition to, or in lieu
of, pain reduction.      Such benefits involve restoration of sensory and/or motor
functions.
 Further Indications
 [53]         The discussion above describes representative therapies in the
context of treatment for spinal cord injury, peripheral neuropathy and other
                                           18

indications. In some embodiments, the therapy can be administered to patients
with peripheral polyneuropathy indications. More generally, the therapy can be
applied to patients with other indications, other indications that are associated with
sensory loss, and/or motor deficits. As an example, in at least some cases, the
observed sensory improvement is correlated (e.g., other indications directly or
indirectly) with motor improvement. Accordingly, the foregoing techniques can be
used to facilitate sensory and/or motor function recovery. In particular, at least one
patient (Patient 2 described above with reference to Figure 4) experienced a
reduction in spasticity, as well as other motor-related improvements, in addition to
a reduction in pain.
[54]          It is expected that, in at least some embodiments, the foregoing
therapies can be used to address sensory deficit, and/or motor deficit, and/or spinal
cord injury, in combination with treating pain.  In some embodiments, the foregoing
therapies can be used to address sensory deficit, and/or motor deficit, and/or spinal
cord injury, independent of whether or not the therapy is also used to treat pain. In
at least some embodiments, the target location of the therapy signal may be
different, depending on whether the therapy is used to address pain, or one or
more of a sensory deficit, motor deficit, or spinal cord injury. For example, in at
least some cases, it was found that therapy delivered to treat segmental pain also
produced an improvement in sensory response, but at a location rostral or caudal
to the segmental pain indication.
[55]          It is also believed that sensory deficit can be reversed when treating
polyneuropathy, without moving the therapy treatment site, and that foot pain can
be addressed with a more generalized treatment location (e.g., T8-T12), as
opposed to a specific location (such as the DRG at L5 or S1). More generally, it is
believed that the therapy can be applied to the spinal cord instead of the DRG
(which is where at least some conventional low frequency treatments are applied).
Advantages of applying the therapy signal to the spinal cord rather than the DRG
include (a) a lower incidence of adverse events/safety concerns, and/or (b) a
broader electric field spread that may have additional pain and/or other benefits,
whereas DRG stimulation is typically very focal. In addition, implanting the signal
delivery device at the spinal cord may be simpler and easier to "standardize" than
implanting the signal delivery device at the DRG.
                                           19

[56]         Several embodiments of the present technology were described above
in the context of therapy signals applied to the patient's spinal cord region. In other
embodiments, the therapy signal may be applied to other locations, e.g., peripheral
locations.
[57]         Without being bound by theory, it is possible that treating motor and
sensory deficits may result from different mechanisms of action. For example, it
may be that hyperpolarization of the lamina I/Il interneurons explains the resolution
of spastic/dystonic (motor) symptoms (e.g., caused by a barrage of spontaneous
firing), and the therapies described above hyperpolarize those cells resulting a
reduced/normalized neuronal activity level. Because sensory deficit may be due to
lack of input from neurons, the ability to address sensory deficit as well as motor
symptoms via the same therapy signal may be an indication that different
mechanisms of action are responsible for each result. For example, the beneficial
effect on    motor symptoms       may    result from    a   reversal  of inhibition  or
hyperpolarization. Alternatively, the normalization of the sensory input may be the
cause of a reduced motor dysfunction. In other words, the sensorimotor reflex may
be returned to normal when the sensory neuron returns to normal.
Representative Signal Delivery Parameters
[58]         The therapy signals described above may be delivered in accordance
with several suitable signal delivery parameters. For example, the signal frequency
may be from about 1.2 kHz to about 100kHz, or from about 1.5 kHz to about 100
kHz, or from about 2 kHz to about 50 kHz, or from about 3 kHz to about 20 kHz, or
from about 3 kHz to about 15 kHz, or from about 5 kHz to about 15 kHz, or from
about 3 kHz to about 10 kHz, or 1 kHz, 2 kHz, 3 kHz, 4 kHz, 5 kHz, 10 kHz, 15
kHz, 20 kHz, 50 kHz, or 100 kHz.          In particular embodiments, representative
current amplitudes for the therapy signal are from 0.1 mA to 20 mA, or 0.5 mA to
10 mA, or 0.5 mA to 7 mA, or 0.5 mA to 5 mA. Representative pulse widths range
from about 10 to about 333 microseconds, about 10 to about 166 microseconds,
about 25 to about 166 microseconds, about 20 to about 100 microseconds, about
30 to about 100 microseconds, about 30 to about 40 microseconds, about 10 to
about 50 microseconds, about 20 to about 40 microseconds, about 25 to about 35
microseconds, about 30 to about 35 microseconds, and about 30 microseconds.
                                           20

Duty cycles can range from about 10% to about 100%, and in a particular duty
cycle, signals are delivered for 20 seconds and interrupted for 2 minutes (an
approximate 14% duty cycle). In other embodiments, these parameters can have
other suitable values. Other suitable parameters and other therapy features are
disclosed in the following materials, each of which is incorporated by reference:
U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US2009/0204173; U.S. Patent Application
Publication No. US2014/0296936;       and U.S. Patent Application Publication No.
US2010/0274314.
[59]         From the foregoing, it will be appreciated that specific embodiments of
the disclosed technology have been described herein for purposes of illustration,
but that various modifications may be made without deviating from the technology.
 Certain   aspects of the technology described in the context of particular
embodiments may be combined or eliminated in other embodiments.                 Further,
while advantages associated with certain embodiments of the disclosed technology
have been described in the context of those embodiments, other embodiments
may also exhibit such advantages, and not all embodiments need necessarily
exhibit such advantages to fall within the scope of the technology. Accordingly, the
disclosure and associated technology can encompass other embodiments not
expressly shown or described herein.        The following examples provide further
representative embodiments of the presently disclosed technology.
[60]         As used herein, the phrase "and/or," as in "A and/or B" refers to A
alone, B alone, and A and B.         To the extent any materials incorporated by
reference herein conflict with the present disclosure, the present disclosure
controls.
[61]         Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the
context requires     otherwise, the word      "comprise",    and variations such as
"comprises" and "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated
integer or step or group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other
integer or step or group of integers or steps.
[62]         The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not
be taken as, an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms
part of the common general knowledge in Australia.
                                           21

                                         CLAIMS
        1.     A method for treating a patient, comprising:
       addressing      the  patient's   somatosensory    dysfunction   and/or   motor
               dysfunction, resulting from neuropathy and/or spinal cord injury, by
               directing an electrical therapy signal to the patient's spinal cord
               region, the therapy signal having a frequency in a frequency range
               from 1.5 kHz to 100 kHz.
       2.      The    method    of   claim   1 wherein     addressing   the   patient's
somatosensory dysfunction includes at least partially improving the patient's ability
to detect pain.
       3.      The    method    of   claim  2   wherein    addressing   the   patient's
somatosensory dysfunction includes restoring the patient's sensation of pin prick.
       4.      The method of claim 1 wherein the therapy signal is directed to the
patient to reduce or inhibit patient pain in addition to addressing the patient's
somatosensory dysfunction.
       5.      The method of claim 1 wherein the electrical signal is delivered to the
patient to treat peripheral polyneuropathy in the patient.
       6.      The method of claim 1 wherein the electrical signal is delivered to the
patient to treat diabetic neuropathy.
       7.      The method of claim 1 wherein the somatosensory dysfunction
includes dysesthesia.
       8.      The method of claim 1 wherein the somatosensory dysfunction
includes foot numbness.
                                           22

       9.      The method of claim 1 wherein the somatosensory dysfunction
includes an inability on the part of the patient to feel the patient's foot.
        10.    The method of claim 1 wherein addressing motor dysfunction
includes reducing spasticity.
        11.    The method of claim 1 wherein the frequency is 10 kHz.
        12.    The method of claim 1 wherein the therapy signal is directed to the
spinal cord from at least one epidural electrical contact.
        13.    The method of claim 1 wherein the therapy signal is directed from at
least one electrical contact having a thoracic vertebral location.
        14.    The method of claim 1 wherein an amplitude of the therapy signal is
in an amplitude range of 0.5 milliamps to 10 milliamps.
        15.    The method of claim 1 wherein a pulse width of the therapy signal is
in a pulse width range of 10 microseconds to 333 microseconds.
        16.    A method for treating a patient, comprising:
       receiving a diagnosis for the patient corresponding to a somatosensory
               dysfunction, and/or a motor dysfunction, resulting from neuropathy
               and/or spinal cord injury; and
       in response to the diagnosis, directing an electrical therapy signal to the
               patient's spinal cord region to address the patient's somatosensory
               dysfunction and/or motor dysfunction, the therapy signal having a
               frequency in a frequency range from 1.5 kHz to 100 kHz.
        17.    The   method     of claim    16    wherein    addressing      the patient's
somatosensory dysfunction includes at least partially improving the patient's ability
to detect pain.
                                           23

       18.     The    method    of claim    17    wherein    addressing      the patient's
somatosensory dysfunction includes restoring the patient's sensation of pin prick.
       19.     The method of claim 16 wherein the therapy signal is directed to the
patient to reduce or inhibit patient pain in addition to addressing the patient's non
pain somatosensory dysfunction.
       20.     The method of claim 16 wherein the electrical signal is delivered to
the patient to treat peripheral polyneuropathy in the patient.
       21.     The method of claim 16 wherein the electrical signal is delivered to
the patient to treat diabetic neuropathy.
       22.     The method of claim 16 wherein the somatosensory dysfunction
includes dysesthesia.
       23.     The method of claim 16 wherein the somatosensory dysfunction
includes foot numbness.
       24.     The method of claim 16 wherein the somatosensory dysfunction
includes an inability on the part of the patient to feel the patient's foot.
       25.     The method of claim 16 wherein addressing motor dysfunction
includes reducing spasticity.
       26.     The method of claim 16 wherein the frequency is 10 kHz.
       27.     The method of claim 16 wherein the therapy signal is directed to the
spinal cord from at least one epidural electrical contact.
       28.     A method for treating a patient, comprising:
                                           24

       addressing the patient's peripheral neuropathy by directing an electrical
               therapy signal to the patient's spinal cord region, the therapy signal
               having a frequency in a frequency range from 1.5 kHz to 100 kHz.
       29.     The method of claim 28 wherein the peripheral neuropathy includes
peripheral polyneuropathy.
       30.     The method of claim 28 wherein the peripheral neuropathy includes
diabetic neuropathy.
       31.     The method of claim 28 wherein the peripheral neuropathy affects
sensation in the patient's foot, leg, hand, and/or arm.
       32.     The method of claim 28 wherein the therapy signal is directed to the
patient's spinal cord from at least one epidural electrical contact.
       33.     A method for treating a patient, comprising:
       receiving a diagnosis for the patient corresponding to an indication of
               peripheral neuropathy; and
       addressing the patient's peripheral neuropathy by directing an electrical
               therapy signal to the patient's spinal cord region, the therapy signal
               having a frequency in a frequency range from 1.5 kHz to 100 kHz.
       34.     The method of claim 34 wherein the electrical signal is delivered to
the patient to treat peripheral polyneuropathy in the patient.
       35.     The method of claim 34 wherein the electrical signal is delivered to
the patient to treat diabetic neuropathy.
       36.     The method of claim 34 wherein the electrical signal is delivered to
the patient to treat neuropathy in the patient's foot, leg, hand, and/or arm.
       37.     The method of claim 34 wherein the therapy signal is directed to the
patient's   spinal    cord    from   at  least    one    epidural   electrical contact.
                                           25

                                                         1/6
              First Inventor: Jey Subbaroyan                       Attorney Docket No.: 066245-8073.US03
<removed-date>
              Title: HIGH FREQUENCY STIMULATION FOR TREATING SENSORY AND/OR MOTOR DEFICITS IN
                      PATIENTS WITH SPINAL CORD INJURIES AND/OR PERIPHERAL POLYNEUROPATHY, AND
                      ASSOCIATED SYSTEMS AND METHODS
<removed-apn>
                                                           103
                                                                            M
                          100
                                                    104a
                                                                           104b
                                  114              101
                                                 110                   s
                                                                             108
                                                                  109
                                                          102        130           P
                                                         140
                                 116
                                              112 113                                      124
                                  109
                        120
                                                                                         126
                                                                 128
                                                    FIG. 1

                                                         2/6
              First Inventor: Jey Subbaroyan                       Attorney Docket No.: 066245-8073.US03
<removed-date>
              Title: HIGH FREQUENCY STIMULATION FOR TREATING SENSORY AND/OR MOTOR DEFICITS IN
                      PATIENTS WITH SPINAL CORD INJURIES AND/OR PERIPHERAL POLYNEUROPATHY, AND
                      ASSOCIATED SYSTEMS AND METHODS
<removed-apn>
                                                                                 104f
                                                     FIG. 2

                                                         3/6
              First Inventor: Jey Subbaroyan                       Attorney Docket No.: 066245-8073.US03
<removed-date>
              Title: HIGH FREQUENCY STIMULATION FOR TREATING SENSORY AND/OR MOTOR DEFICITS IN
                      PATIENTS WITH SPINAL CORD INJURIES AND/OR PERIPHERAL POLYNEUROPATHY, AND
                      ASSOCIATED SYSTEMS AND METHODS
<removed-apn>                               104g
                        104j                                                         104h
                            104i
                                                     FIG. 3

                                                                                                                                                                 <removed-apn>                                   <removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    400
                                                                                                     Pre-Treatment                                                                     Post-Treatment
                                           Time
                         Diagnoses/                   Location                                             Pain                         Lead      Best
            Demography                    since                    Medical History      Symptoms                         VAS                                       Symptoms                VAS              Comments
                          Etiology                    of Injury                                          Location                      Location Program
                                          Injury
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Perc leads in gutter; 2nd
                                                                                        Paraplegia,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  First Inventor: Jey Subbaroyan                       Attorney Docket No.: 066245-8073.US03
                                                                                                                                                                                                        trial w paddle leads;
                                                                  Wheelchair bound, dystonia,                                                                                          Low back; 3
                                                                                                                     Low back; 8                                                        (perc trial);    Pain relief in upper
                                                                   ITP for spasticity,     spasms                                                  Cascade Spasms stopped;
                          SCI injury-                                                                   Low back, upper back; 9,                                                       Upper           back, leg and right UL
              62, F                        33 years      T8        multilevel thoracic ("dancing                                        T8-T11      on top  Able to sit for                    back,
                                                                                                                                                                                       Upper back,
                         Fell off ski lift                                                              chest wall right UL; 8 and                                                     bilateral      with MA program (Lower
                                                                  laminectomy w/SC legs"), able to                                                   lead   several hours                        leg;
                                                                                                                                                                                       bilateral leg;
                                                                                                                    bilateral leg; 9                                                   zero, R UL; C6: 1-3 and Lower T5:
                                                                      detethering      sit for only 10-                                                                                 O, R UL; 2
Patient 1
                                                                                                                                                                                             2        9-11) w/20s on for each
                                                                                           15 mins
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 area
                                                                                                                                                              Improvement in
                                                                                                                                                            movement ("tone",
                                                                                                                                                              walk smoothly),
                         Cervical SCI
                                                                                                                                                            functional capacity
                         w incomplete                                                  Thoracic pain;
                                                                  Multi-level cervical                                                                       in paralyzed leg,
                         quadriplegia;                                                      uses          Upper
              32, F                                               fusion; Blocks for                                       7            C1-T10      Mid T2 reduction in rib pain;           2
                          dislocated                                                    crutch/cane;      back
                                                                    dislocated ribs                                                                           Improvement in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Title: HIGH FREQUENCY STIMULATION FOR TREATING SENSORY AND/OR MOTOR DEFICITS IN
                          ribs in car                                                    Spasticity
                                                                                                                                                                 spasticity;
Patient 2
                           accident
                                                                                                                                                              Transition from
                                                                                                                                                            seated to standing
                                                                                                                                                               positions that                                                                                                                                                  4/6
                                                                                                                                                              Mild sensation in
                                                                                                                                                            legs (slight itching);
                           Migraine;                                                                                                                                                               HF10 trialed for head
                                                                                                                                                             pin prick sensation
                         Partial SCI w                                                                   Migraine;                                  C3, 1.4                        5 and at last    pain and migraine;
                                                                                                                                                              which went away
                          "significant 8 years                                          Paraplegic       Low back          8                       mA (Duty                          follow-up    Failed other neuromod
                                                                                                                                                             when stim was off;
                          damage at                                                                        pain                                    cycling)                            (Trial)   therapies; Migraine and
                                                                                                                                                            Flex both ankles in
                            T9/10"                                                                                                                                                                  LBP under control
Patient 3
                                                                                                                                                             dorsi-and plantar-
                                                                                                                                                                flexion; stand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PATIENTS WITH SPINAL CORD INJURIES AND/OR PERIPHERAL POLYNEUROPATHY, AND
                                                                                      pain in foot for                                                      Reduced
                                                                                                                                                   Bipole Reduced    painpain   in
                                                                                                                                                                           in foot;
                                                                                        22 years;                                      Top of T8 between could
                                                                                                                                                           foot; could
                                                                                                                                                                 feel pinfeel
                                                                                                                                                                          prickpinat
                         Small fiber                                                                                                                         foot (maintained
                         neuropathy                                                   could not feel       Foot           9.9           to top of contacts prick   at foot;
                                                                                                                                                             through         had
                                                                                                                                                                       6 month             6.9
                                                                                       pin prick at                                       T12      14 and   normal Babinski
                                                                                                                                                            post-implant   visit);
                                                                                         foot; no                                                    15    had normal
                                                                                                                                                                   reflexBabinski
Patient 4
                                                                                                                                                                      reflex
                                                                                         Babinski
                                                                                       No sensation
                                                                                                            n/a                                                 Sensation in feet
                                                                                          in feet
Patient 5
                                                                                                         FIG. 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ASSOCIATED SYSTEMS AND METHODS

                                                                                    5/6
              First Inventor: Jey Subbaroyan                       Attorney Docket No.: 066245-8073.US03
<removed-date>
              Title: HIGH FREQUENCY STIMULATION FOR TREATING SENSORY AND/OR MOTOR DEFICITS IN
                      PATIENTS WITH SPINAL CORD INJURIES AND/OR PERIPHERAL POLYNEUROPATHY, AND
                      ASSOCIATED SYSTEMS AND METHODS
                      Trial Period
                               10
                                                                           System Implanted
<removed-apn>
                                   9
                                   8
                                   7
                NRS (0 - 10)
                                                                       Idiopathic
                                   6
                                   5                               DPN
                                                                                          Idiopathic           DPN
                                   4
                                   3                                                                                 CIPD
                                   2
                                   1                                                                                   DPN
                                   0
                                        0                     5                     10                    15                       20
                                                                            Month Since Implant
                                                                           FIG. 5A
                                                                               Medication Adjustment          Sensation Level
                        Sex                 Age      Patient Diagnosis           During Follow-up            Relative to Baseline
                               M            66            Idiopathic                      reduced                 no change
                               M            63            Idiopathic                      reduced          improved, reported 25%
                               M            34              DPN                           reduced                not reported
                               F            57              DPN               Completely off Medication    improved, reported 60%
                               M            70              DPN               NA (no meds at baseline)             improved
                               F            70              CIPD                      no change*                      NA
                                       * medications were initially reduced, later adjusted up due to new pain in the upper body
                                                                           FIG. 5B

                                                             6/6
              First Inventor: Jey Subbaroyan                       Attorney Docket No.: 066245-8073.US03
<removed-date>
              Title: HIGH FREQUENCY STIMULATION FOR TREATING SENSORY AND/OR MOTOR DEFICITS IN
                      PATIENTS WITH SPINAL CORD INJURIES AND/OR PERIPHERAL POLYNEUROPATHY, AND
                      ASSOCIATED SYSTEMS AND METHODS
<removed-apn>
                                          10
                                           8
                  NRS (0 - 10)  95% Cl
                                           6      7
                                           4
                                           2                       2.8                 3.1
                                           0
                                               Baseline   End of Temporary Trial   Last Follow-up
                                                          FIG. 5C

