                            ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
           Disclosed is a juice extraction module for a juicer, which includes a container 100
   formed with a juice discharge port 101, a sieve 200 positioned inside of the container 100,
 5 a screw 300 positioned inside of the sieve 200 to extract juice from a material, and a lid
   400 coupled to a top end of the container 100 and formed with a input port 410 through
   which the material is input.  The juice extraction module includes a crushing portion 500
   formed on a top end of the screw 300, the crushing portion 500 having a crushing blade
   510 formed thereon; and a crushing processing portion 600 connected to the input port 410
10 and formed in a bottom of the lid 400 for accommodating the crushing portion 500.

                          2/4
FIG 2
       400
                            600
                         620   1
         410
                                     500
                                         300
                   200             .
                   100
                                                 101
FIG. 3
                              -              400
                 410
                       A                             A
        B                                              B
             620
                                --            620

                                                   1
                        JUICE EXTRACTION MODULE FOR JUICER
                                          BACKGROUND
   i.  Cross-reference to other applications
             The disclosure in this specification is related to that in Australian Patent
 5 Application No. <removed-apn>, Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn> (Publication
   No. AU <removed-apn> Al), Australian Patent Application No. 2014268259 (Publication No.
   AU 2014268259 Al), Australian Patent Application No. 2013342295 (Publication No. AU
   2013342295 B2), Australian Innovation Patent Application No. 2014101316 (Publication
   Nos. AU 2014101316 A4 and AU 2014101316 B4), International Patent Application No.
10 PCT/KR2013/009696         (Publication No. WO 2014/073816 Al),           and Korean Patent
   Application Nos. 10-2013-0034337, 10-2013-0034357, 10-2012-0148417 and 10-2012
   01265 16, the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by way of reference.
   1. Field
             The present disclosure relates to a juice extraction module for a juicer.
15 2.   Description of the Related Art
             In general, a juicer includes a main body, and a juice extraction module mounted
   onto the main body.       The juice extraction module includes a container having a juice
   extraction space, a lid having an input port through which a material is input into the
   container, a screw for extracting juice from the material in the container, and a sieve for
20 separating juice and residues from each other.
             The main body includes a driving motor for rotating the screw, and a shaft of the
   driving motor is connected to the screw in the juice extraction module.               In the
   conventional juicer, the material should be chopped into such a size that the screw can
   extract juice.
25           As an example, Korean Patent No. 10-0793852 discloses a juicer configured to
   cut or sever a material by a screw blade protruding from a central axis of a screw toward a
   lateral side of an uppermost end.
             However, in the above technique, when a material has a size larger than the length
   of the screw blade, the material should be chopped in advance into a size smaller than the
30 length of the screw blade.

                                                   2
              In addition, Korean Patent No. 10-0966607 discloses a juicer having a grater
   provided in an entire upper surface over a screw to crush a material just before juice is
    extracted.
              However, there are problems in that the crush using the grater is achieved at a
 5  speed higher than an ordinary low speed of the juicer and also a user should press the
   material against the grater by a large force in order to prevent the rotation of the material
    due to the high speed of the grater.
              Also, since the conventional juicer cuts the material and then mills the cut pieces
    of the material while they are pressed against a sieve in a juice extraction process, the sieve
10 may be deformed in a moment by the pressed cut pieces.
              Such deformation destroys a molding for holding a shape of the sieve or decreases
   the bond between the molding and the sieve to generate a gap between the molding and the
    sieve causing a leakage of residues and a decrease in juice extraction efficiency.
              Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like which
15 has been included in the present specification is not to be taken as an admission that any or
    all of these matters form part of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in
   the field relevant to the present disclosure as it existed before the priority date of each
    claim of this application.
              Throughout this specification the word "comprise", or variations such as
20  "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated element,
    integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps, but not the exclusion of any other
    element, integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps.
              It would be advantageous to provide a juice extraction module for a juicer that
   reduces or eliminates the inconvenience of requiring that material for juicing be chopped
25  or cut before being input into the juice extraction module.
                                             SUMMARY
              Disclosed herein is a juice extraction module for a juicer comprising a container
    (100) provided with a juice extraction space defined therein, a screw (300) for extracting
   juice from material in the container (100), and a lid (400) coupleable with the container,

                                                  3
   the lid being provided with an input port (410) through which the material is input,
             wherein in an upper portion of the screw (300), a crushing portion (500) is formed
   and has a crushing blade (510) formed thereon,
             wherein on an inner surface of the lid (400), a crushing processing portion (600) is
 5 formed to protrude upward and accommodate the crushing portion (500) therein,
             wherein the crushing portion (500) extends to pass over a top end of the sieve
   (200) and is positioned to be accommodated in the crushing processing portion (600),
             wherein the crushing processing portion (600) is connected with the input port
   (410), and
10           wherein the crushing portion (500) and the crushing processing portion (600)
   cooperate with each other to crush the material input through the input port.
             A top apex of the crushing processing portion (600) may be formed with a shaft
   hole into which a central shaft (310) of the screw (300) is rotatably fittable.
             A region of the input port (410) may partially overlap with a top end region of the
15 sieve (200) and be out of the top end region of the sieve (200).
             An inner surface of the crushing processing portion (600) may be provided with a
   material guide surface (620) which smoothly connects the sieve (200) and the input port
   (410), the material guide surface extending to the outside of the top end region of the sieve
   (200).
20           The crushing processing portion (600) may cover an entire bottom region of the
   input port (410) at a height at which the crushing processing portion (600) is connected to a
   bottom end of the input port (410).
             The crushing portion (500) may have one or more auxiliary crushing blades

                                                  4
   formed thereon, wherein the auxiliary crushing blade(s) assist the crushing blade (510) to
   crush the material more effectively.
            The material guide surface (620) may continue from the input port (410) while
   overlapping with the input port (410) and be formed to be inclined toward a central axis of
 5 the crushing portion (500).
            One or more milling blades (630) may be formed on an inner surface of the
   crushing processing portion (600).
            The screw (300), including the crushing portion (500), may be formed in unitary
   one-piece construction.
10          Also disclosed herein is a juice extraction module for a juicer, the juice extraction
   module including:
            a container comprising a juice discharge port;
            a sieve positioned inside of the container;
            a screw to extract juice from a material, the screw being rotatable about a
15 rotational axis and having top and bottom portions vertically arranged along the rotational
   axis, the bottom portion of the screw being accommodated within the sieve and the top
   portion of the screw extending out of the sieve;
            a lid coupled to a top end of the container, the lid having:
                      a top portion that includes an input port through which said material is
20          input into the juice extraction module, and
                      a bottom portion that receives said material from the input port,
                      wherein the top portion of the screw has a spiral blade formed thereon,
            extends above a top end of the sieve and narrows toward a top end of the screw,
            wherein the bottom portion of the lid includes a screw accommodating portion
25 configured to accommodate the top portion of the screw,
            wherein a first material processing zone in which said material is subjected to
   crushing, in use, is defined between the top portion of the screw and an interior surface of

                                                   5
   the lid above the top end of the sieve,
             wherein a second material processing zone in which said material is subjected to
   juicing, in use, is defined between the bottom portion of the screw and the sieve, and
             wherein the input port is proportioned to accommodate material of up to a first
 5  diameter in size, the first diameter being greater than the shortest distance between the
   rotational axis of the screw and an inner circumferential surface of the top end of the sieve.
             Also disclosed herein is a juice extraction module for a juicer, which includes a
    container formed with a juice discharge port, a sieve positioned inside of the container, a
    screw positioned inside of the sieve to rotate about a rotational axis and extract juice from
10  a material, and a lid coupled to a top end of the container and formed with a input port
   through which the material is input, the juice extraction module comprising:
             a top portion of the screw defining a crushing portion, the crushing portion
    comprising a crushing blade formed thereon; and
             a crushing processing portion connected to the input port and defined in a bottom
15 portion of the lid, the crushing processing portion accommodating the crushing portion of
   the screw, an inner surface of the crushing processing portion including a crushing
   processing surface and a material guide surface,
             wherein the input port comprises an opening formed in a top portion of the lid,
    and
20           wherein the material guide surface continues from the input port and is inclined
   toward the rotational axis, whereby the material guide surface guides the material so that
   the material begins to be crushed by the crushing blade, and wherein the crushing blade
    crushes the material within the crushing processing portion formed in the bottom of the lid,
    in advance of the material reaching the sieve.
25           Also disclosed herein is a juice extraction module for a juicer, comprising:
             a container comprising a juice discharge port;
             a sieve positioned inside of the container;
             a screw positioned inside of the sieve to rotate about a rotational axis and extract
   juice from a material, a top portion of the screw defining a crushing portion which includes
30  a crushing blade formed thereon; and

                                                   6
             a lid coupled to a top end of the container and comprising an input port through
   which the material is input, a bottom portion of the lid comprising a crushing processing
   portion connected to the input port, the crushing processing portion accommodating the
   crushing portion of the screw and having an inner surface that includes a crushing
 5 processing surface,
             wherein the input port comprises an opening formed in the lid, and
             wherein the crushing blade crushes the material within the crushing processing
   portion formed in the bottom of the lid, in advance of the material reaching the sieve.
             Also disclosed herein is a juice extraction module for a juicer, the juice extraction
10 module including:
             a container comprising a juice discharge port;
             a sieve positioned inside of the container;
             a screw to extract juice from a material, the screw being rotatable about a
   rotational axis and having top and bottom portions spaced apart along the rotational axis,
15 the bottom portion of the screw being accommodated within the sieve and the top portion
   of the screw extending out of the sieve;
             a lid coupled to a top end of the container, the lid having:
                       a top portion that includes an input port through which said material is
             input into the juice extraction module, the input port having an upper input end
20           distal from the sieve and a lower, discharge end proximal to the sieve, the lower
             end of the input port being offset from the top portion of the screw in a direction
             perpendicular to the rotational axis, and
                       a bottom portion that receives said material from the input port,
             wherein the top portion of the screw has a spiral blade formed thereon and
25 narrows toward a top end of the screw,
             wherein the lid comprises a material guide surface that is inclined toward the
   rotational axis to guide said material from the input port toward the top portion of the
   screw,
             wherein the bottom portion of the lid includes a screw accommodating portion
30 configured to accommodate the top portion of the screw,

                                                    7
              wherein a first material processing zone in which said material is subjected to
    crushing, in use, is defined between the top portion of the screw and an interior surface of
   the lid above a top end of the sieve,
              wherein a second material processing zone in which said material is subjected to
 5 juicing, in use, is defined between the bottom portion of the screw and the sieve, and
              wherein the input port is proportioned to accommodate material of up to a first
    diameter in size, the first diameter being greater than the shortest distance between the
   rotational axis of the screw and an inner circumferential surface of a top end of the sieve.
              Also disclosed herein is a juice extraction module for a juicer, which includes a
10  container formed with a juice discharge port, a sieve positioned inside of the container, a
    screw positioned inside of the sieve to rotate about a rotational axis and extract juice from
    a material, and a lid coupled to a top end of the container and formed with a input port
   through which the material is input, the juice extraction module comprising:
              a top portion of the screw defining a crushing portion that narrows toward a top
15  end of the screw, the crushing portion comprising a crushing blade; and
              a crushing processing portion connected to the input port and defined in a bottom
   portion of the lid, the crushing processing portion defining a recess for accommodating the
    crushing portion of the screw, an inner surface of the crushing processing portion including
    a crushing processing surface and a material guide surface,
20            wherein a distance between the crushing processing surface and the crushing
   blade of the screw reduces in a rotational direction in which the crushing blade rotates
    about the rotational axis during operation such that a first distance between the crushing
   processing surface and an outer edge of the crushing blade at a first location rotationally
    adjacent the input port is greater than a second distance between the crushing processing
25  surface and the outer edge of the crushing blade at a second location rotationally adjacent
   the first location and such that the second distance between the crushing processing surface
    and the outer edge of the crushing blade at the second location is greater than a third
    distance between the crushing processing surface and the outer edge of the crushing blade
    at a third location rotationally adjacent the second location,
30            wherein the material guide surface continues from the input port and is inclined

                                                   8
   toward the rotational axis, whereby the material guide surface guides the material so that a
   lateral side of the material begins to be crushed by the crushing blade, and wherein the
   crushing blade crushes the material within the crushing processing portion formed in the
   bottom of the lid, in advance of the material reaching the sieve.
 5           Also disclosed herein is a juice extraction module for a juicer, comprising:
             a container comprising a residue discharge port and a juice discharge port;
             a sieve positioned inside of the container;
             a screw positioned inside of the sieve to extract juice from a material, and
             a lid coupled to a top end of the container and having an input port through which
10 the material is input,
             wherein a top portion of the screw defines a crushing portion that narrows toward
   a top end of the screw, the crushing portion having a crushing blade,
             wherein the lid comprises a crushing processing portion that is connected to the
   input port and accommodates the crushing portion,
15           wherein the input port is offset outwards from a rotational axis of the screw and
   has a width larger than the shortest distance from the rotational axis of the screw to an
   inner circumferential surface of a top end of the sieve,
             wherein a portion of the crushing processing portion comprises a material guide
   surface for assisting guidance of the material from the input port to the sieve
20           wherein an inner surface of the crushing processing portion comprises a crushing
   processing surface, and wherein a distance between the crushing processing surface and
   the crushing blade of the screw reduces in a rotational direction in which the crushing
   blade rotates about the rotational axis during operation such that a first distance between
   the crushing processing surface and an outer edge of the crushing blade at a first location
25 rotationally adjacent the input port is greater than a second distance between the crushing
   processing surface and the outer edge of the crushing blade at a second location
   rotationally adjacent the first location and such that the second distance between the
   crushing processing surface and the outer edge of the crushing blade at the second location
   is greater than a third distance between the crushing processing surface and the outer edge
30 of the crushing blade at a third location rotationally adjacent the second location, and

                                                    9
              wherein the material guide surface continues from the input port and is inclined
   toward the rotational axis of the screw, whereby the material guide surface guides the
   material so that a lateral side of the material begins to be crushed by the crushing blade.
              Also disclosed herein is a juice extraction module for a juicer, comprising:
 5            a container comprising a juice discharge port;
              a sieve positioned inside of the container;
              a screw positioned inside of the sieve to rotate about a rotational axis and extract
   juice from a material, a top portion of the screw defining a crushing portion which includes
    a crushing blade; and
10            a lid coupled to a top end of the container and comprising an input port through
   which the material is input, a bottom portion of the lid comprising a crushing processing
   portion connected to the input port, the crushing processing portion comprising a recess to
    accommodate the crushing portion of the screw and having an inner surface that includes a
    crushing processing surface,
15            wherein a distance between the crushing processing surface and the crushing
   blade of the screw reduces in a rotational direction in which the crushing blade rotates
    about the rotational axis during operation such that a first distance between the crushing
   processing surface and an outer edge of the crushing blade at a first location rotationally
    adjacent the input port is greater than a second distance between the crushing processing
20  surface and the outer edge of the crushing blade at a second location rotationally adjacent
   the first location and such that the second distance between the crushing processing surface
    and the outer edge of the crushing blade at the second location is greater than a third
    distance between the crushing processing surface and the outer diameter of the crushing
   blade at a third location rotationally adjacent the second location.
25            Also disclosed herein is a juice extraction module for a juicer, which includes a
    container comprising a juice discharge port, a sieve positioned inside of the container, a
    screw positioned inside of the sieve to extract juice from a material, and a lid coupled to a
   top end of the container, the lid comprising an input port through which the material is
    input, the juice extraction module comprising:
30            a crushing portion defined by a top portion of the screw, the crushing portion

                                                 10
   narrowing toward a top end of the screw and comprising a crushing blade; and
            a crushing processing portion defined in a bottom portion of the lid, the crushing
   processing portion being connected to the input port and comprising a recess for
   accommodating the crushing portion,
 5          wherein an inner surface of the crushing processing portion comprises a crushing
   processing surface, a distance between the crushing processing surface and the crushing
   blade reducing in a direction in which the crushing blade runs from the input port,
            wherein the crushing blade crushes the material within the crushing processing
   portion in advance of the material reaching the sieve,
10          wherein a portion of the inner surface of the crushing processing portion
   comprises a material guide surface that continues from the input port and is inclined
   toward a central axis of the crushing portion, whereby the material guide surface guides the
   material so that a lateral side of the material begins to be crushed between the crushing
   blade and the inner surface of the crushing processing portion,
15          wherein a first lateral side of the material input through the input port is engaged
   by the crushing blade while an opposite lateral side of the material is pushed outwards to
   bear against the inner surface of the crushing processing portion, whereby the material is
   crushed between the crushing blade and the inner surface of the crushing processing
   portion.
20          Also disclosed herein is a juice extraction module for a juicer, which includes a
   container 100 formed with a juice discharge port 101, a sieve 200 positioned inside of the
   container 100, a screw 300 positioned inside of the sieve 200 to extract juice from a
   material, and a lid 400 coupled to a top end of the container 100 and formed with a input
   port 410 through which the material is input.
25          The juice extraction module includes a crushing portion 500 formed on a top end
   of the screw 300 to be narrowed upward, the crushing portion 500 having a crushing blade
   510 formed thereon; and a crushing processing portion 600 connected to the input port 410
   and formed in a bottom of the lid 400 to be concave for accommodating the crushing
   portion 500, wherein the crushing blade 510 crushes the material in advance within the
30 crushing processing portion 600.

                                                 11
             According to one embodiment, the crushing blade 510 is formed so that the
   material input through the input port 410 is crushed while a lateral side of the material is
   pushed outwards, and the crushing processing portion 600 is provided with an inner
   surface to hold the material pushed outwards by the crushing blade 510, whereby the
 5 material can be crushed between the crushing blade 510 and the inner surface of the
   crushing processing portion 600.
             According to one embodiment, the crushing processing portion 600 is formed to
   cover an entire bottom region of the input port 410 at the height of the crushing processing
   portion 600 connected to a bottom end of the input port 410.
10           According to one embodiment, a bottom region of the input port 410 is positioned
   to be offset within a semicircle region of a circle having a diameter corresponding to a
   diameter of the crushing processing portion 600 with a central shaft 310 of the screw 300
   as a center.
             According to one embodiment, the inner surface of the crushing processing
15 portion 600 comprises a crushing processing surface 610 formed to be increasingly close to
   the crushing blade 510 in a direction in which the crushing blade 510 runs from the input
   port 410.
             According to one embodiment, the inner surface of the crushing processing
   portion 600 comprises a material guide surface 620 continuing from the input port 410 and
20 formed to be inclined toward a central axis of the crushing portion 500, whereby the
   material guide surface 620 guides the material so that a lateral side of the material begins
   to be crushed by the crushing blade 510.
             According to one embodiment, a bottom end of the material guide surface 620
   may conform to an inner surface of the sieve 200.
25           According to one embodiment, the crushing portion 500 passes over a top end of
   the sieve 200 and is accommodated in the crushing processing portion 600, and the
   crushing blade 510 cooperates with the crushing processing portion 600 to crush the
   material.
             Also disclosed herein is a juice extraction module for a juicer, which includes a
30 container 100 formed with a residue discharge port 102 and a juice discharge port 101; a

                                                 12
   sieve 200 positioned inside of the container 100; a screw 300 positioned inside of the sieve
   200 to extract juice from a material, and a lid 400 coupled to a top end of the container 100
   and formed with a input port 410 through which the material is input, wherein a crushing
   portion 500 is formed on a top end of the screw 300 to be narrowed upward, the crushing
 5 portion 500 having a crushing blade 510 formed thereon, wherein the lid 400 is formed
   with a crushing processing portion 600, the crushing processing portion 600 being
   connected to the input port 410 and accommodating the crushing portion 500, wherein the
   input port 410 is disposed to be offset outwards from a central axis of the screw 300 and
   has a width larger than the shortest distance from the central axis of the screw 300 to an
10 inner circumferential surface of a top end of the sieve 200, wherein the crushing processing
   portion 600 is formed with a material guide surface for assisting guidance of the material
   from the input port 410 to the sieve 200.
             The crushing blade 510 and the crushing processing portion 600 are formed so
   that a distance between the crushing blade 510 and an inner surface of the crushing
15 processing portion 600 is gradually reduced by the rotation of the crushing blade 510
             The crushing processing portion 600 comprises a crushing processing surface 610,
   the crushing processing surface 610 is formed with at least one milling blade 630.
             Also disclosed herein is a juice extraction module for a juicer, which includes a
   container 100 formed with a juice discharge port 101, a sieve 200 positioned inside of the
20 container 100, a screw 300 positioned inside of the sieve 200 to extract juice from a
   material, and a lid 400 coupled to a top end of the container 100 and formed with a input
   port 410 through which the material is input, the juice extraction module comprising: a
   crushing portion 500 formed on a top end of the screw 300 to be narrowed upward, the
   crushing portion 500 having a crushing blade 510 formed thereon; and a crushing
25 processing portion 600 connected to the input port 410 and formed in a bottom of the lid
   400 to be concave for accommodating the crushing portion 500, wherein an inner surface
   of the crushing processing portion 600 includes a crushing processing surface 610 formed
   to be increasingly close to the crushing blade 510 in a direction in which the crushing blade
   510 runs from the input port 410, and the crushing blade 510 crushes the material in
30 advance within the crushing processing portion 600.

                                                  13
              Also disclosed herein is a juice extraction module for a juicer, which includes a
    container 100 formed with a juice discharge port 101, a sieve 200 positioned inside of the
    container 100, a screw 300 positioned inside of the sieve 200 to extract juice from a
   material, and a lid 400 coupled to a top end of the container 100 and formed with a input
 5 port 410 through which the material is input, the juice extraction module including: a
    crushing portion 500 formed on a top end of the screw 300 to be narrowed upward, the
    crushing portion 500 having a crushing blade 510 formed thereon; and a crushing
   processing portion 600 connected to the input port 410 and formed in a bottom of the lid
   400 to be concave for accommodating the crushing portion 500, wherein an inner surface
10  of the crushing processing portion 600 comprises a material guide surface 620 continuing
    from the input port 410 and formed to be inclined toward a central axis of the crushing
   portion 500, whereby the material guide surface 620 guides the material so that a lateral
    side of the material begins to be crushed by the crushing blade 510, and the crushing blade
    510 crushes the material in advance within the crushing processing portion 600.
15            A conventional juicer has inconvenience and difficulty in that an increase in
    length of a screw blade increases an entire outer diameter of a screw, and thus, a sieve, a
    container and a lid should be manufactured large so as to be fitted to the screw. However,
    according to the present disclosure, a material having a diameter larger than a length of a
    screw blade can be used, and the material can be crushed into a size suitable for extracting
20 juice without increasing an outer diameter of a screw by a crushing processing portion
    formed to be concave in a bottom of a lid and a crushing portion accommodated in the
    crushing processing portion and cooperating with the crushing processing portion.
              An embodiment of the present invention may reduce or eliminate the
    inconvenience and cumbersomeness that a user should chop a material before the material
25  is input.
              In addition, in an embodiment disclosed herein, a space between the crushing
   blade and the crushing processing portion may be gradually narrowed and the material may
   be caught and simultaneously dragged into between the crushing blade and the crushing
   processing portion, so that the material is effectively crushed while being automatically
30  supplied to the screw without inconveniently pushing the material.

                                                    14
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
             Fig. 1 is a perspective view showing a juice extraction module for a juicer
   embodying principles disclosed herein;
             Fig. 2 is a sectional view of the juice extraction module of Fig. 1;
 5           Fig. 3 is a plan view showing a lid of the juice extraction module shown in Fig. 1;
             Fig. 4 is a sectional view of the lid taken along line A-A of Fig. 3;
             Fig. 5 is a sectional view of the lid taken along line B-B of Fig. 3; and
             Fig. 6 is a front view showing a screw having a crushing portion provided on a top
   end thereof as a portion of the juice extraction module shown in Fig. 1.
10                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF AN EMBODIMENT
             Hereinafter, embodiments of the presently disclosed principles will be described
   in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings.
             The following embodiments are provided only for illustrative purposes so that
   those skilled in the art can fully understand the principles disclosed herein.
15           The present invention is not limited to the following embodiments but may be
   implemented in other forms.
             In the drawings, the widths, lengths, thicknesses and the like of elements may be
   exaggerated for convenience of illustration.
             Fig. 1 is a perspective view showing a juice extraction module for a juicer
20 according to one embodiment of principles disclosed herein; Fig. 2 is a sectional view of
   the juice extraction module of Fig. 1; Fig. 3 is a plan view showing a lid of the juice
   extraction module shown in Fig. 1; Fig. 4 is a sectional view of the lid taken along line A
   A of Fig. 3; Fig. 5 is a sectional view of the lid taken along line B-B of Fig. 3; and Fig. 6 is
   a front view showing a screw having a crushing portion provided on a top end thereof as a
25 portion of the juice extraction module shown in Fig. 1.
             Referring to Figs. 1 to 6, a juice extraction module for a juicer according to one
   embodiment of principles disclosed herein includes a container 100 having a juice
   extraction space defined therein and having a juice discharge port 101 and a residue
   discharge port 102 respectively formed in one and another sides of an outer surface thereof,
30 a sieve 200 installed inside of the container 100 to separate juice from material residues

                                                 15
   generated in juice extraction, a screw 300 installed inside of the sieve 200 to extract juice
   from the material, and a lid 400 installed to a top end of the container 100 and formed with
   an input port 410, through which a material is input.
            Although not shown, an opening/closing means for selectively opening and
 5 closing the juice discharge port 101 of the container 100 may be applied to the juice
   extraction module.
            As the opening/closing means, a cock valve may be used.               The cock valve
   includes a valve body moving forward or backward in the juice discharge port 101,
   wherein a leading end of the valve body may be oriented toward the juice discharge port
10  101.
            In addition, the cock valve may include a juice discharge cock, which may be
   selectively connected to the juice discharge port 101 by the valve body.
            As a means for opening and closing the juice discharge port 101, a variety of
   means may be employed in addition to the above structure.
15          The top end of the screw 300 defines a crushing portion 500 having a shape that
   narrows upwardly.
            The crushing portion 500 has a crushing blade 510 formed thereon, wherein the
   crushing blade 510 extends in the shape of a spiral having a width that gradually narrows
   upward, toward a top apex of the crushing portion 500.
20          A central shaft 310 of the screw 300 may extend from the top apex of the crushing
   portion 500.
            The lid 400 has a crushing processing portion 600 formed in a bottom thereof
   defining a concave extending upward from a face coupled with the container 100 in order
   to accommodate the crushing portion 500.
25          The crushing processing portion 600 has a shape that gradually narrows toward a
   top apex corresponding to the crushing portion 500.
            In addition, the top apex of the crushing processing portion 600 is formed with a
   shaft hole, into which the central shaft 310 of the screw 300 is rotatably fitted.
            While being connected with the input port 410, the crushing processing portion
30 600 cooperates with the crushing portion 500 to serve to crush the material input through

                                                 16
   the input port 410.
            The crushing blade 510 is inserted and positioned in the crushing processing
   portion 600, and the crushing blade 510 cooperates with the shape of an inner surface of
   the crushing processing portion 600 to crush the material.
 5          The input port 410 is offset toward one side with respect to a central axis of the
   screw 300 and simultaneously should have such a large bottom width W (or inner
   diameter) that a large-sized material such as an apple is allowed to be input without being
   pre-chopped.
            The sieve 200 has the largest inner diameter at the top end thereof, and thus, a
10 distance from the central axis of the screw 300 to the sieve 200 is set up to be largest at the
   top end of the sieve 200.
            The bottom width of the input port 410 is set up to be larger than the shortest
   distance from the central axis of the screw 300 to an inner circumferential surface of the
   top end of the sieve 200.
15          Accordingly, as viewed from the top, a region of the input port 410 partially
   overlaps with a top end region of the sieve 200 and is out of the top end region of the sieve
   200.
            In contrast, a conventional juicer has a small-sized input port so as to be generally
   positioned inside of a region of a sieve.
20          Also, the crushing processing portion 600 is formed to cover the entire bottom
   region of the input port 410 at the height of the crushing processing portion 600 connected
   to the bottom end of the input port 410.
            Further, the input port 410 is within a circle region having a diameter
   corresponding to the diameter of the crushing processing portion 600 with the central shaft
25 310 of the screw 300 as the center, and more preferably, is positioned to be offset within
   one side of semicircle regions into which the circle region is divided by a line passing
   through the central shaft 310.
            In addition, the inner surface of the crushing processing portion 600, particularly
   an inner crushing processing surface 610 is formed to be increasingly close to the crushing
30 blade 510 of the crushing portion 500 in a direction in which the crushing blade 510 runs

                                                  17
   from the bottom end of the input port 410.
             Accordingly, when the material is expelled out by the crushing blade 510, the
   material is held by the inner surface of the crushing processing portion 600, so that a lateral
   side of the material is crushed by the crushing blade 510, and the material is dragged into
 5 the crushing processing portion according to the rotation of the crushing portion.
             This facilitates automatically crushing the material even if a user inputs the
   material and then does not push the material again.
             The crushing portion 500 further has one or more auxiliary crushing blades
   formed thereon, which assist the crushing blade 510 to crush the material more effectively.
10           In such a case, the crushing blade 510 first crushes the material, and the auxiliary
   crushing blades may crush the material more finely.
             Also, as the material is dragged into the crushing processing portion, a downward
   force on the screw is generated, so that there is an effect of suppressing upward movement
   of the screw generated by accumulation of material residues between a bottom surface of
15 the screw and a floor surface of the container.
             As mentioned above, a portion of the input port 410 extends out of the top end
   region of the sieve 200. A material guide surface 620 is provided on the inner surface of
   the crushing processing portion 600 to guide the material input through the input port 410
   toward the sieve 200.
20           That is, the material guide surface 620 is provided as an element for smoothly
   connecting the sieve 200 and the input port 410, part of which extends laterally outwardly
   of the sieve, such that an uncut apple can be fed into the input port.
             Also, the material guide surface 620 continues from the input port 410 while
   overlapping with the input port 410 and is formed to be inclined toward the central axis of
25 the crushing portion 500, thereby causing a lateral side of the material to begin to be
   crushed by the crushing blade 510.
             In order to improve crushing processibility, one or more milling blades 630 may
   be further formed on the crushing processing surface 610.
             In this embodiment, the plurality of milling blades 630 are spaced apart from each
30 other and extend from an upper portion of the crushing processing surface 610 to a lower

                                                  18
   portion thereof, and each of the milling blades 630 is increasingly close to the crushing
   blade 510 as it goes from the upper portion toward the lower portion.
             The crushing portion 500 passes over the top end of the container 100 and sieve
   200 and is accommodated and positioned in the crushing processing portion 600 positioned
 5 in the lid 400.      The crushing portion 500 and the crushing processing portion 600
   cooperate with each other to crush the material input through the input port 410, thereby
   making it possible to smoothly extract juice from the material even if the user does not
   chop the material in advance.
             Since the juice is extracted from the material crushed as above in the sieve 200,
10 there is an effect of preventing the sieve 200 from being deformed.
             In addition, a lateral side of the material is processed by the crushing blade 510,
   which is facilitated by forming the crushing portion 500 to have a length suitable for the
   height of the material.    Thus, the protruding length of the screw blade need not extend in
   order to cut the material itself.
15           Further, a sieve insertion step 420 may be formed in a bottom of the crushing
   processing portion 600 to be snugly fitted to the top end of the sieve 200.
             The bottom end of the material guide surface 620 meets the sieve insertion step
   420 in a stepwise manner, wherein the bottom end of the material guide surface 620 is
   formed to conform to an inner surface of the top end of the sieve 200.
20           Accordingly, the material crushed through the crushing processing portion 600 is
   smoothly guided into the sieve 200 along the material guide surface 620.
             As will be apparent from a reading of the present disclosure as a whole:
                 0 the term "concave", when used herein as a noun means a "recess" or to be
                     "recessed"; and
25               e   the term "crush" means to break up into smaller portions, with a
                     corresponding meaning applying to similar terms, such as "crushing" and
                     "crushed".
             As described above, it can be seen that the illustrated embodiments provide a juice
   extraction module for a juicer having a structure that facilitates crushing a material in
30 advance prior to the material passing to the sieve, which reduces or eliminates an

                                                 19
  inconvenient procedure of needing to chop or cut material before it is input.
                               INDUSTRIAL APPLICABILITY
           It is obvious to those skilled in the art that various modifications and applications
  can also be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.
5

                                                 20
    CLAIMS:
    1.       A juice extraction module for a juicer comprising a container provided with a
   juice extraction space defined therein, a screw for extracting juice from material in the
    container, and a lid coupleable with the container, the lid being provided with an input port
 5 through which the material is input,
             wherein in an upper portion of the screw, a crushing portion is formed and has a
    crushing blade formed thereon,
             wherein on an inner surface of the lid, a crushing processing portion is formed to
   protrude upward and accommodate the crushing portion therein,
10           wherein the crushing portion extends to pass over a top end of the sieve and is
   positioned to be accommodated in the crushing processing portion,
             wherein the crushing processing portion is connected with the input port, and
             wherein the crushing portion and the crushing processing portion cooperate with
    each other to crush the material input through the input port.
15 2.        The juice extraction module according to claim 1, wherein a top apex of the
    crushing processing portion is formed with a shaft hole into which a central shaft of the
    screw is rotatably fittable.
    3.       The juice extraction module according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein a region of
   the input port partially overlaps with a top end region of the sieve and is out of the top end
20 region of the sieve.
   4.        The juice extraction module according to claim 3, wherein an inner surface of the
    crushing processing portion is provided with a material guide surface which smoothly

                                                  21
   connects the sieve and the input port, the material guide surface extending to the outside of
   the top end region of the sieve.
   5.        The juice extraction module according to claim 4, wherein the material guide
   surface continues from the input port while overlapping with the input port and is formed
 5 to be inclined toward a central axis of the crushing portion.
   6.        The juice extraction module according to any one of the preceding claims,
   wherein the crushing processing portion covers an entire bottom region of the input port at
   a height at which the crushing processing portion is connected to a bottom end of the input
   port.
10 7.        The juice extraction module according to any one of the preceding claims,
   wherein the crushing portion has one or more auxiliary crushing blades formed thereon,
   wherein the auxiliary crushing blade assist the crushing blade to crush the material more
   effectively.
   8.        The juice extraction module according to any one of the preceding claims,
15 wherein one or more milling blades are formed on an inner surface of the crushing
   processing portion.
   9.        The juice extraction module according to any one of the preceding claims,
   wherein the screw, including the crushing portion, is formed in unitary one-piece
   construction.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
