                                              ABSTRACT
Gate securing apparatus for a utility vehicle tray for releasably securing a first tray gate and a
second tray gate orthogonally positioned with respect to each other, the gate securing
apparatus including:
       a first corner module capable of being fastened to a first gate, the first module having a
       first engagement part;
        a second corner module capable of being fastened to a second gate, the second module
       having:
               a reciprocating carriage including a second engagement part, wherein, when the
               carriage moves in a first carriage direction, the second engagement part engages
               with the first engagement part, and when the carriage moves in a second carriage
               direction, the second engagement part disengages from the first engagement part;
               a hinged latch handle operably connected to the reciprocating carriage by a lever
               mechanism, such that when the free end of hinged latch handle is moved in a first
               handle direction, the reciprocating carriage is caused to move in the first carriage
               direction, and when the free end of hinged latch handle is moved in a second
               handle direction, the reciprocating carriage is caused to move in the second
               carriage direction;
wherein, when the first module and second module are upright and secured together, the first
(engaging) carriage direction        is orientated   substantially downward     and the second
(disengaging) carriage direction is orientated a substantially upward, such that the carriage
would need to move upwards against gravity to disengage the engagement parts;
and wherein, when the second module is upright, the free end of the hinged latch handle is
located below the hinge of the latch handle, such that the free end of the handle would need
be raised against gravity to cause the reciprocating carriage to move in the second (disengaging)
carriage direction.

            2125
                 C14
   co"
co
        101
                     aL
       C140

                                                       1
UTILITY VEHICLE CORNER MODULE WITH GATE SECURING APPARATUS
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]     The present invention relates to decks and tray decks for vehicles, and particularly relates to
decks and tray decks for utility type vehicles. In particular, the present invention relates to a corner
module that is able to be retro- or custom-fitted to vehicles, including conventional utility vehicles,
trailers, gardening vehicles, carts and many other types of vehicle. The present invention may be
particularly useful for conventional utility vehicles.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]      Utility vehicles, sometimes referred to as utes, pick-ups or pick-up trucks, typically are
equipped with a tray or tray deck at the rear of the vehicle, which serves to carry loads of various
types. The loads may include equipment, sand, gravel and various other kinds of items and materials.
[0003]     Some utility vehicles have a flat area, which may be referred to as a tray, a cargo bed or a
deck. Other utility vehicles have a flat area which is surrounded by up to four sides to form a container,
which may also be referred to variously as a tray or a cargo bed. The sides may be fixed or moveable,
and may be a combination of fixed and moveable sides. Sometimes the side at the back is referred to
as a tail gate.
[0004]     In this specification, for consistency and ease of understanding, the vehicle will be referred
to as a utility or utility vehicle; the flat area will be referred to as a deck; each of the sides will be
referred to as side gates (front, rear, left and right); and the deck and side gates together (whether
there be one, two, three or four side gates) will be referred to as a tray deck.
[0005]     In some utility vehicles, the sides of the tray deck are fixed in position, the deck and sides
forming what is sometimes referred to as a tub. In other utility vehicles, one or more of the sides are
moveable between open and closed configurations. In this specification, unless otherwise indicated,
the term side gate will refer to a side of a tray deck, wherein the side gate is moveable at least between
open and closed positions. Some utility vehicles have side gates which are detachable. Typically, if a
utility vehicle tray deck has a front side (usually adjacent a cab of the utility vehicle), the front side is
in a fixed position, and in this specification the front side may be referred to as a fixed side or also
referred to as a side gate, though it will be understood that the front side is typically in a fixed position.

                                                       2
[0006]    Typically, a deck or tray deck will be provided with a utility vehicle when sold to a customer.
The type of tray deck is either dictated by the model of the vehicle or there may be a very limited
range of options available from which a customer can select.
[0007]    It is also possible to buy utility vehicles without a deck or tray deck fitted, and the customer
can select a deck or tray deck for their vehicle after purchase, but the customer will have a very limited
range of options for a deck or tray deck.
[0008]    Further, decks and tray decks are typically manufactured or supplied as a single unit, and can
be fitted only to one vehicle model or a very limited range of vehicle models. Such units are bulky,
which causes them to be inconvenient and expensive to transport, for example, form a place of
manufacture to a place where the deck or tray deck is to be fitted to a utility vehicle.
[0009]    Many decks and tray decks are not configurable or may have very limited options for
configuration. A customer may want to include various features to make a deck or tray deck more
suitable for that customer's intended use of the utility vehicle.
[0010]    As the objects loaded onto, and unloaded from, utility vehicles tend to be large and heavy,
and the frequency of loading and unloading such objects from the vehicle is high, the design of utility
vehicles must be such that makes loading and unloading of such objects as easy as possible.
Accordingly, the design of the utility vehicle, and the material of its construction, should be able to
withstand the harsh conditions that such vehicles are often subjected to, for example, knocking,
exposure to outdoor conditions/weather and frequent loading and unloading of large and heavy
objects.
[0011]    In order to achieve a sturdy design and construction, the tray deck and side walls and/or
gates of utility vehicle trays, are typically fabricated from aluminium-alloy systems that are tough and
have a high resistance to corrosion and are therefore able to withstand rain, sunlight and the harsh
outdoor environment. As aluminium-alloy systems are lineally extruded, it is difficult to fabricate this
material so as to form curved or rounded corners. Accordingly, the tray corners, along with tray deck
corners and side wall and/or gate corners, of conventional utility vehicles tend to be straight edged
corners. It will be appreciated that straight edged or sharp tray and/or tray deck corners are not only
generally considered by consumers to have low aesthetic quality and visual appeal, but the sharp
edges can also present safety issues.
[0012]    Many utility vehicles have foldable (or collapsible) and removable gates mounted at or near
the rear and left/right sides of the tray deck. Such collapsible/removable gates in the tray design

                                                        3
assists in increasing the ease with which large and heavy objects may be loaded and unloaded from
the vehicle, as the requirement to lift such objects over the fixed rear and left/right side walls of a tray
is avoided. Large and heavy objects may also be loaded onto the tray deck by sliding motion when
one or more of the gates are in the collapsed position or are removed.
[0013]      However, whilst the removable and/or collapsible design of the rear and left/right gates of
the tray increases the ease with which objects may be loaded and unloaded onto the tray deck of the
utility vehicle, such design restricts the ability to locate features such as light fittings at the rear of the
vehicle. In this regard, in order to accommodate the removable or collapsible rear and left/right gates,
light fittings, such as brake and indicator lights, must be located below the tray or tray deck which
results in an unappealing design with low aesthetic quality. This design is also suboptimal from a
safety view point as the lower positioning of the light fittings at the rear of the vehicle results in
reduced visibility of the brake and indicator lights by passengers of other vehicles travelling behind
the utility vehicle when the utility vehicle is on the road.
[0014]      Some utility vehicles incorporate light fittings into a rear corner of each side wall of the tray,
however, in order to accommodate the light fittings, the left/right side walls, and sometimes also the
rear side wall, are in a fixed position, and cannot be removed or collapsed (as can gates) to increase
the ease with which objects are loaded on to and unloaded from the tray deck. Sometimes such
vehicles may be provided with only a rear gate which is removable and/or collapsible, and which does
not contain a light fitting.
[0015]      It is an object of the present invention to overcome, or at least ameliorate, at least one of
the above-mentioned problems in the prior art, and/or to overcome, or at least ameliorate, at least
one problem in the prior art, which has not been mentioned above and/or to provide at least a useful
alternative to prior art devices, systems and/or methods.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0016]      In one aspect, the present invention provides a corner module, including a first part adapted,
in use, to join at an end of a first elongate and hinged gate of a utility vehicle tray, a second part
adapted, in use, to join at an end of a second elongate and hinged gate of the utility vehicle tray, and
a releasable closure retention mechanism including complementary engagement sections in the first
part and in the second part, such that, in use, when the first and second gates are moved towards a
closed position, the gates define a corner, and the closure retention mechanism sections are enabled
to engage to releasably retain the first and second parts in the closed position, wherein at least one

                                                     4
of the first part and the second part has an outer face external to the corner in the closed position,
wherein the outer face is curved, and wherein the defined corner is curved.
[0017]     In another aspect, the present invention provides gate securing apparatus for a utility vehicle
tray for releasably securing a first tray gate and a second tray gate orthogonally positioned with
respect to each other, the gate securing apparatus including:
a first corner module capable of being fastened to a first gate, the first module having a first
engagement part;
a second corner module capable of being fastened to a second gate, the second module having:
         a reciprocating carriage including a second engagement part, wherein, when the carriage
moves in a first carriage direction, the second engagement part engages with the first engagement
part, and when the carriage moves in a second carriage direction, the second engagement part
disengages from the first engagement part;
         a hinged latch handle operably connected to the reciprocating carriage by a lever mechanism,
such that when the free end of hinged latch handle is moved in a first handle direction, the
reciprocating carriage is caused to move in the first carriage direction, and when the free end of hinged
latch handle is moved in a second handle direction, the reciprocating carriage is caused to move in the
second carriage direction;
wherein, when the first module and second module are upright and secured together, the first
(engaging) carriage direction is orientated substantially downward and the second (disengaging)
carriage direction is orientated a substantially upward, such that the carriage would need to move
upwards against gravity to disengage the engagement parts;
and wherein, when the second module is upright, the free end of the hinged latch handle is located
below the hinge of the latch handle, such that the free end of the handle would need be raised against
gravity to cause the reciprocating carriage to move in the second (disengaging) carriage direction.
SUMMARY OF SOME OPTIONAL EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION
[0018]     In an embodiment, the reciprocating carriage of the above another aspect is located within
the second module.
[0019]     In an embodiment, the hinged latch handle lever mechanism of the above another aspect is
located within the second module, and the hinged latch handle does not significant protrude from the
surface of second module when the handle has been moved in the second handle direction.

                                                      5
[0020]     In an embodiment, gate securing apparatus of the above another aspect includes an
operable lock capable restraining the motion of the handle or the reciprocating carriage when in the
locked state; and wherein the lock mechanism is substantially located within a module.
[0021]     In an embodiment of the above another aspect, the first module is fastened to a first gate
and / or the second module is fastened to a second gate.
[0022]     In embodiments, the outer face of each of the first and second parts is curved with respect
to at least one plane.
[0023]      In other embodiments, the outer face of the first part is curved with respect to at least one
plane, and the outer face of the second part is curved with respect to at least two planes. In an
alternative embodiment, the outer face of the second part is curved with respect to at least one plane,
and the outer face of the first part is curved with respect to at least two planes.
[0024]     In yet other embodiments, the outer face of the first and second parts is curved with respect
to at least two planes. In some such embodiments, the planes are substantially orthogonal to each
other.
[0025]    The curvature in the first and second parts results in a utility vehicle tray having rounded
edges when the first and second parts are in the closed position. It will be appreciated that rounded
edges present a safer alternative to straight edged utility vehicle trays as sharp edges are avoided. As
consumers also tend to view articles having smoother lines and curved edges as having greater
aesthetic appeal than articles with straight or sharp edged profiles, the corner module of the present
invention is also expected to result in utility vehicles having a greater aesthetic appeal.
[0026]     In some embodiments, the outer face of the first part is curved so as to match or
substantially match curvature of the first gate in at least one plane. In some other embodiments, the
outer face of the second part is curved so as to match or substantially match curvature of the second
gate in at least one plane.
[0027]     In embodiments, the first and second gates each have a planar side which is inwardly facing
when in the closed position.
[0028]     In other embodiments, the first and second gates are substantially orthogonal to each other
in the closed position. In other embodiments, the gates may not be substantially orthogonal to each
other in the closed position, and each corner module is adapted for gates in this configuration, such

                                                       6
that the internal angle of each corner module is either substantially greater or substantially lesser than
90*.
[0029]     In embodiments, either one, or both, of the first part and the second part include at least
one part of a light unit. In one alternative of this embodiment, the first part has an inner face internal
of the corner module when in the closed position, wherein at least a portion of the outer face of the
first part is sufficiently distant from the inner face to provide a gap, such that the gap enables the first
part to contain at least a portion of the light unit embedded in the first part. In another alternative of
this embodiment, the second part has an inner face internal of the corner when in the closed position,
wherein at least a portion of the outer face of the second part is sufficiently distant from the inner
face, such that a gap in the outer face enables the second part to contain at least a portion of the light
unit embedded in the second part. In yet another alternative of this embodiment, each of the first
part and the second part have an inner face internal of the corner module when in the closed position,
wherein at least a portion of the outer face of each of the first part and the second part is sufficiently
distant from the respective inner face of each of the first part and the second part to provide gaps,
such that each gap enable each of the first part and the second part to contain at least a portion of
each respective at least one part of the light unit embedded in the first part and the second part.
[0030]     It will be appreciated that the ability to embed at least part of the light unit in either the first
or second parts, or both parts of the corner module, allows lights, such as brake or indicator lights, to
be fitted substantially near the corners of the utility vehicle as opposed to below the tray or tray deck.
This not only provides for greater aesthetic appeal, but also results in greater visibility of the lights by
passengers of other vehicles travelling behind the utility vehicle when driving on the road.
[0031]     It will be further appreciated that the ability to embed at least part of the light unit in either
the first or second parts, or both parts of the corner module, whilst also allowing for all gates, including
left/right and rear gates, to be removable and/or collapsible, provides for both safety and convenience
for the utility vehicle.
[0032]     It will be yet further appreciated that the curvature of the first and second parts allows for
forming the gaps into which at least a portion of the light unit, or respective parts of the light unit are
embedded.
[0033]     In yet other embodiments, the closure retention mechanism including complementary
engagement sections includes a complementary latch and latch engagement (or latch receiver or latch
retainer) means. In one alternative of this embodiment, the latch means is on the first part, and the
latch engagement (or latch receiver or latch retainer) means is on the second part. In another

                                                     7
alternative of this embodiment, the latch means is on the second part, and the latch engagement (or
latch receiver or latch retainer) means is on the first part.
[0034]     In further embodiments, the corner module further includes a third part which, in use, is
adjacent and below the first part and second part when in the closed position, and forming a tray
corner of the utility vehicle tray. In an embodiment, the third part has an outer face which, in use, is
external to the tray corner, and wherein the outer face is curved with respect to at least two planes.
[0035]     In yet further embodiments, the corner module further includes a support post, wherein, in
use, the first part is adapted to releasably engage with the support post when the first gate is in the
closed position. In other embodiments, the corner module includes a support post, wherein, in use,
the second part is adapted to releasably engage with the support post when the second gate is in the
closed position. In further embodiments, the corner module includes a support post, wherein, in use,
the second part and the first part are each adapted to releasably engage with the support post when
the first part or the second gate is in the closed position. In yet another embodiment, at least a part
of the post is anchored into the third part.
[0036]     It will be appreciated that a support post may provide increased strength to a respective
corner module
[0037]     In embodiments, where the second part includes a corner-most section of the corner
module, the second part may further include a removable outer face piece comprising the corner
most section in the closed position. The second part removable outer face piece may snap fit to the
second part. In alternative embodiments, where the first part includes a corner-most section of the
corner module, the first part may further include a removable outer face piece comprising the corner
most section in the closed position. The first part removable outer face piece may snap fit to the first
part.   In yet other alternative embodiments, where both the first and second parts meet to
cooperatively form a corner-most section of the corner module, both the first and second parts may
each further include a removable outer face piece, the outer face pieces, in the closed position,
together comprising the corner-most section.
[0038]     In other embodiments, the third part further includes a removable outer face piece including
a corner-most section of the corner module. The third part removable outer face piece may snap fit
to the third part.
[0039]     It will be appreciated that the first part removable outer face piece, the second part
removable outer face piece, and/or the third part removable outer face piece may form sacrificial

                                                        8
covers, which can be removed and replaced if damaged, for example, in an accident. This allows for
maintaining an aesthetically pleasing appearance for the utility vehicle.
[0040]     In further embodiments, one or more of the first part, the second part, the third part, the
first part removable outer face piece, the second part removable outer face piece, and the third part
removable outer face piece are fabricated from plastic, or include at least a portion formed from
plastic. In some embodiments, the plastic may be extrusion moulded.                  It will be appreciated that
forming the first, second and third parts and/or outer face pieces of those parts from plastic allows
for greater ease of manufacture, particularly compared with aluminium or aluminium-alloy extrusion.
Further, using plastic may reduce costs for manufacturing a utility tray, even if other parts of the tray
are formed from aluminium or aluminium-alloy, or other materials more expensive than plastic.
[0041]     In other embodiments, one or more of the first part, the second part, the third part, the first
part removable outer face piece, the second part removable outer face piece, and the third part
removable outer face piece are fabricated from metal, or include at least a portion formed from metal.
In some embodiments, the metal may be punched or pressed into a desired shape.
[0042]     In some embodiments, the first gate comprises a rear gate of the utility vehicle tray, and the
second gate comprises either a left or right gate of the utility vehicle tray. Alternatively, in some
embodiments, the second gate comprises a rear gate of the utility vehicle tray, and the first gate
comprises either a left or right gate of the utility vehicle tray.
[0043]     In this specification, unless context requires otherwise, a reference to a right gate, including
features and/or functions thereof, will apply mutatis mutandis to a left gate, including features and/or
functions thereof, and vice versa. Further, in this specification, unless context requires otherwise, a
reference to a right corner module, including features and/or functions thereof, will apply mutatis
mutandis to a left corner module, including features and/or functions thereof, and vice versa.
[0044]     In this specification, a reference to a utility vehicle tray, utility tray or tray will be understood
to include, unless context requires otherwise, a reference to a number of components operating
together, including, but not limited to: the tray deck on to which is placed one or more objects for
transportation; the left/right and rear gates; and the left/right corner modules, which comprise
corners formed by closure of the left/right and rear gates, the left/right corner modules each including
respective first and second parts.
[0045]     In other embodiments, the tray may include left/right and rear panels depending from the
tray deck, with two third parts of the respective left/right corner modules, each adapted as required,

                                                    9
to form left/right corners for the panels, respectively, in the left/right corner modules.      In some
embodiments, the third part may be configured so as to serve as either a left or right corner module
third part, by having reflectional symmetry.
[0046]     In yet other embodiments, the tray may include a fixed front wall, which is configured so as
to form, in cooperation with the tray deck and left/right and rear gates (when closed), a box. The box
may be configured so as to prevent or ameliorate leaking of substances such as sand or fine dirt
particles when closed.
[0047]     In further embodiments, the tray may include a roll bar positioned at or towards a front part
of the tray. The roll bar may be configured so as to be higher in some parts thereof than the roof of
the cab of the utility vehicle.
[0048]     In some embodiments, the left/right and rear gates are hinged, each at a number of
positions, to allow for moving each respective gate between open and closed configurations. In other
embodiments, the hinge may extend substantially the entire length of the respective gate, which may
provide for a more robust hinging mechanism.
[0049]     In yet other embodiments, the hinge mechanism for the left/right and/or rear gates may
also incorporate means for allowing detachment of the respective gate from the tray or tray deck. In
a configuration where, for example, the tray is used without the rear gate (either removed or
remaining in the open position), the left/right support posts of the left/right corner modules may
provide additional support to the raised or closed left/right gates.
[0050]     In embodiments including light units in the corner modules and including removable gates,
means to deliver power and/or signals to the light units will be disconnectable and connectable to
allow for, respectively, detachment and attachment (or reattachment) of the gates.              In some
embodiments, the means to deliver power and/or signals to the light units is one or more electrical
cables with plug(s) positioned at a point along each cable as required to enable the disconnection and
connection/reconnection of the means.
[0051]     In embodiments, the corner module includes gate securing apparatus for releasably securing
a first gate and a second gate orthogonally positioned with respect to each other, the gate securing
apparatus including on the first gate a first engagement part, on the second gate, a reciprocating
carriage including a second engagement part, wherein, when the carriage moves in a first carriage
direction, the second engagement part engages with the first engagement part, and when the carriage
moves in a second carriage direction, the second engagement part disengages from the first

                                                   10
engagement part, a hinged latch handle operably connected to the reciprocating carriage by a lever
mechanism, such that when the hinged latch handle is moved in a first handle direction, the
reciprocating carriage is caused to move in the first carriage direction, and when the hinged latch
handle is moved in a second handle direction, the reciprocating carriage is caused to move in the
second carriage direction.
[0052]     In embodiments, the present invention provides a method for releasably securing a first gate
and a second gate orthogonally positioned with respect to each other, the method including providing
on the first gate a first engagement part, and providing on the second gate a second engagement part,
on the second gate, moving a hinged latch handle in a first handle direction to cause a carriage, having
the second engagement part and operably connected to the hinged latch handle, to move in a first
carriage direction, wherein moving the carriage in a first carriage direction causes the second
engagement part on the carriage to either engage with the first engagement part on the second gate.
[0053]     In some embodiments, the first engagement part is an open slot and the second engagement
part is a pin. In embodiments, the open slot has an opening at one end and the pin is configured to
be able to slide into and out of the open slot through the opening.
[0054]     In embodiments, the open slot is located at or towards an end of the first gate. In other
embodiments, the reciprocating carriage, pin, and hinged latch handle are located at or towards and
end of the second gate. It will be appreciated that the designation of first gate and second gate is
relative, and in any arrangement of two orthogonal gates, either gate could be designated first or
second.
[0055]     In other embodiments, when the pin engages with the open slot, the first and second gates
are secured in a closed position. In such embodiments, when the pin sufficiently disengages from the
open slot, the first gate and the second gate are released from each other. It will be appreciated that
when the gates are released from each other, each gate may be opened if that gate is not otherwise
secured at, for example, another end of the gate.
[0056]     In embodiments, moving the hinged latch handle in the first handle direction causes the
hinge angle to decrease. Conversely, moving the hinged latch handle in the second handle direction
causes the hinge angle to increase.
[0057]     In other embodiments, the first carriage direction is away from the hinge of the, and the
second carriage direction is towards the hinge.

                                                   11
[0058]     In yet other embodiments, the open slot is open at an end away from the hinge, such that
the second carriage direction moves the pin towards the open end of the open slot and/or out of the
open end of the open slot, and such that the first carriage direction moves the pin into the open end
of the open slot and/or towards the closed end of the open slot.
[0059]     In further embodiments, the pin protrudes from the carriage orthogonally with respect to
the reciprocating directions of movement of the carriage, and a notional plane of a slotted face of the
open slot, when positioned for releasing or securing operation with the pin, is orthogonal with respect
to the reciprocating directions of movement of the pin.
[0060]     In yet further embodiments, the lever mechanism includes a substantially elongate lever arm
hingedly connected at one end to the hinged latch handle, and hingedly connected at the other end
to the reciprocating carriage, such that, when the hinged latch handle is moved in a second handle
direction, the hinge angle between the hinged latch handle and the lever arm increases and the hinge
angle between the reciprocating carriage and the lever arm increases, causing the reciprocating
carriage to move in the second carriage direction. Conversely, when the hinged latch handle is moved
in a first handle direction, the hinge angle between the hinged latch handle and the lever arm
decreases and the hinge angle between the reciprocating carriage and the lever arm decreases,
causing the reciprocating carriage to move in the first carriage direction.
[0061]     In embodiments, the gate securing apparatus includes a bias means. In some such
embodiments, the bias means biases the gate securing apparatus to the secured position.                In
embodiments, the bias means biases the reciprocating carriage towards the first carriage direction.
In embodiments, the bias means is a coil spring. In some such embodiments, the coil spring is coaxial
with the hinge of the hinged latch handle and is configured to bias the hinged latch handle to bias the
reciprocating carriage towards the first carriage direction.
[0062]     In yet further embodiments, the gate securing apparatus includes a detent means, such that
when the reciprocating carriage moves sufficiently in the second carriage direction, the detent means
operates to retain the reciprocating carriage against the bias in a position at or towards the end of
travel in the second carriage direction.    In further embodiments, the detent means releases the
reciprocating carriage when sufficient force is applied to move the reciprocating carriage in the first
carriage direction.
[0063]     In embodiments, the detent means includes a detent pin located in a slot through which the
reciprocating carriage moves, and a lug on a detent biasing means located on the reciprocating
carriage, wherein the detent pin engages with a first portion of the lug when the reciprocating carriage

                                                     12
moves in the second carriage direction such that the detent biasing means is moved opposite its
direction of bias, and when the reciprocating carriage moves sufficiently far in the second carriage
direction, the detent pin engages with a second portion of the lug allowing the detent biasing means
to move towards its direction of bias, such that the detent means is engaged to retain the
reciprocating carriage in a position at or towards the end of travel in the second carriage direction. In
some embodiments, the detent biasing means is a leaf spring.
[0064]    In various embodiments, the gate securing apparatus includes moulded covers substantially
encapsulating the carriage, the pin, the biasing means, the detent means, and the open slot, when the
gates are in a closed configuration.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0065]     At least one embodiment of the invention will be described with reference to the following,
non-limiting illustrations representing the at least one embodiment of the present invention, in which:
[0066]    Figure 1 is a rear perspective view of a utility vehicle having a utility tray including left and
right corner modules in accordance with an embodiment of the invention;
[0067]    Figure 2 is an exploded rear perspective view of the utility tray, similar to that shown in
Figure 1 in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[0068]    Figure 3 is a detailed exploded perspective view of a lower portion of a right corner module
in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention showing features of the third part of the
corner module in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[0069]    Figure 4 is a side cross-sectional view of a utility tray deck right-side panel in accordance with
an embodiment of the present invention;
[0070]    Figure 5 is a perspective view of an internal section of the third part of a corner module in
accordance with an embodiment of the invention;
[0071]    Figure 6a is an inside perspective view of a third part removable outer face piece in
accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[0072]    Figure 6b is a side cross-sectional view of the third part removable outer face piece as shown
in Figure 6a in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;

                                                     13
[0073]    Figure 7 is a rear perspective view of the utility tray right gate (in this embodiment,
comprising a second gate), along with a second part of a right corner module in accordance with an
embodiment of the present invention;
[0074]    Figure 8 is a side cross-sectional view from a rear perspective of the right gate shown in
Figure 7 in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[0075]    Figure 9 is a front-right-side perspective view of the second part from the right-side corner
module depicted in Figure 7 in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[0076]    Figure 10 is a rear-left-side perspective view of the second part from the right-side corner
module depicted in Figure 7 in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[0077]    Figure 11 is a side cross-sectional view from a front perspective of the second part from the
right-side corner module depicted in Figure 7 in accordance with an embodiment of the present
invention;
[0078]    Figure 12 is a rear-right-side perspective view of the right-side corner module in accordance
with an embodiment of the present invention;
[0079]    Figure 13 is a rear-right-side perspective view of a utility tray rear gate (in this embodiment,
comprising a first gate), along with a first part of the right corner module in accordance with an
embodiment of the present invention;
[0080]    Figure 14 is an exploded view of the utility tray rear gate and the first part of the right corner
module, as shown in Figure 13 in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[0081]    Figure 15 is a rear-right-side perspective view of a first piece of the first part of the right
corner module, incorporating a light unit in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[0082]    Figure 16 is a front-left-side perspective view of the first piece, as shown in Figure 15 in
accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[0083]    Figure 17 is a perspective view of gate securing apparatus of a utility vehicle tray deck
securing a first side gate (a right-side gate from a rear view of the utility vehicle) and a second side
gate (a rear-side gate of the utility vehicle) in a closed configuration in accordance with an
embodiment of the present invention;

                                                     14
[0084]    Figure 18 is a perspective view of gate securing apparatus of a utility vehicle tray deck with
the first side gate disengaged from the second side gate, and the second side gate opening in
accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[0085]    Figure 19 is a perspective view, at a different angle from Figures 17 and 18, of gate securing
apparatus of a utility vehicle tray deck with the first side gate disengaged from the second side gate,
and the second side gate fully open in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[0086]    Figure 20 is a perspective view, at the same angle as Figures 17 and 18, of gate securing
apparatus of a utility vehicle tray deck with the first side gate disengaged from the second side gate,
and the second side gate fully open in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[0087]    Figure 21 is a detail from Figure 20 in accordance with an embodiment of the present
invention;
[0088]    Figure 22 is a detail from Figure 19 in accordance with an embodiment of the present
invention;
[0089]    Figure 23 is an exploded perspective view from Figure 22 of part of the gate securing
apparatus with the open slot on the first side gate in accordance with an embodiment of the present
invention;
[0090]    Figure 24 is a similar view to Figure 17 in accordance with an embodiment of the present
invention;
[0091]    Figure 25 is a partially-exploded view of Figure 24 in accordance with an embodiment of the
present invention;
[0092]    Figure 26 is a similar view to Figure 24, with the hinged latch handle of the gate securing
apparatus in a side gate opening position (end of travel of the second handle direction) in accordance
with an embodiment of the present invention;
[0093]    Figure 27 is a partially-exploded vie of Figure 26 in accordance with an embodiment of the
present invention;
[0094]    Figure 28 is a similar view to Figure 27 with covers removed from the gate securing apparatus
for easier viewing of internal components thereof in accordance with an embodiment of the present
invention;

                                                      15
[0095]     Figure 29 is an exploded perspective view of the gate securing apparatus in accordance with
an embodiment of the present invention;
[0096]     Figure 30 is a series of side elevation views depicting operation of a latch of the gate securing
apparatus in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[0097]     Figure 31 is a partially-exploded view showing details of the slot plate and right-side gate
cover in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention; and,
[0098]     Figure 32 is an exploded view of components of the gate securing apparatus in accordance
with an embodiment of the present invention.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF SOME EMBODIMENTS
[0099]      It will be understood that, in describing these embodiments of the invention, references to
left (and/or left side) and right (and/or right side) are made with respect to a view of a utility vehicle
from the rear of the vehicle. Further, reference to inside or inner side is with respect to the side of
the utility tray gates that are inwardly facing when the gates are in the closed position, and reference
to outside or outer side is with respect to the side of the utility tray gates that are outwardly facing
when the gates are in the closed position.
[00100] It will also be understood that, in describing these embodiments of the invention, reference
to the rear gate of the utility vehicle tray will be a reference to the first elongate and hinged gate of
the utility vehicle tray, and reference to the left and/or the right gate of the utility vehicle tray will be
a reference to the second elongate and hinged gate of the utility vehicle tray. However, it will be
appreciated that the feature of the first and second elongate and hinged gates of the utility vehicle
tray as claimed could, in other embodiments, be fulfilled by other gate configurations.
[00101]     In describing these embodiments of the corner module, there is a focus on a right or right
side corner module in the tray of a utility vehicle. However, it will be understood that the same
features and functions will apply mutatis mutandis to the left or left-side corner module. Further, it
will be understood that in other possible embodiments, a corner module could be located at or
towards the front of a vehicle, or at or toward the side of a vehicle.
[00102] Figure 1 shows a vehicle (utility vehicle) 10 having a utility tray 12, which includes a utility
tray deck 14 for carrying loads. The tray deck 14 is substantially planar and is intended for supporting
various configurations of items in a load, and also supports loads comprising particulate and/or
granular materials, such as sand, pebbles, and gravel.

                                                      16
[00103] The utility tray 12 includes a left 16 and a right gate 18 (each of which comprise a second
gate with reference to the respective left/right corner modules). The utility tray 12 also includes a
front wall 20, which is in a fixed position, and a rear gate 22 (which comprises a first gate with respect
to each corner module). It will be understood that designating either the right or left gates as the
second gate, and designating the rear gate as the first gate is not intended to be limiting, and that an
alternative description of the present invention could designate either the left or right gates as the
first gate(s) and the rear gate as the second gate.
[00104] In the embodiment shown in Figure 1, the utility tray 12 includes tray deck panels, including
a left side panel 24 (not shown in Figure 1), a right-side panel 26 and a rear panel 28. The panels may
be friction fitted to the tray 12 or tray deck 14, or could be attached with means such as screws.
[0105]     The utility tray 12 also includes a left corner module 30 and a right corner module 32. The
left corner module 30 includes a third part 34, which comprises a corner between the left side panel
24 and the rear panel 28. The right corner module includes a third part, which comprises a corner
between the right-side panel 26 and the rear panel 28.
[0106]     Figure 2 is an exploded view of the utility tray 12 from Figure 1. In Figure 2, the left side panel
24 is more clearly shown.
[0107]     Also shown in Figure 2 is the left corner module first part 50 and the left corner module
second part 52, respectively joined at an end of the left gate 16 and the rear gate 22. There is also
shown the right corner module first part 54 and right corner module second part 56, respectively
joined at an end of the right gate 18 and the rear gate 22.
[0108]     Figure 2 also shows two parts 58 of the left corner module third part 34 and two parts 60 of
the right corner module third part 36.
[0109]     In this embodiment, the corner modules each include a support post, shown in Figure 2 as
the left corner post 62 and the right corner post 64. Each corner post is removably located in a
respective slot formed in the left and right corner module third parts. Each support post 62, 64 can be
fitted for its respective corner module, or removed, as desired. The support post may provide
additional strength for one or more of the first and second gates, when in a closed position. For
example, if it is desired to use the utility vehicle tray 12 without the rear gate 22, the gate can be
lowered or removed, and the corner posts inserted so as to provide additional support for the left and
right gates 16, 18. The corner modules 30, 32 may also be configured so that when each of the left,
right and rear gates 16, 18 and 22 are in closed position, the support posts 62, 64 provide additional

                                                      17
support and/or strength for the respective corner modules 30, 32 and the respective gates 16, 18, 22.
The additional support and/or strength may be desirable where a load in the utility tray 12 is likely to
cause additional force to bear against the first and second gates, and against the corner module. In
one example, the load may be a pile of sand, which when loaded onto the utility tray, spreads out and
rests against each of the left, right and rear gates.
[0110]    In other embodiments, the posts 62, 64 may be fixed into the corner module. In yet other
embodiments, the posts may comprise ends of an arched member, which could also be used, for
example, as a support for a tray cover.
[0111]    Figure 3 shows a detail of a lower part of the right corner module 32, wherein the two parts
60 of the third part 36 are depicted. One part is the bracket 70, the other part is the outer piece 72,
which may further include a sacrificial cover.
[0112]    The bracket 70 includes a channel 74, which is shaped to accept the right corner module
support post 64. As can be seen in Figure 3, in this embodiment, the right corner module post 64 has
a square cross-sectional shape, and so the channel 74 also has a square cross-sectional shape.
[0113]    The outer piece 72 is configured so as to snugly fit to the bracket 70 and into respective parts
of the right panel 26 and rear panel 28.
[0114]    Figure 4 is a side cross-sectional view of the right panel 26, in which it can be seen that there
are channels for receiving respective parts of the outer piece 72 (protruding lugs) to retain the outer
piece in place or to guide placement of the outer piece when positioning the outer piece into the
corner module 36.
[0115]    Figure 5 shows a more detailed view of the right corner module third part bracket 70 and its
square cross-sectional shaped channels 74. Figure 5 also shows in more detail a hole 73 configured to
receive a fastening means, such as a screw, for securing the outer piece 74.
[0116]    Figures 6a and 6b show details of the outer piece 74 including a bore 75, complementary to
the hole 73 in the bracket 70, configured to receive the fastening means, such as a screw, for securing
the outer piece 74 in place.
[0117]    Figure 7 shows an example embodiment of a second part 56 for the right corner module 32,
and means for joining same to the rear end of the second (right) gate 18. The second part 56 includes
projections 80 and the second gate 18 includes holes 82, such that the projections are configured to
snuggly fit into the holes to retain the second part 56 as joined to the second gate 18. In embodiments,

                                                      18
the projections and holes may be sufficiently snuggly fit so as to not require further means for securing
the same together. However, it will be appreciated that in other embodiments further securing means
could be used, such as adhesive, rivets, screws or other securing means.
[0118]    The second part 56 also includes a latch receiver 83, which form one of the complementary
engagement sections of a closure retention mechanism (shown in further Figures).
[0119]      Figure 8 is a side cross-sectional view from a rear perspective of the second gate 18. It will
be appreciated that the shape of the gate is made substantially more aesthetically pleasing by
providing a curved outer face 81, whilst the inner face 79 is substantially planar, which is practical for
carrying certain loads in the utility tray 12.
[0120]     Further, Figure 8 shows a channel 85 towards a lower part of the outer face 81 of the second
(right) gate 18. The channel 85 may be used for securing hooks or other similar implements when
using a hook and strap mechanism for securing loads in the utility tray 12 or on the utility tray deck
14.
[0121]     Figures 9, 10 and 11 show details of the second part 56 for the right corner module 32 from
different perspectives. The second part 56 has an inner surface 84 and an outer surface 86 with respect
to the corner of the utility tray 12, when the gates 16, 18 and 22 of the utility tray are in a closed
position. The outer surface 86 has a curvature 88 with respect to a vertical plane, which matches the
curvature of the outer surface 81 of the second gate (right gate) 18. It can also be seen, perhaps most
clearly in Figure 9, that the second part 56 has a curvature 90 with respect to a horizontal plane on
the outer surface 86. It will be appreciated that the curvature 90 is configured to provide a rounded
corner appearance in the corner module 32 between the second gate (right gate) 18 and the first gate
(rear gate) 22.
[0122]     Figure 12 shows a rear-right-side perspective view of the right corner module 32, which is
shown in the closed position. More clearly seen in Figure 12 are the features of a light unit cover 100,
which is located in the right corner module 32 first part 54, and the closure retention mechanism 102,
including a latch protrusion 103, a latch handle 104 and a latch receiver 83.
[0123]    The latch protrusion 103 and latch handle 104 are some of the complementary engagement
sections of the closure retention mechanism 102 located in the first part 54 and the latch receiver 83
is the complementary engagement section of the closure retention mechanism 102 located in the
second part 56.

                                                        19
[0124]     The closure retention mechanism 102 is configured so that, when closing the gates and the
corner module, the right (second) gate 18 is moved to the upright-most position, and then the first
(rear) gate 22 is moved towards the upright-most position, wherein the latch protrusion 103 engages
with and into the latch receiver 83 and then slides into an upper part of the latch receiver 83. When
desiring to open the corner module 32, the latch handle 104 is pulled upwardly, which causes the latch
protrusion 103 to move to an upper part of the latch receiver 83, then allowing the latch protrusion
103 to disengage from the latch receiver 83 and the rear (first) gate 22 can be lowered.
[0125]     It will be appreciated that the light unit cover 100 may be configured to include one or more
lights for different functions such as indicators, brake lights or rear parking lights. In other
embodiments of the corner module, where the utility tray 12 is located at or towards a front part of a
vehicle 10, the light cover unit could incorporate facilities for a head light.
[0126]     It will also be appreciated that the curvature in the first part 54 of the corner module 32
creates a space between an outer surface 105 and an inner surface 107 (not shown in Figure 12) of
the first part 54, or may also form a space between the outer surface 105 of the first part 54 and an
inner surface of the first gate 22. The space between the outer surface 105 and the inner surface 107
(or inner surface of the gate 22) allows for a light unit to be fitted behind the light cover 100.
[0127]        Figure 13 shows details of the first part 54 of the corner module 32, which is joined at a
right end of the rear (first) gate 22 of the utility tray 12. Perhaps more clearly shown in Figure 13 is the
latch lug 106, which is located at the end of the latch protrusion 103 of the closure retention
mechanism 102. The latch protrusion 103 moves up and down in a slot 108, and the movement of the
latch protrusion 103 is actuated by raising and lowering of the latch handle 104.
[0128]     Figure 14 is an exploded view of the first part 54 of the right corner module 32, showing that
the first part 54 includes a first piece 110 and a second piece 112. The second piece 112 incorporates
the light unit cover 100, and the first piece 110 incorporates the closure retention mechanism
components of the first part 54.
[0129]     Figure 14 also depicts more clearly a space 114 resulting from the curvature of the gate 22
and the first part 54 (or the first part second piece 112). The space 114, in this embodiment, is formed
between the surface of the second piece 112 and the inner surface of the gate 22, being the surface
of the first gate 22 facing inwardly to the utility tray 12, when the gate is in a closed position. A light
unit may be accommodated within the space 114, with the lights protected by the light unit cover 100.

                                                      20
[0130]     It will be appreciated that a number of other components could be fitted within the space
114, or within the space between the outer and inner surfaces of the first gate 22, formed as a result
of the curvature of at least one of those surfaces (in this embodiment, the outer surface), and that
curvature allowed for by provision of the corner module 32. Such other components may include
reversing cameras, extra light units, proximity detectors, and many other types of electrical,
electronic, electromechanical, and/or mechanical components.
[0131]     Figure 15 is a detailed view of the second piece 112 of the first part 54, perhaps more clearly
showing curvature of the piece with respect to a vertical plane. In embodiments, the second piece 112
may also include curvature with respect to a horizontal plane.
[0132]     Figure 16 show a reverse view of that shown in Figure 15. The vertical curvature of the
second piece is depicted with the second piece being generally thinner toward the top thereof and
thicker towards the bottom thereof.
[0133]      Figure 17 shows two side gates of a utility vehicle tray deck 200, where the side gates are
hingedly mounted to the deck 206 of the tray deck. Depicted is a rear side gate 204 and a right-side
gate 202 (which is on the right when looking at the utility vehicle from a rearward perspective). The
side gates are secured together in a closed position by gate securing apparatus 208.
[0134]     For consistency and clarity, in this specification the right-side gate will serve to demonstrate
the first gate according to the statements of invention, and the rear side gate will serve to demonstrate
the second gate according to the statements of invention. However, it will be appreciated that this
nomenclature is a matter of convenience for the description of embodiments of the invention, and is
not intended to be limiting. It will also be appreciated that the invention can be configured so as to
be used to secure many different gate types, and is not limited to securing utility vehicle tray deck side
gates.
[0135]      Figure 17 shows external components of the example gate securing apparatus 208 including
cover 210, which is located on the rear side gate 204, and cover 212, which is located on the right-side
gate 202. Also shown is a handle 214 on the rear side gate, the handle for manually operating the
gate securing apparatus.
[0136]     Figure 18 shows the rear side gate 204 opening and being rotated downwardly. In order for
the rear side gate to be opening the gate securing apparatus 208 is operated to release the gates 202
and 204 from each other. In this example, the right-side gate remains in its upright position, and may

                                                     21
be secured at its other end (not shown) by other gate securing apparatus to, for example, a front side
gate or a non-moving front side of the tray deck 200.
[0137]    In Figure 18 it is possible to see parts of the mechanism 300 of the gate securing apparatus
located on the rear side gate 204, including a reciprocating pin 302. The rear side gate mechanism
300 is mostly covered by a side 304 of the cover 210.
[0138]    Figure 19 shows the rear side gate 204 in a horizontal position, with the right-side gate 202
in an upright position. Within the rectangle A (included only for picturing purposes), can be seen the
cover 212, which is fixed to the right-side gate, and a slot plate 400, which is fixed to the cover 212.
The slot plate 400 has an open slot 402, with its opening 404 at the lower end of the open slot 402
(when the right-side gate is in an upright position). It will be recognized that the reciprocating pin 302
moves into and out of the open slot 402 to, respectively, secure the side gates together and release
the side gates from each other.
[0139]    Figure 20, similarly to Figure 19, shows the rear side gate 204 in a horizontal position, with
the right-side gate 202 in an upright position. Within the rectangle B (included only for picturing
purposes), can be seen the cover 210, which is fixed to the rear side gate. The reciprocating pin 302
moves in a pin slot 500 located in the side 304 of the cover 210.
[0140]    Figure 21 shows details from rectangle B of Figure 20. The reciprocating pin 302 has a groove
600 so that a flat blade screw driver can be used to screw the pin into and out of a reciprocating
carriage (described later in this specification). The length of travel allowed by pin slot 500 is sufficient
that the reciprocating pin 302 is able to move out sufficiently past the opening 404 of the open slot
402, such that the gate securing apparatus 208 is released, and so that the gates 202, 204 can be
moved apart from each other to be opened.
[0141]    Figure 22 shows details from rectangle A of Figure 19. It can be seen that the cover 212 of
the right-side gate 202 is shaped so that the reciprocating pin 302, when moving out of the opening
404 of the open slot 402 moves into a space 700 (depicted in Figure 22 below the open slot), and
through an opening 702 at the rear of the cover 212 (as depicted in in Figure 22). This arrangement
allows the reciprocating pin to completely disengage from the plate 400, and thus the side gates can
be released from each other.
[0142]    Figure 23 shows details from Figure 22 in exploded view. The slot plate 400 is secured to the
cover 212 and to the right-side gate 202 with a nut 800 and bolt 802 arrangement. The cover 212 is
further secured to the right-side gate with bolts 804.

                                                    22
[0143]     The open slot 402 in the slot plate 400 has two slot sides 806, which are angled away from
the slot plate (which is towards the reciprocating pin 302 when both the rear side gate 204 and right
side gate 202 are in their upright positions). The slot sides 806 are tapered outwardly of the open slot
402 at its opening 404. The angled slot sides and tapering facilitate engagement and release of the
reciprocating pin 302 into and out of the open slot 402.
[0144]      Figure 24 is a similar view to that shown in Figure 17, but without the deck 206 of the tray
deck 200. In Figure 24, it is shown that the gate securing apparatus 208 also includes a locking
mechanism 900, incorporated into the handle 214. The locking mechanism, when locked, secures the
handle in its closed position, against the mechanism 300 of the gate securing apparatus located on
the rear side gate. 204. In this embodiment, the locking mechanism 900 is a rotating key-operated
lock. When the gate securing apparatus secures the gates in a closed position, the locking mechanism
provides security to stop unauthorized people from opening the side gates.
[0145]      Figure 25 shows internal operating components of the mechanism 300, including a frame
1000 having a carriage slot 1006 in which the reciprocating carriage 1008 moves back and forth. Also
shown is a lever mechanism 1002, with a lever arm which is rotatably connected at one end to the
reciprocating carriage 1008, and which is rotatably connected at its other end to the handle 214 (not
shown).      Operation of the handle by pulling it outwardly causes the lever arm to move the
reciprocating carriage downwardly in the carriage slot 1006, which, in turn, causes the reciprocating
pin 302 to move downwardly (described relative to the rear side gate when it is in its upright position).
This will, in turn, cause the reciprocating pin 302 to move out from and disengage from the open slot
402, thus allowing one or both the gates to be opened. Operation of the handle by pushing it inwardly
causes the lever arm to move the reciprocating carriage upwardly in the carriage slot 1006, which, in
turn, causes the reciprocating pin 302 to move upwardly. This will, in turn, cause the reciprocating
pin 302 to engage into the open slot 402 when the rear side gate 204 and right-side gate 202 are both
closed in their upright positions and aligned sufficiently to allow the reciprocating pin to move into
the opening 404 of the open slot.
[0146]     The mechanism 300 also includes a coiled spring 1004, which operates to bias the handle
214 towards a closed position, which, in turn, biases the reciprocating carriage 1008 to the upward
position in its carriage slot 1006 (described relative to the rear side gate when it is in its upright
position). The coiled spring thus acts as a bias to keep the gate securing apparatus 208 engaged
securing the side gates together when both are in their upright positions.

                                                      23
[0147]     Figure 26 is a similar view to Figure 24, with the handle 214 moved outwardly, which causes
the lever mechanism 1002 to push the reciprocating carriage 1008 and reciprocating pin 302
downwardly (as depicted), thus disengaging the reciprocating pin from the open slot 402, and allowing
the rear side gate 204 and right-side gate 202 to be moved away from each other.
[0148]     Figure 27 is a similar view to Figure 26, in which the right-side gate 202 and rear side gate
204 are shown out of their typical positions, and cover 212 is removed, to allow a clearer view of the
reciprocating pin 302 disengaged from the open slot 402 when the handle 214 is move outwardly or
away from of the rear side gate.
[0149]     Figure 28 is a similar view to Figure 27, with the handle 214 removed to more clearly view
the lever mechanism 1002, which, by operation of the handle, has pushed the reciprocating carriage
1008 to a lower end position (as depicted) in carriage slot 1006.
[0150]     Figure 29 shows an exploded view of the rear side gate apparatus cover 210, the handle 214
and details of the rear side gate mechanism 300 (the internal mechanism of this part of the gate
securing apparatus 208). The coils spring biasing means 1004 is mounted on the frame 1000 via a
spring pin 1400. Also shown as part of the mechanism 300 is a detent means 1402, including a leaf
spring 1404 with a detent lug 1410, which is configured to engage with and disengage from a detent
pin 1406 located across the carriage slot 1006 on frame 1000 to cause a detent action. The detent lug
is fixed to the spring via screws 1412.
[0151]     The detent action causes the reciprocating carriage 1008 to be held by a small but sufficient
force in a lower end position (as depicted) in carriage slot 1006. This detent action, in turn, causes the
handle 214 to remain in its outwardly protruding position via action of the lever mechanism 1002.
The detent action also causes the reciprocating pin 302 to be in a lower end position (as depicted) in
pin slot 500. The detent action may lead to more efficient operation of the gate securing apparatus,
as a user does not need to pull the handle 214 when, for example, closing the gates after the gates
have been opened, as the detent action will retain the apparatus in its open configuration with the
reciprocating pin able to re-engage into the open slot 402.
[0152]     Figure 29 (with reference to Figure 30) also shows holes at the ends of the lever arm in the
lever mechanism 1002. The holes 1500 are rotatably fixed to the handle 214, approximately halfway
along the handle. The holes 1502 are rotatably fixed to the reciprocating carriage 1008, and the axis
of rotation is coaxial with the longitudinal axis of the reciprocating pin 302. Also shown in Figure 29
are bolts 1414 for securing the internal mechanism 300 (via the frame 1000) to the rear side gate 204.
The bolts also cause the cover 210 to be secured to the rear side gate.

                                                    24
[0153]      Figure 30 shows stages in a detent action of the detent means 1402. In the left-most
drawing, the gate securing apparatus 208 is in a closed position with the handle 214 against the cover
210. A lower part 1503 (as depicted) of the detent lug 1410 is resting against detent pin 1406, and,
due to the shape of the detent lug, the detent spring 1404 is unflexed (or relatively lowly flexed). In
the middle drawing, the handle 214 is pulled outwardly, away from the cover 210, causing the
reciprocating carriage 1008 to travel downwardly (as depicted) in the carriage slot 1006. The detent
lug also moves downwardly and a middle part of the lug 1504 presses against the detent pin, which,
due to the shape of the lug, causes the detent spring to flex, thus increasing its tension and increasing
the force of the detent lug against the detent pin.       This force causes a small resistance to the
movement of the reciprocating carriage towards the downward position. In the right-most drawing,
the handle 214 is fully moved outwardly from the cover 210, wherein an upper part 1506 (as depicted)
of the detent lug 1410 moves over the detent pin 1406, and the lug is shaped to allow the detent
spring to move back to be unflexed (or relatively lowly flexed), and thus cause a small detent force
against the movement of the reciprocating carriage towards its upper position in the carriage slot
1006, thus the reciprocating carriage is held by detent at its lower position in the slot 1006. The small
detent force can be readily overcome by manual operation of the handle, wherein it is pushed towards
the cover 210, thus causing a reversal of the detent action depicted in Figure 30, and the reciprocating
carriage is able to move towards its upper position (as depicted) in the carriage slot, a movement
which is biased by the spring 1004. It will be appreciated that the force produced by the detent means
1502 and the force produced by the biasing spring 1004 must be balanced to allow the detent action
to operate.
[0154]    Figure 31 shows details of the slot plate 400 and right-side gate cover 212 from a different
view.
[0155]    Figure 32 is an exploded view of components of the gate securing apparatus 208, as
described with reference to earlier figures.
[0156]    The present invention has been described with embodiments exemplified for orthogonally
positioned side gate of a utility vehicle, however, it will be appreciated that the gate securing
apparatus, system and method can be used in many other applications. The apparatus, system and
method can also be applied to a single moving gate, which closes (latches or otherwise secures) to,
for example, a post or a wall. The gate securing apparatus, system and method can also be used for
other objects which need closing, such as doors or windows.

                                                  25
[0157]   Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context requires
otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and "comprising", will be
understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but not the
exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
[0158]    The reference to any prior art in this specification is not and should not be taken as an
acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the common general
knowledge.

                                                    26
CLAIMS:
1.   Gate securing apparatus for a utility vehicle tray for releasably securing a first tray gate and a
     second tray gate orthogonally positioned with respect to each other, the gate securing
     apparatus including:
            a first corner module capable of being fastened to a first gate, the first module having a
            first engagement part;
             a second corner module capable of being fastened to a second gate, the second module
            having:
                    a reciprocating carriage including a second engagement part, wherein, when the
                    carriage moves in a first carriage direction, the second engagement part engages
                    with the first engagement part, and when the carriage moves in a second carriage
                    direction, the second engagement part disengages from the first engagement part;
                    a hinged latch handle operably connected to the reciprocating carriage by a lever
                    mechanism, such that when the free end of hinged latch handle is moved in a first
                    handle direction, the reciprocating carriage is caused to move in the first carriage
                    direction, and when the free end of hinged latch handle is moved in a second
                    handle direction, the reciprocating carriage is caused to move in the second
                    carriage direction;
     wherein, when the first module and second module are upright and secured together, the first
     (engaging) carriage       direction  is orientated   substantially downward     and the second
     (disengaging) carriage direction is orientated a substantially upward, such that the carriage
     would need to move upwards against gravity to disengage the engagement parts;
     and wherein, when the second module is upright, the free end of the hinged latch handle is
     located below the hinge of the latch handle, such that the free end of the handle would need
     be raised against gravity to cause the reciprocating carriage to move in the second (disengaging)
     carriage direction.
   2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the reciprocating carriage is located within the second
        module.

                                             27
3. The apparatus of claim 1 or 2 wherein the hinged latch handle lever mechanism is located
   within the second module, and the hinged latch handle does not significant protrude from the
   surface of second module when the handle has been moved in the second handle direction.
4. The apparatus of anyone of claims 1 to 3 wherein the gate securing apparatus includes an
   operable lock capable restraining the motion of the handle or the reciprocating carriage when
   in the locked state; and wherein the lock mechanism is substantially located within a module.
5. The apparatus of anyone of claims 1 to 4 wherein the first module is fastened to a first gate
   and / or the second module is fastened to a second gate.

                                                 <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                                      10
                12
                     14                20
               16
30                                                                          1/25
                                            18
                     22                32
     24
          34
                          28 36 26
                                     Figure 1

                                                             <removed-apn>             <removed-date>
                    16
                                                                          18
                                                             56
     52
                                                   64   20
                              22        54
          50
                         62
                                                                                                  2/25
                                                                               14
                         59
58                                                                                      26
               28
                                        70
                                              72
                                   Figure 2

                               <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
     14      64
                     74
                                                               3/25
                     70                     26
28
                          26
              72
          Figure 3               Figure 4

                                  <removed-apn>    <removed-date>
                                         72
                       72
            74
            70
                                                              4/25
           73
                             75    75
Figure 5         Figure 6a          Figure 6b

                                    <removed-apn>            <removed-date>
     56                                              18
                                     82
          80
                               18
          82                        79          81
83
               80                                                       5/25
                                     82
          82
                                                     85
           82
             80                      82
                    Figure 7             Figure 8

                                                         <removed-apn>       <removed-date>
                                                                          56
      56
                                          56
                                                                84             86
                                               86
                           80                                                   88
 88
                                                    83
                      80                                             80
                                                    88
86
                           80
                                     84                                                 6/25
                      80                                             80
                           80
87
90                    80                                             80
           Figure 9             Figure 10                        Figure 11

                                         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                 107   54
                                   102        18
                                   83
22
                                   56
     100                           104
           105
                                                                    7/25
                                              26
28
                                   32
                                   36
                       Figure 12

                  <removed-apn>         <removed-date>
                 54
                        102
                               108
                               106
22
                               103
                               104
                                                   8/25
     Figure 13

                       <removed-apn>      <removed-date>
         114                54
                   112
                                              108
                                              106
22                                           103
                                              104
                 100                                 9/25
                                 110
     Figure 14

                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
  112
                         112
            100
100                                          10/25
Figure 15          Figure 16

                                      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
      204
                    208
                                          202
                              212
200
            214
            210
                                                                 11/25
                                    206
                  Figure 17

                                                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                            208                   202
      204
                                            212
                          302
            210            300
              214
                                                                             12/25
200
                    304
                                                        206
                                Figure 18

                               <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
      202
            212
                    A
                               200
                        400
                        402
                        404
                                208                       13/25
                         204          210
206
            Figure 19

                                                         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                            212          202
    204              206
                                                                                    14/25
B
                                                   208
                           300
     210   302 500   214         304
                                       Figure 20

                                   <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
            204                          206          212
                   B
                                                              15/25
600   302    500       300   214
                   Figure 21

                                                 <removed-apn>      <removed-date>
                              400
                                           212
                  212
202                     800
                  400                                      802
                  402               402
                                     806
                  702               404
                  700
                        800
                                                         802
                  A
                                                                               16/25
                                                         804
                                                         804
      Figure 22                                   Figure 23

                              <removed-apn>    <removed-date>
204                                   202
              208
                        212
      900
      214
                                                          17/25
                                      206
            Figure 24

                                             <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
204                                                202
             1004
                    302
                                       402
      900
      1002
                          1000                                          18/25
                                 400
                          1008
                          1006
             300
                     Figure 25

                                       <removed-apn>     <removed-date>
204                                                 202
              210
                                212
        900                     400
      214                       1002
                                                                    19/25
                                300
                          208
                    Figure 26

                                 <removed-apn>    <removed-date>
204                                      202
                 208
        210
                          400
                          402
  900                     404
214                       302
                          1002
                          304
                          300                                20/25
              Figure 27

                                 <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                1004
                          402
                          404
1002                      302
                          1000
                                                            21/25
       1008
       1006
              Figure 28

                                                       <removed-apn>          <removed-date>
                                            300                             1004
                                                                            1400
                                                              302
      210
                                           1502
                                                                            1000
            500
                           1500          1404
                                                                                   1414
214
                                                1410                        1006
                    1412                                                    1406
            304     1412
                                                                                          22/25
                    1412                                            1402
                  1412
                                                       1402
                                                                                   1414
                                  1402
                  Figure 29

                                                               <removed-apn>                 <removed-date>
              210                                210                                210
                                                        1004                                    1004
                                    214                                214
        214         302      1502                                                               1006
                                                        302                                     1502
                                                                                                302
1404
                                                        1008                                    1008
                    1008
                                          1002                           1002
                                                                1500
                           1500
                                                                                                        23/25
1402                1410
                                                        1410                                    1406
                                    1402
1503                                                    1406
                                                        1504                                    1506
1406                                                                                            1410
                    1508                                1510                 1402
                    1510                                1508
                                                        1000                                    1000
                    1000
 1006                               1006
                                            Figure 30

                                     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                               202
               802
212
       402               400
      806
      404
       806
                   802
                                                                24/25
             804
             804
                   Figure 31

                                                                                   <removed-apn>     <removed-date>
                  204                                                208
                                              200                                               202
                                                           1000
                                                                                 400
                                                                     212
                                                   302
                                      204
                               1002
                         1500
                                                                                                                25/25
      900                                                   1406
                                                                           402
214                     1404
                                                   1410                           804
                        304                 1008
                                                                                  804
            210
                                                         Figure 32

