                                        ABSTRACT
   A formwork panel for concrete-work shutterings, comprising a supporting structure
 5 and a separate formwork skin connected to the supporting structure, wherein the
   supporting structure consists substantially of plastics material; and wherein the
   formwork skin, which is constituted by a single formwork skin element substantially
   of plastics material or by several formwork skin elements substantially of plastics
   material each, is releasably connected to the supporting structure.
10

                                            1
                FORMWORK PANEL FOR CONCRETING FORMWORKS
   This application is a divisional application of Australian patent application
   2014289215, the entire contents of which are to be taken as incorporated herein
 5 by reference.
   The present invention relates to a formwork panel for concrete-work shutterings.
   The following discussion of the background to the invention is intended to facilitate
10 an understanding of the invention. However, it should be appreciated that the
   discussion is not an acknowledgement or admission that any aspect of the
   discussion was part of the common general knowledge as at the priority date of
   the application.
15 Throughout the description and claims of the specification, the word "comprise"
   and variations of the word, such as "comprising" and "comprises", is not intended
   to exclude other additives, components, integers or steps.
   Formwork panels for concrete-work shutterings are known in a large variety of
20 designs.
   A distinction is expediently made between the categories "monolithic formwork
   panel" and "composite formwork panel". Monolithic formwork panels are unitary
   structures of throughout the same material. For example, there are known
25 monolithic formwork panels of aluminum, monolithic plastics formwork panels and
   monolithic formwork panels of a welded steel construction.
   Composite formwork panels mostly consist of a carrier grating (frame) and a
   formwork skin attached to the carrier grating on one side of the same. The carrier
30 grating is the supporting component of the formwork panel, with carrier gratings of
   wooden beams, of steel beams or of aluminum beams being known. The
   formwork skin as a rule has a shorter lifetime than the carrier grating and, in
   particular due to wear, damage or fatigue, is replaced after a certain number of
   uses of the formwork panel. It is common praxis to attach the formwork skin to the
35 carrier grating by means of screws or rivets. With known composite formwork
   panels, the formwork skin mostly consists of a multilayer plywood; however, there
   are also formwork skins known in the form of a composite construction of plywood

                                              2
   layers/plastics layer or aluminum layer/plastic layers or glass fiber mats/plastic
   layers.
   According to the present invention, there is provided a formwork panel for
 5 concrete-work shutterings, the formwork panel comprising: a supporting structure
   substantially of plastics material, wherein the supporting structure comprises
   peripheral walls, intermediate walls, and openings, which are open both towards
   the front side of the supporting structure and towards the rear side of the
   supporting structure, between said walls; wherein at least part of the walls are
10 double walls having two walls which, on the rear side of the supporting structure,
   are connected to each other in substantially continuous manner by a material
   portion, or are connected to each other in sections by material portions; and
   wherein the double walls have, seen in cross-section, a U-shaped configuration or
   a hat-shaped configuration; and comprising a separate formwork skin, which is
15 constituted by a single formwork skin element substantially of plastics material or
   by several formwork skin elements substantially of plastics material each; wherein
   the formwork skin is releasably connected to the supporting structure.
    In case of the composite formwork panel according to an embodiment of the
20 invention, both the supporting structure consists substantially of plastics material
   and also the single formwork skin element or the respective several formwork skin
   elements consist substantially of plastics material. The supporting structure may
   consist of plastics material throughout. The single formwork skin element or the
   several formwork skin elements may each consist completely of plastics material.
25 With respect to the supporting structure, it is advantageous to utilize fiber
   reinforced plastics material, wherein "short fibers", i.e. in the meaning of this term
   in the present application fibers having in the average a length of less than/equal
   to 1 mm or "long fibers", i.e. in the meaning of this term in the present application
   fibers having in the average a length of more than 1 mm, can be employed (fibers
30 having in the average a length of several millimeters are very well possible). As
   regards the single formwork skin element or the several formwork skin elements, it
   is advantageous to utilize plastics material that is reinforced by means of "short
   fibers" and/or mineral particles, e.g. calcium carbonate, talcum or other known
   particles. Both in the supporting structure and in the formwork skin, there can also
35 be used other reinforcing means.

                                              3
   The term "separate" as used herein is to point out that the supporting structure
   and the single formwork skin element or the several formwork skin elements each
   have been manufactured individually and thereafter have been combined into the
   formwork panel. Statements further below will demonstrate still more clearly that,
 5 due to the separate manufacture of the supporting structure, there are possibilities
   opened for designing this portion of the formwork panel through which, in terms of
   manufacturing technology, a supporting structure and thus a formwork panel in
   total can be achieved which is of considerably higher strength than e.g. a
   monolithic plastics formwork panel.
10
   The term "releasably", as used herein (which alternatively could also be defined as
   "detachably") is to point out that a type of connection is employed which allows the
   single formwork skin element or each of the the several formwork skin elements to
   be removed again from the supporting structure. Preferably, such removal is to be
15 possible with little working expenditure involved. Preferably, it is to be possible that
   the supporting structure, from which the formwork skin has been removed, permits
   further use of the same in that a new single formwork skin element or several new
   formwork skin elements are attached to the same. The single formwork skin
   element removed from the supporting structure or the several formwork skin
20 elements removed from the supporting structures can each be recycled without
   any problem as they are at least substantially uniform as regards the material of
   the same.
   The formwork panel can be designed such that the front side of the formwork skin,
25 i.e. the formwork skin surface establishing contact with the pulpy concrete, is free
   from the presence of formwork panel constituent parts related to the connected
   state of the formwork skin to the supporting structure. For, if such formwork panel
   constituent parts were present on the front side of the formwork skin, they would
   show in the finished concrete, which the formwork panel according to the invention
30 desires to avoid. In other words: the connection of the formwork skin to the
   supporting structure expediently is effected only on the rear side of the formwork
   skin. For example, if screws are used for connecting the formwork skin to the
   supporting structure, it is advantageous to use a design in which the screws are
   inserted from the rear side of the formwork panel.
35
   The expression "substantially of plastics material", as used herein, has been
   chosen to avoid the risk that the very subordinate use of other materials - as

                                               4
   measured in relation to the overall volume of the supporting structure or the
   formwork skin -, for example of metal pins molded into the plastics material or
   metallic reinforcing corners, could have the result that such formwork panels are
   outside of the scope of the invention.
 5
   As already pointed out hereinbefore, the formwork skin of a formwork panel is
   subject to aging. There is wear when concrete pulp is poured in and when the
   formwork panel is removed from the solidified concrete; there is a certain amount
   of fatigue of the material due to the changing stress (stress due to the concrete
10 pressure/stress relief upon removal of the formwork panel); and, as experience
   shows, there is every now and then damage caused during transport to the
   building site, transport at the building site, during handling and so on. This is why
   the formwork skin has to be replaced after a certain number of uses of the
   formwork panel, which is possible in particularly unproblematic manner in the light
15 of the structure of the formwork panel according to the invention.
   The formwork panel according to the invention achieves a considerable number of
   advantages in combination:
20 (1) When a weight limit of 25 kg is set for the formwork panel so that it can be
   moved by hand without any problem, there are nevertheless still sufficiently large
   formwork panels feasible to permit shutterings or formwork systems to be erected
   and disassembled efficiently.
25 (2) The formwork panel according to the invention can be designed for a concrete
   pressure of up to 40 kN/m 2, when more material is used, it may also be designed
   for a concrete pressure of up to 50 kN/m 2 or 60 kN/m 2 . The formwork panel can be
   designed such that it does not bend more under the maximum design concrete
   pressure than is permitted according to DIN 18202, which makes a distinction
30 according to classes of planarity for different concrete products. A merely small
   degree of bending of the formwork panel ensures that an as plane as possible
   concrete appearance is achieved in the overall concrete product.
   (3) In the formwork panel according to the invention, the plastics formwork skin
35 may be of abrasion-resistant, scratch-resistant and shock-resistant design. There
   are no problems as regards the absorption of water. The formwork skin detaches
   easily from the concrete upon removal of the formwork panel.

                                               5
   (4) The formwork panel according to the invention provides optimum conditions
   for permitting adjacent formwork panels to be arranged with sufficiently aligned
   front sides in a common plane and good, closely packed positioning (little
 5 penetration of concrete slurry).
   (5) Plastics material is less expensive and easier to process and more durable
   than many other materials.
10 (6) The simple replaceability of the formwork skin and the non-visibility of marks
   of parts of connecting elements of formwork skin/supporting structure has already
   been pointed out hereinbefore.
   There is quite a number of plastics molding processes that can be used in the
15 manufacture of the supporting structure and/or the formwork skin elements. As
   processes well suited for the formwork panel according to the invention, there can
   be named plastics injection molding, plastics compression molding (introduction of
   plastics grains or also plate-like precursors or so-called preforms into a split mold,
   heating the mold for melting the plastics material or for thermal curing of the
20 plastics material, cooling of the mold for allowing thermoplastic plastics material to
   solidify), thermoforming (a plate or a film of thermoplastic plastics material is
   heated and pressed into a cooled mold or mold half, or sucked into the same
   using vacuum pressure), and plastics extrusion.
25 The supporting structure is a component having a comparatively complex shape. It
   is particularly expedient to design the supporting structure as a - substantially or
   completely - integral injection-molded component of plastics material. The
   embodiments described further below will demonstrate still more clearly that it is
   possible in particular in case of an injection-molded component to achieve a
30 configuration of the supporting structure that is advantageous in terms of load
   bearing capacity, durability and appearance of the supporting structure. It is
   expressly pointed out that it can be seen from the finished component when the
   same is an injection-molded component, especially from the relatively small wall
   thicknesses, the relatively small radii, the finely modeled shape, the sprues and so
35 on. The supporting structure may be an injection-molded component the form of
   which permits the conclusion that it was actually formed by injection molding.

                                               6
   As an alternative, it is advantageous when the supporting structure - substantially
   or completely - is an integral compression-molded component of plastics material.
   The supporting structure may be a compression-molded component the form of
   which permits the conclusion that it was produced by compression-molding.
 5
   It is advantageous when there is provided at least one formwork skin element
   which - substantially or completely - is an integral injection-molded component of
   plastics material. This formwork skin element may be a component the form of
   which permits the conclusion that it was produced by injection-molding. The
10 formwork skin element or elements are components which as a rule have a less
   complex configuration than the supporting structure.
   Furthermore, it is advantageous as an alternative when there is at least one
   formwork skin element present which - substantially or completely - is an integral
15 compression-molded component of plastics material. This formwork skin element
   may be a component the form of which permits the conclusion that it was
   produced by compression-molding of plastics material.
   The particular formwork skin element often is substantially plate-like with molded
20 on extensions for specific purposes, as explained further below in more detail, but
   it may also have distinct reinforcing ribs for reducing local formwork skin bending.
   The following paragraphs (1), (2) and (3) describe expedient, more concrete
   design possibilities for the supporting structure:
25
   (1) The supporting structure may be an integral structure that comprises walls or
   at least substantially consists of walls. Regarding the formwork panel, which
   comprises the supporting structure and the at least one formwork skin element
   connected to the same, the walls may have a "height extension" extending at right
30 angles to the formwork skin front side, and a "longitudinal extension" extending
   along the formwork skin rear side as well as a wall thickness measured at right
   angles to their "longitudinal extension". The wall height measured at right angles
   to the formwork skin front side may be uniform throughout, but does not have to
   be uniform throughout. The longitudinal extension, among others, may be
35 rectilinear, rectilinear in sections with angles in between, continuously curved or
   curved in sections. The structure comprising walls or consisting at least
   substantially of walls may have four peripheral walls (these are the walls closest to

                                             7
   the four edges of the formwork panel) as well as one or more intermediate walls
   arranged less closely to the edges of the formwork panel. In addition to the walls,
   the supporting structure may have additional material portions, in particular plate
   like material portions extending on the rear side of the supporting structure.
 5
   (2) The supporting structure may comprise one double wall or a plurality of double
   walls the two (partial) walls of which on the rear side (the side remoter from the
   formwork skin) of the supporting structure are (each) connected to each other at
   least substantially along the length of the double wall in continuous manner by a
10 material portion, or in sections by individual material portions, or predominantly
   consist of such double walls or entirely consist at least substantially of such double
   walls. The statements in preceding paragraph (1) concerning the wall height
   extension, the wall height, the wall longitudinal extension and the wall thickness
   apply analogously also for each of the respective two partial walls and for the
15 respective double wall. The expression "at least substantially in continuous
   manner" is to point out that minor interruptions, e.g. for continuous channels from
   the front side to the rear side of the supporting structure for the passage of tie
   anchors or for the passage of mechanical connection means for the supporting
   structure/formwork skin connection, do not alter the fact that a "substantially
20 continuous" connection between the two partial walls of the respective double wall
   is established. The design may be such that - as seen in the cross-section of the
   respective double wall - there is created an at least substantially U-shaped
   configuration or a substantially hat-shaped configuration to be described in more
   detail further below, which allows a particularly advantageous supporting or
25 bearing behavior of the supporting structure to be achieved. On the front side of
   the supporting structure, these double walls may be open, thus providing for good
   production properties. - The design disclosed in paragraph (2) may be combined
   with one or several ones of the features disclosed in paragraph (1). In particular,
   the design with four peripheral walls and one or more intermediate walls is cited
30 here, wherein either a partial number of the entirety of peripheral walls and
   intermediate wall or walls, or just a partial number of the peripheral walls or all
   peripheral walls, and/or just a partial number of the intermediate walls are all
   intermediate walls, or all walls of the entirety of peripheral walls and intermediate
   wall or walls may be designed as double wall or double walls of the type
35 described.

                                             8
   (3) The supporting structure may be designed such that it has at least one
   through-opening extending continuously from its front side to its rear side. This
   feature excludes supporting structures having a continuous plate-like design on
   the rear side thereof. Advantageously, there are provided several such openings in
 5 a distribution across the overall plan view area of the supporting structure that is
   expedient for the stability of the supporting structure and the formwork panel,
   respectively (the distribution may, but does not necessarily have to be more or
   less uniform), in particular more than 5 openings or more than 10 openings or
   more than 20 openings. The openings improve the ratio between load bearing
10 capacity and weight of the supporting structure. In case of only one opening, the
   size of the area in plan view may be at least 20%, better at least 30%, of the
   overall plan view area of the supporting structure. In case of several openings, the
   sum of the area sizes of the openings may be more than 40%, better more than
   50%, of the overall plan view area of the supporting structure. The aforementioned
15 opening or openings each expediently have an area size in plan view which, at
   least for the predominant part of the openings, is more than 25 cm2 , better more
   than 50 cm2 , and thus is greater than the size of channels extending from the
   supporting structure front side to the supporting structure rear side for other
   purposes, e.g. for the passage of tie anchors or the passage of mechanical
20 connection means for the supporting structure/formwork skin connection. At least
   part of the aforementioned openings may be surrounded in part or completely by a
   wall as described in paragraph (1) or by a double wall as described in paragraph
   (2). - The design disclosed in paragraph (3) may be combined with one or more of
   the features disclosed in paragraph (1) and/or with one or more of the features
25 disclosed in paragraph (2).
   A good possibility consists in forming the supporting structure substantially as a
   grating. A grating design creates optimum conditions for supporting the formwork
   skin by the supporting structure in comparatively small "supporting intervals", so
30 that the formwork skin can be dimensioned comparatively thin while nevertheless
   affording a sufficient load bearing capacity. Advantageously the supporting
   distances are throughout smaller than 25 cm, better smaller than 20 cm and still
   better smaller than 15 cm. In a particularly advantageous embodiment, the walls,
   i.e. four peripheral walls and a considerable number of intermediate walls, are
35 designed at least in part (and expediently all) as double walls. At least part of the
   double walls (expediently all of the double walls) of the intermediate walls can be
   designed such that the two (partial) walls on the rear side (the side remoter from

                                              9
   the formwork skin) of the supporting structure are each connected by material
   portions such that - as seen in cross-section of the respective double wall - there
   is created a U-shaped configuration or a hat-shaped configuration to be described
   in more detail further below, which allows a particularly advantageous supporting
 5 behavior of the supporting structure to be achieved. On the front side of the
   supporting structure, these double walls may be open, thus providing for good
   production properties.
   As regards the intermediate double walls, the connected state mentioned of the
10 two partial walls may be such that, possibly apart from the channels to be
   described further below and extending at right angles to the formwork panel front
   side, the interstices or spaces between the two partial walls on the formwork panel
   rear side are each closed continuously towards the outside by the material
   portions. In case of the peripheral double walls - for reasons that will become
15 clearer further below -, a connection of the two partial walls can be provided each
   by a series of spaced-apart "connecting bridges" both on the front side and on the
   rear side of the supporting structure.
    In the more concrete embodiments disclosed in paragraphs (1) and (3)
20 hereinbefore, it is possible that the supporting structure is not designed
   substantially as a grating, i.e. the design substantially as a grating is excluded by
   way of a disclaimer that is expressly disclosed herewith.
   Particularly advantageous types of connection in the present invention for
25 connecting the formwork skin (i.e. the single formwork skin element or each of the
   several formwork skin elements) to the supporting structure are: by means of
   screws and/or rivets and/or clip-type connections and/or fused or caulked
   enlarged portions on molded-on connecting pins and/or releasable adhesive
   connection(s).     The   term   "clip-type connections"    comprises    in   particular
30 connections with resilient tongues having portions latching behind counter
   elements, which in technical language are also referred to as snap fit, as well as
   connections having projecting portions (advantageously: only slightly projecting)
   that are press-fitted into recessed counter-portions (advantageously: only slightly
   recessed); reference is made here also to the embodiments. The average expert
35 knows how to connect two plastics components by means of a releasable
   adhesive connection. For releasing the adhesive connection, there is e.g. the
   possibility of making use of selective solvents.

                                             10
   It is expressly emphasized and expressly disclosed herewith that subject matter of
   the invention also is a formwork panel for concrete-work shutterings that are not
   "releasable". There are possible concrete-work wall shutterings as well as
 5 concrete-work ceiling shutterings in which such formwork panels are provided. The
   manufacturing methods disclosed in the application also apply to these formwork
   panels in corresponding manner. For example, it is possible in particular to
   connect the formwork skin to the supporting structure by welding. Such a
   connection can be undone at the most with considerable expenditure such that at
10 least the supporting structure may be reused.
   It is advantageous in the scope of the invention when at least one formwork skin
   element has at least one or several molded-on extensions having a function in
   transferring possible tensile forces between the supporting structure and the
15 particular formwork skin element (and naturally vice versa). In the formwork panel
   according to the invention, tensile forces are understood to be forces acting at
   right angles to the formwork skin front side. The tensile forces occur in particular
   when the formwork panel is pulled off from the solidified concrete of a concrete
   product manufactured. The tensile forces mentioned may also be force
20 components of forces which in total have a different direction. The extension (or
   extensions) in particular may be an extension adapted to have screws threadedly
   engaged therein. The extension (or extensions) in particular may be an extension
   for a connection of the type "projecting portion is seated in recessed portion", as
   already mentioned hereinbefore.
25
   It is advantageous in the scope of the invention when there is at least one
   formwork skin element that uses a positive female/male engagement with the
   supporting structure in at least one location or in several locations, so that possible
   shear forces acting parallel to the formwork skin front side are transferred between
30 the respective formwork skin element and the supporting structure (and naturally
   vice versa). The female/male engagement can each be constituted by one or more
   extensions molded on this formwork skin element and engaging in a receiving
   portion formed in the supporting structure. It is expedient in this regard when the
   respective extension is arranged in the respective receiving portion substantially
35 without play in the lateral direction.

                                              11
   An expedient possibility of realizing the positive female/male engagement (at least
   in one location or in several locations in at least one formwork skin element)
   consists in providing the formwork-skin-facing end portion of at least one wall,
   better several walls or all walls provided in the supporting structure continuously or
 5 in sections with a series of extensions and recesses, e.g. of the type of teeth of a
   toothed rack. In this case, the rear side of the formwork skin, in those portions
   where end portions of the supporting structure walls are in engagement with the
   formwork skin, is provided at least with partial sequences of extensions and
   recesses, e.g. of the type of teeth of a toothed rack. In the engagement portions,
10 extensions of the respective wall of the supporting structure engage in recesses of
   the formwork skin, and extensions of the formwork skin engage in recesses of the
   respective wall of the supporting structure in the form of a mutually complementary
   engagement. In case of a system of walls extending in several directions, in
   particular in case of    a system of crossing walls, the shear strength of the
15 engagement between      supporting structure and formwork skin is not restricted to
   one direction only (of  the numerous directions possible parallel to the formwork
   skin front side). The    walls may be double walls, in particular as described
   hereinbefore, but may also be walls of different design, in particular as described
   hereinbefore.
20
   Due to the aforementioned positive engagement situation or situations, an
   immediate shear force transfer between the supporting structure and the
   respective formwork skin element and vice versa is ensured. In other words: due
   to the positive engagement situation or situations, the respective formwork skin
25 element and the supporting structure are united such that they constitute an at
   least largely commonly supporting structure. In this manner, it is possible to save
   material in the supporting structure.
    It is advantageous in the scope of the invention when, in the formwork skin
30 element mentioned in the two preceding paragraphs, there are several locations
   using an extension/recess engagement and when at least a partial number of
   these engagement extensions at the same time constitutes an extension or
   extensions which also has/have a function in transferring possible tensile forces
   between the supporting structure and the respective formwork skin element. With
35 these double function extensions, the function of mounting formwork skin
   element/supporting structure with tensile strength and the function of a direct

                                               12
   shear force transfer are thus provided at the same location, which also enhances
   the material balance.
   However, on the other hand, it is also possible in the scope of the invention to
 5 provide the locations for the releasable connections between the respective
   formwork skin element and the supporting structure as well as the locations for the
   possibility of the direct shear force transfer in different positions, which involves
   the advantage that it is possible more easily to make the releasable connections
   easily accessible from the rear side of the formwork panel, which makes itself felt
10 in advantageous manner when the formwork panel is disassembled for replacing
   the formwork skin.
    It is advantageous in the scope of the invention when the plastics material of the
   supporting structure is of higher strength than the plastics material of the single
15 formwork skin element or the plastics material or materials of the several formwork
   skin elements. The supporting structure may be designed such that it creates the
   major part of the total strength of the formwork panel, whereas the formwork skin
   creates only a lesser part of the total strength in the formwork panel. In this case,
   it is acceptable that the at least one formwork skin element consists of a plastics
20 material of lesser strength. As regards the plastics material of the supporting
   structure, it is advantageous to use a fiber-reinforced plastics material, with glass
   fibers or carbon fibers constituting especially expedient possibilities and wherein
   not only short fibers (with a length of less than/equal to 1mm), but also longer
   fibers, e.g. with a length of several millimeters, are conceivable. It is advantageous
25 in the formwork skin element mentioned to provide either a fiber reinforcement
   with comparatively short fibers or a reinforcement with particles, in particular
   mineral particles such as calcium carbonate particles and talcum particles. As
   regards the formwork skin element mentioned, it is not maximum strength that is
   in the foreground according to the invention, but rather good surface quality for
30 good concrete surfaces, good recycling possibilities and a favorable price.
    It is advantageous in the scope of the invention when the plastics material of at
   least one formwork skin element is selected such that the formwork skin element
   is nailable. With formwork panels there is quite often the situation present that e.g.
35 block-like parts or beam-like parts (which then cause recesses or perforations,
   also referred to as cavities, to be formed in the concrete) or formwork angle pieces
   (for forming a terminating edge of the concrete product, which is also referred to

                                             13
   as stopend or stopend formwork) are to be attached by nailing. The nailability
   referred to at the beginning of this paragraph can be defined such that a nail
   having a diameter of 3 mm can be driven in, without visible cracks being formed
   around the nailing location. In this event, the nail can be withdrawn again later on,
 5 and the nail hole substantially closes again with concrete slurry during the next
   concrete-work application and as a rule stays closed. Plastics materials of lesser
   strength than the plastics material of the supporting structure, as described
   hereinbefore, can be provided in a nailable design more easily. Glass fibers as a
   rule clearly aggravate the nailability.
10
   It is advantageous in the scope of the invention when the supporting structure, on
   the two longitudinal sides and/or on the two transverse sides of the same, each
   has a wall-like, in particular a double-wall-like design with a number of wall
   openings, in particular wall-crossing openings. These openings can be used
15 expediently for reaching into the same during handling of the formwork panel and
   for connecting adjacent formwork panels.
   The wall openings mentioned as well as the regions around the same may be
   designed such that mechanical coupling elements for coupling adjacent formwork
20 panels and/or shuttering accessories, such as push-pull props or formwork
   brackets, can be connected or attached there in expedient manner. It is possible in
   the supporting structure according to the invention to provide for sufficient stability
   at these locations.
25 It is advantageous in the scope of the invention when the formwork panel, in plan
   view, has an area of at least 0.8 m2, preferably at least 1.0 M2 . Due to the type of
   construction according to the invention, it is possible to easily make available
   formwork panels of this size with a concrete pressure absorption capacity of up to
   40 kN/m 2, or also up to 50 kN/m 2 or also up to 60 kN/m 2, without involving
30 excessive formwork panel bending or without excessive use of material and thus
   excessive weight.
   As plastics materials for the supporting structure and/or the formwork skin
   elements it is expedient to use thermoplastic plastics materials each, however, the
35 use of thermosetting plastics materials is possible as well.

                                              14
   The preceding explanation in several locations uses the expression "at least one
   formwork skin element". In the event of a formwork skin consisting of a single
   formwork skin element, this single formwork skin element is meant, whereas when
   the formwork skin is constituted of several formwork skin elements, this is to point
 5 out that at least one of these several formwork skin elements is designed as
   indicated. However, it is particularly advantageous when several formwork skin
   elements each or all formwork skin elements provided in the formwork panel are
   designed accordingly. This applies for each of the locations making use of the
   expression "at least one formwork skin element". Taken as a whole, the case in
10 which the formwork skin is formed of one single formwork skin element is the most
   advantageous one.
   An immense advantage of the formwork panel according to the invention consists
   in that it may be designed such that one and the same formwork panel can be
15 utilized selectively either for erecting a wall shuttering or for erecting a ceiling
   shuttering. The term "wall shuttering" in the present application includes also
   shutterings for columns.
   A further subject matter of the invention is a wall shuttering for concrete-work,
20 which comprises several coupled formwork panels according to the invention.
   "Coupled" means "adjoining each other horizontally at the respective coupling
   location" and/or "adjoining each other vertically at the respective coupling
   location". It is possible to use coupling elements for coupling which cooperate with
   the wall openings of the formwork panels mentioned hereinbefore. The coupling
25 elements each may have a configuration that is similar to a door handle having a
   shaft portion integrally formed thereon. On the shaft portion, there may be
   provided two flanges. The coupling elements may be designed such that they can
   be brought into coupling engagement or out of coupling engagement by pivotal
   movement about the central axis of the shaft portion. The coupling elements may
30 have one or more specific features described by way of Figs. 33 to 35. Alongside
   the zone where two adjacent formwork panels are in contact with each other, a
   coupling element or several coupling elements can be used.
    It is stressed that the coupling element disclosed in the present application,
35 separately from the formwork panel according to the invention, constitutes a
   patentable subject matter of its own.

                                             15
   Advantageous materials for the coupling element are metal and plastics material.
    In the wall shuttering according to the invention, there may be provided posts at
   the corners of the wall to be manufactured, with which formwork panels are
 5 coupled "across corner". This holds both for the inside and for the outside of the
   wall corner or column corner to be manufactured. In particular, the respective post
   may have a rectangular (longer than wide) or square horizontal cross-sectional
   area.
10 A further subject matter of the invention is a concrete-work ceiling shuttering in
   which several formwork panels according to the invention for creating a larger
   ceiling shuttering surface are supported in spatial proximity on a support structure
   (which may also be a support structure of conventional design). The support
   structure may be designed such that the respective formwork panels are each
15 supported on at least one ceiling shuttering prop and/or at least one formwork
   panel beam, which formwork panel beam in turn is supported on ceiling shuttering
   props and/or main ceiling shuttering beams, which main ceiling shuttering beams
   in turn are supported on ceiling shuttering props.
20 The present invention also provides a method of manufacturing a formwork panel
   for concrete-work shutterings, wherein the supporting structure is injection-molded
   or compression-molded from a plastics material; wherein a formwork skin element
   or a plurality of formwork skin elements is/are injection-molded or compression
   molded from a plastics material; and wherein (a) in the event that the formwork
25 skin is constituted by a single formwork skin element, this formwork skin element
   is releasably attached to the supporting structure, or (b) in the event that the
   formwork skin is constituted by several formwork skin elements, these several
   formwork skin elements are releasably attached to the supporting structure.
30  It is advantageous in this method when the single formwork skin element on the
   rear side thereof or the several formwork skin elements on the rear sides thereof
   each have a plurality of molded-on extensions, with screws being threadedly
   engaged at least with a partial number of the extensions from the rear side of the
   supporting structure. The screws may be self-tapping screws.
35

                                             16
   The invention and more specific implementation options of the invention will be
   explained in more detail hereinafter by way of embodiments illustrated in the
   drawings, wherein:
 5
   Figs. 1 to 8  show a first embodiment of a formwork panel for concrete-work
                 shutterings according to the invention, wherein in detail:
   Fig. 1        shows a perspective view of a formwork panel, looking obliquely
10               onto the formwork panel front side facing the viewer;
   Fig. 2        shows a perspective view of the formwork panel of Fig. 1, looking
                 obliquely onto the formwork panel rear side facing the viewer;
15 Fig. 3        shows a perspective view of a supporting structure of the formwork
                 panel of Fig. 1, looking obliquely onto the supporting structure front
                 side facing the viewer;
   Fig. 4        shows a perspective view of the supporting structure of Fig. 3,
20               looking obliquely onto the supporting structure rear side facing the
                 viewer;
   Fig. 5        shows a perspective view of a formwork skin of the formwork panel
                 of Fig. 1, looking obliquely onto the formwork skin front side facing
25               the viewer;
   Fig. 6        shows a perspective view of the formwork skin of Fig. 5, looking
                 obliquely onto the rear side of the formwork skin of the formwork
                 panel facing the viewer;
30
   Fig. 7        shows a partial sectional view of the formwork panel of Fig. 1 along
                 the line VII-VII in Fig. 4;
   Fig. 8        shows a partial plan view of the rear side of the formwork panel of
35               Fig. 1;

                                             17
   Figs. 9 to 14  show a second embodiment of a formwork panel for concrete-work
                  shutterings according to the invention, wherein in detail:
   Fig. 9         shows a perspective view of a formwork panel, looking obliquely
 5                onto the formwork panel front side facing the viewer;
   Fig. 10        shows a perspective view of the formwork panel of Fig. 9, looking
                  obliquely onto the formwork panel rear side facing the viewer;
10 Fig. 11        shows a perspective view of a formwork skin of the formwork panel
                  of Fig. 9, looking obliquely onto the formwork skin rear side facing
                  the viewer;
   Fig. 12        shows a partial view of the illustration of Fig. 11 in an enlarged
15                scale;
   Fig. 13        shows a partly sectional perspective view of part of the formwork
                  panel of Fig. 9, looking obliquely onto the formwork panel rear side
                  facing the viewer, in an intermediate phase of assembly of
20                supporting structure and formwork skin;
   Fig. 14        shows a partly sectional view as in Fig.          13, however after
                  completion of the assembly operation;
25 Figs. 15 to 18 show a third embodiment of a formwork panel for concrete-work
                  shutterings according to the invention, wherein in detail:
   Fig. 15        shows a perspective view of the formwork skin of the formwork
                  panel, looking obliquely onto the formwork skin rear side facing the
30                viewer;
   Fig. 16        shows a partial view of the illustration of Fig. 15 in an enlarged
                  scale;
35 Fig. 17        shows a partly sectional perspective view of part of the formwork
                  panel, looking obliquely onto the formwork panel rear side facing

                                            18
                  the viewer, in an intermediate phase of assembly of supporting
                  structure and formwork skin;
   Fig. 18        shows a partly sectional view as in Fig.         17, however, upon
 5                completion of the assembly operation;
   Figs. 19 to 24 show a fourth embodiment of a formwork panel for concrete-work
                  shutterings according to the invention, wherein in detail:
10 Fig. 19        shows a perspective view of a formwork panel, looking obliquely
                  onto the formwork panel front side facing the viewer;
   Fig. 20        shows a perspective view of the formwork panel of Fig. 19, looking
                  obliquely onto the formwork panel rear side facing the viewer;
15
   Fig. 21        shows a perspective view of the formwork skin of the formwork
                  panel of Fig. 19, looking obliquely onto the formwork skin rear side
                  facing the viewer;
20 Fig. 22        shows a partly sectional (section line XXII-XXII in Fig. 21)
                  perspective view of part of the formwork panel of Fig. 19, looking
                  obliquely onto the formwork panel rear side facing the viewer, in an
                  intermediate phase of assembly of supporting structure and
                  formwork skin;
25
   Fig. 23        shows a partial sectional view as in Fig. 22, however, upon
                  completion of the assembly operation;
   Figs. 24 to 28 show a sixth embodiment of a formwork panel for concrete-work
30                shutterings according to the invention, wherein in detail:
   Fig. 24        shows a perspective view of the formwork skin of the formwork
                  panel, looking obliquely onto the formwork skin rear side facing the
                  viewer;
35
   Fig. 25        shows a partial view of the illustration of Fig. 24 in an enlarged
                  scale;

                                       19
   Fig. 26 shows a partly sectional perspective view of part of the formwork
           panel, looking obliquely onto the formwork panel rear side facing
           the viewer;
 5
   Fig. 27 shows a partial sectional view of the formwork panel along XXVII
           XXVII in Fig. 24;
   Fig. 28 shows a partial plan view of the rear side of the formwork panel;
10
   Fig. 29 shows a seventh embodiment of a formwork panel for concrete
           work shutterings according to the invention, in the form of a
           perspective view of part of the formwork panel, looking onto the
           formwork panel rear side facing the viewer;
15
   Fig. 30 shows an eighth and a ninth embodiment of a formwork panel for
           concrete-work shutterings according to the invention, in the form of
           a perspective view of part of the formwork panel, looking onto the
           formwork panel rear side facing the viewer;
20
   Fig. 31 shows a perspective view of part of a concrete-work wall shuttering,
           comprising a plurality of formwork panels according to the invention,
           looking from above obliquely onto the wall shuttering;
25 Fig. 32 shows a perspective view of part of a concrete-work ceiling
           shuttering comprising a plurality of formwork panels according to
           the invention, looking from above obliquely onto the ceiling
           shuttering;
30 Fig. 33 shows a coupling element for formwork panels according to the
           invention, with (a) and (b) illustrating perspective views and (c)
           illustrating a side view;
   Fig. 34 shows a perspective view of two coupling elements of Fig. 33 in two
35         different states during installation on a pair of formwork panels
           according to the invention;

                                              20
   Fig. 35         shows a perspective view of a coupling element of Figs. 33 and 34
                   in the finished, installed state on a pair of formwork panels
                   according to the invention;
 5 Figs. 33 to 38 show a tenth embodiment of a formwork panel for concrete-work
                   shutterings according to the invention, as well as a modification of
                  this tenth embodiment, wherein in detail:
   Fig. 36         shows a schematic plan view of the rear side of the formwork panel
10                 and the supporting structure of the same;
   Fig. 37         shows a schematic sectional side view of the formwork panel of Fig.
                   36 along section line XXXVII-XXXVII in Fig. 36;
15 Fig. 38         shows a schematic sectional side view of the formwork panel of Fig.
                   36 along section line XXXVII-XXXVII in Fig. 36, however with a
                   modification;
   Fig. 39         shows an eleventh embodiment of a formwork panel for concrete
20                work shutterings according to the invention in the form of a
                   schematic plan view of the rear side of the formwork panel and the
                   supporting structure of the same.
   In the following description of embodiments of the invention, the term "formwork
25 panel" will be used instead of "formwork panel for concrete-work shutterings" for
   the sake of brevity. All formwork panels illustrated and described, in terms of the
   dimensioning and load bearing capacity of the same, are designed to withstand
   the loads arising during use in concrete-work shutterings.
30 The formwork panel 2 illustrated in Figs. 1 to 8 is composed of two constituent
   parts, namely a supporting structure 4 and a formwork skin 6 which in the instant
   case is constituted by a single formwork skin element 8. Both the supporting
   structure 4 and the formwork skin element 8 in the instant case consist wholly of
   plastics material.
35
   Seen in total, the formwork panel has the shape or geometry of a right
   parallelepiped which - as measured at right angles to the plane of the formwork

                                              21
   skin front side 10 visible in Fig. 1 and being at the same time the formwork panel
   front side 10 - has a considerably smaller dimension or thickness d than its
   longitudinal dimension I and its width dimension b. In the embodiment illustrated,
   the length I e.g. is 135 cm, the width b is 90 cm and the thickness d is 10 cm.
 5
   Figs. 3 and 4 reveal particularly clearly that the supporting structure 4 has the
   configuration of a grating. Each of the two longitudinal edges is in the form of a
   double-walled wall 12, and each of the two transverse edges is in the form of a
   double-walled wall 14. Between the longitudinal peripheral walls 12 and parallel to
10 the same, there are - in the embodiment illustrated five - longitudinal intermediate
   walls 16 of double-walled design. Between the transverse peripheral walls 14 and
   parallel to the same, there are - in the embodiment illustrated eight - transverse
   intermediate walls 18 of double-walled design each. The clear distances between
   the longitudinal intermediate walls 16 as well as between the respective "last"
15 longitudinal intermediate wall 16 and the respective longitudinal peripheral wall 12
   are all mutually alike. The clear distances between the transverse intermediate
   walls 18 as well as between the respective "last" transverse intermediate wall 14
   and the respective transverse peripheral wall 14 are all mutually alike, and
   moreover, identical with the distance between the various longitudinal walls 12, 16
20 as described hereinbefore. Between the various walls 12, 14, 16, 18, there is thus
   formed a matrix-like or chessboard-like arrangement of - as seen in a plan view of
   the front side (Fig. 3) or the rear side (Fig. 4) - substantially square openings 20
   each, which are open both towards the front side 22 of the supporting structure 4
   and towards the rear side 24 of the supporting structure 4, however in a somewhat
25 different size, as will be described in more detail further below. In the embodiment
   illustrated, there are provided nine openings 20 in series in the longitudinal
   direction I of the supporting structure 4 and six openings 20 in series in the
   transverse direction b. In the embodiment illustrated, each clear opening 20 - as
   measured at the front side 22 - has a size of approx. 10 x 10 cm.
30
   Looking at the rear side 24 of the supporting structure 4 (Fig. 4), it can be seen
   that the double-wall structure of the intermediate walls 16, 18 at the rear end is
   "closed" by a material portion 26 each extending parallel to the formwork skin front
   side 10; this brings additional material to the rear side 24 of the supporting
35 structure. Fig. 8 reveals that the intermediate walls 16, 18, in their end portion
   adjacent the front side 22, each have on both sides thereof a flange 28 which so to
   speak widens the intermediate wall 16 and 18, respectively. Looking at the

                                             22
   respective intermediate wall 16 or 18 in a cross-section, this can be referred to as
   hat-shaped double wall cross-sectional area (cf. in this regard also Figs. 29 and
   30; although shown in a different embodiment, but equally present in so far also in
   the embodiment of Figs. 1 to 8). The flanges 28 bring additional plastics material
 5 near the front side 22; moreover, the abutment or resting surface for the formwork
   skin 6 is enlarged and the clear distances between the supports for the formwork
   skin element 8 are reduced. Thus, the clear cross-section at the front side 22 of
   the openings 20 is smaller than at the rear side 24, where it has a size of approx.
    12 x 12 cm.
10
   The longitudinal peripheral walls 12 and 14, at the locations thereof where an
   opening 20 is provided inwardly of the longitudinal wall 12 or 14, each have an
   oval wall opening 30 in the form of an elongated hole traversing the respective
   peripheral wall 12 and 14, respectively. The openings 30 each penetrate the
15 peripheral walls 12 and 14 completely (i.e. they extend through both partial walls
   of the double-wall structure) and are surrounded by an opening circumferential
   wall 32. Moreover, it is pointed out here that in the peripheral walls 12 and 14, the
   respective outer surface (i.e. the surface facing away from the center of the
   supporting structure 4) is slightly recessed from the outer contour of the
20 supporting structure 4. In other words, the outer contour on the rear side 24
   constitutes a slightly larger rectangle than the rectangle line along the
   aforementioned outer surfaces of the peripheral walls 12 and 14.
   At the locations where respective intermediate walls 16 and 18 cross, as well as at
25 the locations where the intermediate walls 16 and 18 merge into the peripheral
   walls 12 and 14, respectively, there is provided a channel 34 of round cross
   section each, which is delimited with respect to the adjacent three or four
   interstices 36 formed by the double-wall structure by walls 38. The channels 34
   are each continuous from the front side 22 to the rear side 24.
30
   Figs. 5 and 6 show that the formwork skin element 8 has the shape of a plate with
   extensions 40 on the rear side. The function of the four round openings 42 visible
   in Fig. 5, which are located near the longitudinal edges of the formwork skin
   element 8, will still be discussed in more detail further below.
35
    In the embodiment illustrated, there is a total of 66 (i.e. 70 minus four openings
   42) extensions 40. The extensions 40 are each provided at a crossing location

                                              23
   between intermediate walls 16 and 18 and, respectively, at a T-location between a
   peripheral wall 12 and 14 and an intermediate wall 16 and 18, respectively, with
   the exception of the locations of the four openings 42. The extensions 40 thus are
   arranged in the pattern of a matrix or a chessboard pattern.
 5
   When the supporting structure 4 and the formwork skin element 8 are joined
   together, each respective extension 40 enters into the front-side end portion of a
   channel 34. Fig. 7 shows that each channel 34, in its end portion adjacent the front
   side 22 of the supporting structure 4, has a reduced, round cross-section so that a
10 shoulder 44 is formed in the direction towards the rear side 24 of the supporting
   structure 4. Furthermore, it can be seen from Figs. 7 and 8 that each extension 40
   is subdivided by corresponding longitudinally extending slits 46 into four tongues
   48 distributed about the circumference of the extension. Each of the tongues 48,
   in the central portion of its length, has on its outside a respective shoulder 50
15 which extends across part of a circle for slightly less than 900 and, in the
   assembled state of supporting structure 4 and formwork skin element 8, is latched
   outwardly behind the respective shoulder 44 of channel 34 or of supporting
   structure 4. In the center, i.e. inwardly between the four tongues 48, each of the
   extensions 40 has an axially extending cavity 52 which terminates approximately
20 at the level of the plate rear side 54 of the formwork skin element 8. Moreover,
   each of the tongues 48, in the end portion thereof facing the rear side 24 of the
   supporting structure 4, is tapered at the outside thereof, as shown at numeral 56.
    In the light of the design described of the respective extension 40, the extensions
   40, for assembly of supporting structure 4 and formwork skin element 8, can each
25 be introduced into the portion of smaller cross-section of a channel 34. Due to the
   tapered surfaces 56, the tongues 48 during such introduction are slightly resiliently
   compressed towards the extension central axis, and the respective extension 40
   enters increasingly deeply into the respective channel 34 until - due to the tongues
   48 elastically resiling towards the outside - the shoulders 50 of the respective
30 extension 14 snap behind the shoulder 44 of the respective channel 34.
   By way of the engagement described of each extension 40 with the shoulder 44 of
   a channel 34, there is created a connection or attachment between the supporting
   structure 4 and the formwork skin element 8 which holds the supporting structure
35 4 and the formwork skin element 8 together against the action of tensile forces
   acting in the longitudinal direction of the channels 34 or - in other words
   perpendicularly to the formwork panel front side 10. As in each extension 40 the

                                              24
   tongues 48 at the circumference are in contact with that part of the respective
   channel 34 where the latter has a smaller cross-section (cf. numeral 58), and as
   the tongues 48 have a sufficiently large material cross-sectional area there, the
   female-male engagement between this portion of the respective extension 40 and
 5 the portion of smaller cross-section 58 of the respective channel 34 creates a
   connection that is capable of transferring shear forces with respect to the interface
   between the front side 22 of the supporting structure 4 and the plate rear side 54
   of the formwork skin element 8 (i.e. with respect to forces acting parallel to the
   formwork panel front side 10). The supporting structure 4 and the formwork skin
10 element 8 thus constitute an at least largely commonly supporting structure with
   respect to the forces arising.
   It was already mentioned hereinbefore that the formwork skin element 8 has a
   circular opening 42 each at two locations near the one longitudinal edge and at
15 two locations near the other longitudinal edge. Each of the openings 42 is provided
   at a location where a channel 34 is positioned in the supporting structure 4. There
   are thus formed four locations at which a respective so-called tie anchor (in the
   central portion of interest here of the tie anchor, this is in essence a rod) can be
   slidingly inserted through the complete formwork panel 2, i.e. supporting structure
20 4 and formwork skin element 8, as well as completely through a formwork panel 2
   set up parallel thereto in spaced apart manner. Such tie anchors are used in
   particular in concrete-work wall shutterings where formwork panels are set up in
   spaced apart manner in order to create a concrete wall by pouring concrete into
   the space between the panels. On the rear sides 24 of the formwork panels 2 of
25 the respective formwork panel pair, which are directed away from the space
   between such panels, e.g. nut plates are threadedly engaged with the tie anchors.
   The tie anchors take up those forces which the poured, pulpy concrete exerts in
   the sense of urging the formwork panels of the formwork panel pair apart.
30 The attachment of the formwork skin element 8 to the supporting structure 4 is
   releasable. It is merely necessary to radially compress the respective tongues 48
   of the extensions in order to be then able to remove the formwork skin element 8
   from the supporting structure 4. An alternative possibility consists in performing a
   rotational movement of the formwork skin element 8 in relation to the supporting
35 structure 4, which causes destruction of the attachment.

                                             25
   Fig. 6 (but still more clearly Figs. 11, 12, 15, 16 below) shows that the plate-like
   portion 9 of the formwork skin element 8, i.e. the formwork skin element 8 without
   the extensions 40, on all four edges on the rear side thereof has a marginal strip
   11 which is thicker in the direction of the formwork skin element thickness d and
 5 which at that location increases the load bearing capacity and the wear resistance
   of the formwork skin element 8 as well as the tightness of the formwork panel 2
   with respect to adjacent formwork panels 2. When the application refers to the
   plate rear side 54 of the formwork skin element, the rear side inside the marginal
   strips 11 is meant. Inside of the marginal strips 11, the "plate thickness" of the
10 plastics material in the present embodiment is 5 mm.
   By way of Figs. 9 to 14, a second embodiment of a formwork panel 2 according to
   the invention will be described in the following. The modifications in comparison
   with the first embodiment according to Figs. 1 to 8 in essence concern merely the
15 design of the means provided for connecting or attaching the supporting structure
   4 and the formwork skin element 8 to each other. The following description
   concentrates on these modifications.
   As is clearly visible in Figs. 13 and 14, the channels 34 used for releasably
20 connecting or attaching the supporting structure 4 and the formwork skin element
   8 to each other have no reduced cross-section in the end portion adjacent the
   front side 22 of the supporting structure 4, but have a hollow socket 60 of round
   cross-section in the end portion adjacent the rear side 24 of the supporting
   structure 4, which both at the inner circumference and at the outer circumference
25 is of smaller cross-section than the remainder of the channel 34.
   The extensions 40 now each have a cross-section which can be described as
   hollow-cylindrical central socket 62 with four radially extending ribs 64 spaced
   apart by an angle of 900. Each extension 40 projects from the plate rear side 54 of
30 the formwork skin element 8 by a length corresponding approximately to one third
   of the thickness of the supporting structure 4. As seen in cross-section through the
   respective extension 40, the four ribs 64 are dimensioned such that the rib ends
   extend just as far as the four inner corners 66 of the respective channel 34. Thus,
   each of the molded-on extensions 40 and thus the entirety of all extensions 40 in
35 cooperation with the respective channels 34 by means of female/male
   engagements, provides for an interconnection between supporting structure 4 and

                                             26
   formwork skin element 8 which is capable of transferring shear forces acting
   parallel to the formwork panel front side 10.
   For mutual anchoring of supporting structure 4 and formwork skin element 8, there
 5 are no longer provided latching tongues of the extensions 40, but screws 70
   cooperating with the extensions 40 which, from the rear side 24 of the supporting
   structure 4 and through the sockets 60 of the supporting structure 4, are each
   threadedly engaged with the interior of the hollow socket 62 of the respective
   extension 14, cf. the final state illustrated in Fig. 14. The screws 70 are self
10 tapping and themselves cut their respective counter-thread in the respective
   hollow socket 62 during assembly of supporting structure 4 and formwork skin
   element 8. By unfastening the screws 70, the interconnected state or mutual
   attachment state of supporting structure 4 and formwork skin element 8 can be
   easily released. The threaded connections between the screws 70 and the
15 extensions 40 provide for an interconnection that is capable of transferring tensile
   forces acting perpendicularly to the formwork panel front side 10, in the sense of
   separating the supporting structure 4 and the formwork skin element 8.
   The second embodiment tends to permit more efficient manufacture than the first
20 embodiment and thus allows somewhat larger measurement tolerances between
   supporting structure 4 and formwork skin element 8. It is expressly pointed out that
   it is not necessary to install a screw 70 in each of the channels 34. It is sufficient
   for the strength of the connection when only part of the channels 34 has a screw
   70 fastened therein. The extensions 40 may be formed with higher bending
25 strength than in case of the first embodiment.
   As in case of the first embodiment, there are also channels 34a and formwork skin
   element openings 42 for tie anchors. Near the openings 42, there is a respective
   extension 40b which - in comparison with an "ordinary extension" 40a at the
30 longitudinal edge of the formwork skin element 8 - is slightly displaced towards the
   longitudinal central line of the formwork skin element 8. For such extensions 40b,
   there are correspondingly slightly displaced channels 34b provided in the
   supporting structure 4.
35 A third embodiment of a formwork panel according to the invention will now be
   described by way of Figs. 15 to 18. The third embodiment is similar to the second

                                              27
   embodiment described hereinbefore. The following description concentrates on
   the differences from the second embodiment.
   The channels 34 in the supporting structure 4 are of round cross-section and
 5 neither have a reduction in cross-section in the end portion adjacent the
   supporting structure front side 22, nor a reduction in cross-section in the end
   portion adjacent the supporting structure rear side 24. In the central portion of the
   length of the respective channel 34, however, there is provided a transverse wall
   72 having a central hole 74. The transverse wall 72 serves as an abutment for the
10 screw head 76 of a respective screw 70 inserted there from the supporting
   structure rear side 24 through said hole 74.
   The formwork skin element extensions 40 in this embodiment have the shape of a
   central hollow connecting piece 62 having e.g. eight circumferentially distributed
15 ribs 64 which are clearly shorter in radial direction than in the second embodiment.
   As in case of the second embodiment, a self-tapping screw 70 is threadedly
   inserted into an extension 14 at the locations deemed necessary.
   In the following, a fourth embodiment of a formwork panel according to the
20 invention will be described by way of Figs. 19 to 23. The fourth embodiment differs
   from the preceding embodiments in essence by the type of connection or mutual
   attachment of supporting structure 4 and formwork skin element 8. The following
   description concentrates on the description of these differences.
25 As can be seen fastest in Figs. 22 and 23, there are provided circular, hollow,
   molded-on extensions 40 along the longitudinal edges and the transverse edges
   of the formwork skin element 8, whereas otherwise hollow, molded-on extensions
   40 of square cross-section are provided. Each of the extensions 40 has, at the
   outer circumference      thereof,  a first interrupted    series of circumferentially
30 extending, projecting portions 80 on its outside which are arranged in a first plane.
   In a second plane which is axially spaced apart from the first plane, there is
   provided a second interrupted series of projecting portions 80 at the outer
   circumference. The number of these circumferential rows may alternatively be
   smaller or greater than two.
35
   At the inner circumference of the respective associated channels 34 of the
   supporting structure 4, there are provided recessed portions 82, also in the form of

                                            28
   circumferentially interrupted portions in two planes or also more planes or less
   planes. The projecting portions 80 and the recessed portions 82 are positioned
   such that, upon mating of supporting structure 4 and formwork skin element 8 with
   slight elastic deformation of extensions 40 and/or channel walls, the projecting
 5 portions 80 engage within the inwardly projecting counter-portions 82 and are fixed
   there until a considerable releasing force or withdrawal force is applied. Between
   each extension 40 and the respective associated channel 34, there is thus
   produced a female/male engagement.
10 Such slightly projecting portions 80 and such slightly inwardly projecting counter
   portions 82 can be molded-on in the formation of the supporting structure 4 and
   the formwork skin element 8, in particular by plastics injection molding or by
   plastics compression molding, without this necessitating the use of slides in the
   manufacturing mold that are slidable in the direction transverse to the main
15 extension plane of supporting structure 4 and formwork skin element 8,
   respectively. Rather, the manufacturing mold can simply have corresponding
   recesses at the locations where projecting portions 80 are to be formed. The
   formwork skin element produced, in particular while the molded product is still
   warm, can be ejected from the mold cavity under elastic deformation. In forming
20 the supporting structure 4, on the other hand, the manufacturing mold has to be
   provided with corresponding bulges at the locations where the recessed portions
   82 are to be formed. As regards the ejection from the manufacturing mold, the
   statements made in relation to the formwork skin element 8 apply analogously. As
   an alternative, the extensions 40 can be provided with recessed portions and the
25 channels 34 with projecting portions.
   In the embodiment illustrated, the extensions 40 take up approximately one fourth
   of the length of the channels 34.
30 In the fourth embodiment, the channels 34 can be closed at their end adjacent the
   supporting structure rear side 24 (cf. the extension 40 on the left side in Fig. 23),
   or can also be open (cf. the channel 23 on the right side in Fig. 23).
   A hollow circular shape and a hollow square shape of the extensions 40 are
35 expedient for practical application, but may also be replaced by other cross
   sectional shapes. The drawings illustrate the situation of two different geometries

                                             29
   of the extensions 40. It is also possible for all geometries to be identical, or there
   may be more than two different geometries realized.
   By way of Figs. 24 to 28, a fifth embodiment of a formwork panel 2 according to
 5 the invention will be described in the following. The fifth embodiment differs from
   the preceding embodiments in essence only by the type of connection or mutual
   attachment of supporting structure 4 and formwork skin element 8. The following
   description of the first embodiment concentrates on the description of the
   differences from the preceding embodiments.
10
   As is evident in particular from Figs. 24 and 25, the formwork skin element 8 has
   extensions 40 configured like the extensions in the second embodiment (cf. in
   particular Figs. 11 and 13), however without a central, axially extending cavity.
   There are no screws provided, either, that are threadedly engaged with the
15 extensions 40 from the supporting structure rear side 24. In the fifth embodiment,
   the extensions 40 in cooperation with the corresponding channels 34 (in
   female/male engagement each) thus have merely the function of mutually fixing
   the position of supporting structure 4 and formwork skin element 8 as well as
   transferring the shear forces mentioned hereinbefore.
20
   In order to mutually anchor the supporting structure 4 and the formwork skin
   element 8 in tension-proof manner with respect to forces acting perpendicularly to
   the formwork skin front side 10 in the sense of separating the supporting structure
   4 and the formwork skin element 8, the formwork skin element 8 has plate-like
25 extensions 84 molded-on on the rear side thereof. For each opening 20 in the
   supporting structure 4, the present embodiment is provided with two extensions 84
   or three extensions 84 in case of the openings 20 adjacent the edges. However, it
   is also possible to use a different number of molded-on extensions 84.
30 Fig. 30 shows that the openings 20, in those portions close to the supporting
   structure front side where extensions 84 "enter" upon assembly of supporting
   structure 4 and formwork skin element 8, are provided with molded-on projections
   86 projecting towards the center of the respective opening 20. On the side facing
   the supporting structure rear side 24, the projections 86 are provided with one
35 shoulder 88 each. The extensions 84, at the end thereof remoter from the plate
   rear side 54 of the formwork skin element 8, have two protrusions 90 each
   directed away from the center of the respective opening 20. The protrusions 90

                                              30
   are each tapered at their side facing away from the center of the respective
   opening 20 (cf. numeral 92) and have a shoulder 94 at their end facing the plate
   rear side 54.
 5 Upon slidingly engaging the formwork skin element 8 and the supporting structure
   4, the extensions 84, due to the cooperation of the inclined surfaces 92 with the
   insides of the projections 86, are elastically bent towards the inside, i.e. towards
   the center of the corresponding opening 20. As soon as the formwork skin
   element 8 and the supporting structure 4 are completely pressed together, the
10 extensions 84 resile outwardly, with the shoulders 94 of the extensions 84 now
   abutting against the shoulders 88 of the projections 86. The extensions 84 in
   essence take over no fixing function of the formwork skin element 8 in relation to
   the supporting structure 4 in directions parallel to the formwork skin front side 10
   and no function, either, in taking over the shear forces mentioned hereinbefore. It
15 is to be noted that in Fig. 30, there is purposefully illustrated some minor play - as
   measured horizontally in Fig. 30 - between the respective projections 86 of the
   supporting structure 4 and the respective extension 84.
   Upon bending the extensions 84 towards the center of the respective opening 20
20 or upon breaking-off of the extensions e.g. using a screwdriver, the formwork skin
   element 8 can be removed from the supporting structure 4.
   Fig. 29 illustrates that the supporting structure 4 and the formwork skin element 8
   can be connected or attached to each other by adhesive connection, instead of
25 using the types of connection described hereinbefore. Between the flanges 28 of
   the respective double-wall structure with hat-shaped cross-section of the
   intermediate walls 16 and 18, respectively, on the one hand and the plate rear side
   54 of the formwork skin element 8 on the other hand, there is provided a
   respective thin adhesive strip 96. It is not necessary to provide adhesive strips 96
30 in all locations where flanges 28 and plate rear side 54 meet together and in the
   full possible length thereof. The degree of providing adhesive strips 96 is
   determined by the overall adhesive area necessary for ensuring the desired
   connecting strength.
35 The adhesive connection described is releasable when selecting a suitable
   adhesive material known to the expert and available in the market, which can be
   released e.g. by a selective solvent.

                                              31
   Fig. 30 illustrates two additional possible kinds for implementing the releasable
   connection or the releasable mutual attachment of supporting structure 4 and
   formwork skin element 8 according to the invention.
 5
   The first one of the two possibilities consists in molding-on relatively short, pin-like
   extensions 40 to the plate rear side 54 of the formwork skin element 8, e.g. one
   pin-like extension 40 each (or also several pin-like extensions 40) in the region of
   each crossing location or a partial number of crossing locations between
10 intermediate walls 16 and 18 and in the region of each T-location or a partial
   number of the T-locations between intermediate walls 16 and 18 and a peripheral
   wall 12 and 14, respectively. At those locations where a connection is to be
   established by means of a pin-like extension 40, there is provided a respective
   hole in the supporting structure 4, e.g. at a corner transition of two flanges 28, as
15 illustrated in Fig. 30. The pin-like extension 40 at the beginning has such a length
   that, upon assembly of the formwork skin element 8 and the supporting structure
   4, it projects a certain length from the hole mentioned. The projecting end can be
   caulked or re-shaped into a wider extension head 98 e.g. by means of a heated
   punch, as shown in Fig. 30. For releasing the connection between formwork skin
20 element 8 and supporting structure 4, it is possible e.g. to clip-off the plastics head
   98 thus formed, using suitable pliers.
   An alternative consists in providing a respective rivet instead of the pin-like
   extensions 40 of plastics material. The rivet head formed in producing the rivet
25 connection e.g. looks like the head designated 98 in Fig. 30. For releasing the rivet
   connection, the rivet head has to be removed, e.g. by clipping-off using suitable
   pliers.
   All embodiments have been illustrated and described such that only one single
30 formwork skin element 8 constitutes the entire formwork skin 6 of the formwork
   panel 2. This constitutes the preferred case in the scope of the invention.
   However, in particular in case of formwork panels 2 of larger format, it may be
   more expedient to attach several formwork skin elements 8 beside each other on
   the supporting structure 4, with the border(s) between adjacent formwork skin
35 elements 8 extending either in the longitudinal direction of the formwork panel 2 or
   in the transverse direction of the formwork panel 2. In that event, each of the
   formwork skin elements 8 is attached to the supporting structure 4 in a manner as

                                              32
   described in exemplary form hereinbefore for the respective single formwork skin
   element 8.
   Suitable plastics materials for forming the supporting structure 4 and the formwork
 5 skin 6 are known to the expert and available in the market. As suitable basic
   plastics materials, polyethylene (PE), polypropylene (PP) and polyamide (PA)
   should be named here. The supporting structure 4, which bears a major part of the
   load of the formwork panel 2, may consist in particular of fiber-reinforced plastics
   materials, with glass fibers and carbon fibers being indicated as favorable
10 examples. It is indeed possible to use comparatively long fibers (length more than
   1 mm up to several centimeters). As regards the formwork skin 6, which bears a
   lesser part of the load applied to the formwork panel 2 and which preferably
   should be nailable, it is possible in particular to make use of a plastics material
   that is reinforced by means of granular particles, in particular calcium carbonate or
15 talcum. However, a reinforcement using short fibers (smaller than or equal to 1
   mm length), in particular (short) glass fibers, is conceivable as well.
   In all embodiments illustrated and described, the plastics material of the
   supporting structure 4 is of higher strength than the plastics material of the
20 formwork skin element 8 which is nailable.
   In the first embodiment, a length I of 135 cm, a width b of 90 cm and a thickness d
   of 10 cm have been indicated for the formwork panel, with the thickness of the
   plate-like portion of the formwork skin element 8 being 5 mm. This exemplary
25 indication of dimensions applies for all other embodiments as well. However, it is
   expressly pointed out that formwork panels 2 configured according to the teaching
   of the invention may also have still larger formats or smaller formats. When clearly
   larger formats are to be provided, the material required, however, increases
   disproportionately so that uneconomical formwork panels are formed which can no
30 longer be handled manually. When, on the other hand, clearly smaller formats are
   used, erecting and disassembling of concrete-work shutterings becomes more
   complex; moreover, the number of joints between respective adjacent formwork
   panels increases, with these joints possibly becoming visible as molded marks in
   the finished concrete product.
35
   It was already pointed out above in connection with Fig. 1 that, in the first
   embodiment, the edge on the rear side of the supporting structure 4 all around

                                            33
   projects somewhat beyond the outer surfaces of the peripheral walls 12 and 14.
   The same applies for the plate-like portion 9 of the formwork skin element 8 so
   that - in other words - the outer surfaces of the peripheral walls 12 and 14 are
   somewhat recessed with respect to the overall outer contour of the formwork
 5 panel 2. However, on the eight corners of the formwork panel parallelepiped, there
   are small tapers 99 each providing an inclined transition from the outer surface of
   a peripheral wall 12 and 14, respectively, towards the respective outer edge of the
   supporting structure rear side 24 and the outer edge of the plate-shaped portion
   54 of the formwork skin element 8, respectively.
10
   When several formwork panels 2 are set up or placed beside each other
   longitudinal side against longitudinal side or transverse side against transverse
   side or longitudinal side against transverse side, the outer edges of the plate-like
   portions 54 of adjacent formwork skins 6 establish desirably close contact, so that
15 at the most a minor passage of concrete slurry is possible there. The outer edges
   of adjacent supporting structure rear sides 24 also establish close contact. The
   outer surfaces of the peripheral walls 12 and 14, respectively, desirably are
   arranged with a slight distance from each other, in order not to jeopardize the
   aforementioned close contacts at the formwork panel front sides and the formwork
20 panel rear sides.
   In all of the embodiments illustrated and described, the respective supporting
   structure 4 and the respective formwork skin element 8 are each constituted by an
   integral injection-molded component of plastics material or an integral
25 compression-molded component of plastics material, i.e. the supporting structure
   4 and the formwork skin element 8 each have a configuration permitting
   production thereof by plastics injection-molding or by plastics compression
   molding.
30 Looking at first at the supporting structure 4 and the production thereof by
   injection-molding, it can be seen that the openings 20, including the insides of the
   flanges 28, the rear halves of the peripheral double-walls 12 and 14 up to the
   openings 30, as well as the rear surfaces of the material portions 26 closing the
   intermediate double-walls 16 and 18 on the rear side, are molded by portions of
35 the manufacturing mold from the rear side of the supporting structure 4. The
   interstices or spaces between the intermediate double-walls 16 and 18 as well as
   the spaces between the peripheral walls 12 and 14 up to the openings 30 can be

                                               34
   molded by portions of the manufacturing mold from the front side of the supporting
   structure 4. As regards the channels 34, it is determined by the channel shape
   whether molding is effected completely from the rear side of the supporting
   structure 4 (e.g. in the first embodiment, cf. Fig. 7), or completely from the front
 5 side of the supporting structure 4, or whether part of the channel length is molded
   from the rear side and the remainder of the channel length is molded from the
   front side, cf. typically the third embodiment, Fig. 17). For molding the
   circumferential walls 32 of the openings 30 and the outer surfaces of the
   peripheral walls 12 and 14, there are used slides of the manufacturing mold,
10 having a direction of movement perpendicularly to the outer surface of the
   respective peripheral wall 12 or 14.
    It is understood that all relevant surfaces of supporting structure 4 and formwork
   skin element 8 have a so-called draft angle of typically 0.5 to 2 degrees, so that
15 the halves of the manufacturing mold can be opened without any problem, the
   slides of the manufacturing mold can be withdrawn without any problem, and the
   plastics product can be ejected from the manufacturing mold without any problem.
   As regards the possibility of manufacturing the supporting structure 4 by plastics
20 compression-molding, the above explanations are applicable in quite analogous
   manner. The most essential difference between plastics injection-molding and
   plastics compression-molding, in molding thermoplastic plastics material, resides
   in that in the first case the plastics material is injected in liquid form under
   pressure, whereas in the second case the plastics material is introduced into the
25 mold cavity in the form of solid grains and is molten therein under pressure.
   Considering next the manufacture of the formwork skin element 8 by plastics
   injection-molding or by plastics compression-molding, it is apparent that the rear
   side 54 of the plate-like portion 9 of the formwork skin element 8 is a good position
30 for the parting plane of the manufacturing mold so that the extensions 40 can be
   molded with the aid of free spaces in the one mold half. This is possible in
   particularly simple manner in the second, third and fourth embodiments. In case of
   the first and fifth embodiments, there have to be used slides for molding the
   "barbs" on the extensions 40.
35
   Finally, it is pointed out in addition that in all of the embodiments described and
   illustrated the formwork skin front side 10 and thus the entire formwork panel front

                                               35
   side is free from constituent parts that are related to the means for connecting or
   mutually attaching the supporting structure 4 and the formwork skin element 8 to
   each other. In other words, the formwork skin front side 10, except for the
   openings 42, is completely plane (in the sense in which the term "plane" is usually
 5 employed for formwork skins, which does not mean a geometrically level plane in
   the strict literal sense), so that the surface of the concrete product to be
   manufactured reveals nothing but the undisturbed surface of the formwork skin 6
   and at the most certain marks at the locations where joints between adjacent
   formwork skins 6 were present.
10
   It is pointed out for the sake of completeness that in part of the embodiments
   illustrated there are shown openings extending perpendicularly to the formwork
   skin front side 10, which extend through the double-wall structure of the peripheral
   walls 12 and 14 and, in the end portion adjacent the supporting structure rear side
15 24, have a shape that can be referred to as circular with two diametrical,
   substantially rectangular extended portions (shown particularly clearly in Fig. 18 at
   the upper right; Fig. 22). This configuration of opening end portions has nothing to
   do with claims features of the present application.
20 Fig. 31 shows a cutout of a concrete-working wall shuttering 100 that is erected
   using formwork panels 2 according to the invention. In detail, there is illustrated a
   wall shuttering for a wall extending around a corner of 900. It is of course possible
   to erect wall shutterings for straight walls, for columns, for walls merging with each
   other in a T-shape etc. in corresponding manner, with the principles described
25 hereinafter being applicable in all of these cases in corresponding manner.
   In the embodiment of Fig. 31 all formwork panels 2 are "aligned vertically", i.e. the
   longitudinal direction I of the same extends vertically and the width direction b or
   transverse direction of the same extends horizontally. The formwork panel front
30 side 10 extends vertically in all formwork panels 2. "Horizontally aligned" formwork
   panels 2, i.e. longitudinal direction I extends horizontally and transverse direction b
   extends vertically, can be used in part or in all situations.
   Starting from the inner corner 102 of the wall shuttering 100, there can be seen in
35 total four formwork panels 2 in full width (in one case, to the upper left, only in
   almost full width). In addition, there can be seen two formwork panels 2, in which

                                              36
   part of the width is cut off. Furthermore, there is shown a vertical post 106 of
   square cross-section directly at the inner corner.
   Two of the formwork panels 2 shown in full width b have dimensions identical to
 5 the dimensions of the formwork panels in all embodiments according to Figs. 1 to
   30, i.e. eight transverse intermediate walls 18 and five longitudinal intermediate
   walls 16 and nine openings 20 in series when progressing in longitudinal direction,
   as well as six openings 20 in series when progressing in transverse direction.
   Adjoining the post 106 around the corner, there are two formwork panels 2 of
10 comparatively lesser width b. In detail, the width b thereof is one third of the width
   of the "full-size formwork panels 2", i.e. there are only two openings 20 in series
   when progressing in transverse direction. The length I of the latter formwork
   panels 2 is equal to the length I of the full-size formwork panels 2. On the outside
   of the corner of the concrete wall to be manufactured, there can be seen - directly
15 at the corner - another post 108 corresponding to post 106 and followed around
   the corner by two formwork panels 2 of 2/3 width as compared to the width b of a
   full-size formwork panel 2. The latter formwork panels 2 are followed on both sides
   by full-size formwork panels 2.
20 It is emphasized that Fig. 31 shows so to speak only the upper half of a wall
   shuttering portion. A second, lower half follows in downward direction, as will still
   be described in more detail. The wall shuttering in total then has a height of 270
   cm, which in building construction is a quite common ceiling height from the
   concrete floor to the bottom side of the ceiling.
25
   In the right-hand third of Fig. 31, at the lower portion, it can be seen that and how
   respective adjacent formwork panels 2 are coupled and the last formwork panel 2
   is coupled to post 108. When going down at the last outside-corner formwork
   panel 2a at the left-hand vertical edge to the fourth opening 20, there can be seen
30 part of a coupling element 110. At the right-hand vertical edge of the same
   formwork panel 2a, there can be seen four coupling elements 110 of the same
   type. Also in the left-hand third of Fig. 1, at the top portion, there can be seen a
   coupling element 110 of the same type. Coupling elements 110 of this type will be
   described in more detail further below by way of Figs. 33 to 35. It is sufficient to
35 point out here that such coupling elements 110, engaging through pairs of
   openings 30 in the peripheral walls 12, are capable of effecting coupling of

                                              37
   adjacent formwork panels 2 or coupling of a formwork panel 2 to a post 106 or
    108, respectively.
   At the very left, in the middle of Fig. 31, there can be seen that and how coupling
 5 elements 110 of the same type are adapted to couple two vertically adjoining
   formwork panels 2 to each other by having the respective coupling element 110
   engage through a pair of openings 30 in transverse peripheral walls 14 of two
   formwork panels 2.
10 Moreover, Fig. 31 at several locations shows the ends of tie anchors 112 (of the
   type already mentioned hereinbefore) which by means of a nut plate 114 are fixed
   against the supporting structure rear sides 24 of two aligned, adjacent formwork
   panels 2. The tie anchor rod 112, as described in more detail in connection with
   the first embodiment, extends through a channel of only one supporting structure 4
15 which extends at right angles to the formwork skin front side 10. The adjacent
   formwork panel 2 is included in the pressing operation via the nut plate 114.
    It is understood that the vertical alignment of the formwork panels 2 and
   maintenance of this vertical alignment under the pressure of the poured-in
20 concrete is ensured in appropriate intervals along the wall shuttering 100 by
   means of push-pull props attached on the one hand on the ground and on the
   other hand on formwork panels 2.
   Fig. 32 illustrates merely by way of an example (of numerous examples possible)
25 how a concrete-working ceiling shuttering 120 can be designed using formwork
   panels 2 according to the invention.
    In the central portion of Fig. 32, there can be seen part of a row of ceiling
   shuttering props 122, with this row extending from the lower left to the upper right
30 in Fig. 32 and with only two ceiling shuttering props 122 of a larger number of
   ceiling shuttering props 122 of this row being illustrated. Further to the upper left in
   Fig. 35, there is shown another ceiling shuttering prop 122 belonging to a further
   row of ceiling shuttering props 122 extending from the lower left to the upper right.
   Within each row of ceiling shuttering props 122, a formwork panel beam 124
35 extends from one ceiling shuttering prop head 126 to the next ceiling shuttering
   prop head 126. The longitudinal central line of the row described first as well as
   the longitudinal central line of the row described second are spaced apart by a

                                               38
   distance which in essence corresponds to the length I of the formwork panels 2
   inserted between the rows, plus twice half of the width of a formwork panel beam
   124.
 5 It is pointed out that, instead of the construction of a ceiling shuttering 120 using
   the formwork panels 2 according to the invention, as shown in Fig. 32, it is also
   possible to realize in particular ceiling shutterings 120 in a construction with so
   called main beams and so-called auxiliary beams. For this situation, one has to
   imagine on the basis of Fig. 32 that the interval between the parallel formwork
10 panel beams 124 is not bridged by formwork panels 2, but by a series of auxiliary
   beams placed parallel to each other (in this case the distance between the
   formwork panel beams 124 illustrated is normally larger). In this event, the beams
   extending from prop 122 to prop 122 are referred to as "main beams", and the
   beams extending at right angles thereto and placed on the main beams are
15 referred to as "auxiliary beams". The formwork panels 2 then are placed such that
   they each bridge the distance between two adjacent auxiliary beams. Thus, in this
   case the auxiliary beams are those beams which in the present application are
   referred to as formwork panel beams.
20 An embodiment of a coupling element 110 will now be described by way of Figs.
   33 to 35, which in particular can be used with wall shutterings 100 according to the
   invention, but also for other purposes of which examples will be given further
   below.
25 The coupling element 110 illustrated on the whole has a configuration resembling
   a door handle with integrated shaft, with the coupling element 110 in total being
   pivotable about the central axis 144 of said shaft. The coupling element 110 may
   consist in particular of metal or of plastics material.
30 The coupling element 110 has a shaft portion 140 and, integrally with the shaft
   portion 140, an elongate handle portion 142 extending in a plane located at right
   angles to the imaginary central axis 144 of the shaft portion 140. The handle
   portion 142 itself is bent by approx. 450 in its plane, relatively close to the shaft
   portion 140. The straight, longer part 146 of the handle portion 142 can be
35 grasped by the hand of a worker and, with the assistance of a leverage
   established by the distance grasping location/central axis 144, the shaft portion
   140 then can be rotated about its central axis 144.

                                              39
   The handle portion 142 integrally merges with the shaft portion 140 at a first end
   portion of the same. In a slight distance apart from this transition location, the
   shaft portion 140 has a first flange 148 arranged thereon in the form of an annular
 5 outwardly projecting flange. In a clear distance a from the first flange 148, there is
   provided a second flange 150 in the second end portion of the shaft portion 140,
   said second flange 150 having a more complex shape that will still be described in
   more detail below. The clear distance a - for the time being roughly speaking - is
   approximately of a size which, in case of wall ceiling formwork panels 2 erected
10 side by side in aligned manner, corresponds to the summed thickness of two
   peripheral walls 12 or 14 in the region of the vicinity around a corresponding
   opening 30, and added thereto the (small) clear distance between the outer
   surfaces of the pair of peripheral walls 12 and 14, respectively, as described in
   connection with the first embodiment and the recessed state of the outer surface
15 of the peripheral walls 12 and 14, respectively. This can be seen in Fig. 31 and in
   an enlarged scale in Figs. 34 and 35.
   Between the first flange 148 and the second flange 150, the shaft portion 140 in
   an intermediate flange portion 141 is only substantially circular-cylindrical. To be
20 more specific, the shaft portion 140 at that location has a slightly elongate cross
   section, which can be described as "oval-like" or "resembling an ellipse" or as "two
   semi-circles with two straight portions in between". This cross-sectional shape is
   not visually apparent in Fig. 33 as the "thickness" or the "local diameter" at the
   shortest location is only slightly smaller than at the longest location that is approx.
25 900 apart. The function of this cross-sectional shape will be described in more
   detail further below.
   Looking at that end face of the shaft portion 140 where the second flange 150 is
   located, cf. arrow A in Fig. 33(c), the second flange 150 has an oval outer contour,
30 and thus a semicircular section 152 at each end and a straight section 154
   between each thereof on both sides. In the central portion between the two semi
   circular sections 152, the second flange 150 - as measured at right angles to the
   course of the straight sections 154 between the semicircular sections 152 - has a
   width c which corresponds to the smallest thickness or the smallest diameter of
35 the only substantially circular-cylindrical portion 141 of the shaft portion 140, or is
   slightly smaller than the same. As measured at right angles to the width c, the
   second flange 150 has a dimension e that is clearly larger than the width c. In

                                             40
   other words, the amount of radial projection of the second flange 150 beyond the
   circumferential surface of the only substantially circular-cylindrical portion 141 of
   the shaft portion 140, when progressing by 900, increases from 0 to a maximum
   amount, and when progressing by a further 900, decreases from the maximum
 5 amount to 0, and when then progressing by a further 900, increases from 0 to a
   maximum amount and, when progressing by a further 900, then decreases from
   the maximum amount to 0.
   Fig. 36(b) and Fig. 36(c), each at the lower right, show that the end face of the
10 second flange 150 facing the first flange 148 is not level, but is divided into two
   parts (with the first part corresponding to the just described first radial extension
   increasing/radial extension decreasing course across 1800, and the second part
   corresponding to the just described second radial extension increasing/radial
   extension decreasing course across 1800); in each of these two parts, an approx.
15 half, 900 partial region is formed as wedge surface 156 which, when progressing in
   circumferential direction, gradually decreases from a maximum distance a + x
   from the opposite end face of the first flange 140 to a distance a from the opposite
   end face of the first flange 148.
20 On the basis of the geometry described of the shaft portion 140 with the second
   flange 150 of the coupling element 110, it is possible to insert the shaft portion 140
   with the second flange 150 leading into an aligned pair of openings 30 of two
   parallel peripheral walls 12 or 14 of two adjacent formwork panels 2. As pointed
   out hereinbefore, the openings 30 are of oval shape or in the shape of an elongate
25 hole, and the described oval shape of the second flange 150 is such that the shaft
   portion 140, with the second flange 150 leading, can just be inserted through the
   two openings 30 when the larger dimension e of the second flange 150 coincides
   with the larger length of the oval opening 30. The beginning of this insertion
   operation can be seen in Fig. 34 at the right-hand coupling element 110, and the
30 end of this insertion operation can be seen in Fig. 34 at the left-hand coupling
   element 110 from the side of the second flange 150. In the fully inserted state, the
   end face of the first flange 148 facing the second flange 150 is in contact with the
   portion of the respective peripheral wall 12 or 14 of the formwork panel 2
   surrounding the respective opening 30.
35
   Upon termination of the insertion operation described, the second flange 150 of
   the respective coupling element 110 is located completely on the inside of the

                                            41
   respective peripheral wall 12 or 14 of the second formwork panel 2 (with the
   second formwork panel 2 designating here the formwork panel 2 the opening 30 of
   which is passed by the second flange 150 as second opening of the pair of
   openings 30). Consequently, the coupling element 110 can be rotated or pivoted
 5 by means of the handle portion 142 about the central axis 144 thereof, in
   counterclockwise direction when looking at that end face of the shaft portion 140
   where the handle portion 142 starts. In the right-hand coupling element 110 in Fig.
   34, the pivotal movement would be visible in counterclockwise direction if the
   introduction of the shaft portion 140 had already been carried out. In the left-hand
10 coupling element 110 in Fig. 37, in which the insertion operation has already been
   carried out, the pivotal movement of the handle portion 142 would be seen as
   pivotal movement in clockwise direction, as one looks in this case onto the end
   face of the shaft portion 140 where the second flange 150 is provided.
15 Fig. 35 illustrates the state in which the handle portion 142 has been pivoted
   completely by 900. The second flange 150 (like the first flange 148) have
   performed a rotational motion of 900 about the central axis 144. The larger
   dimension e of the second flange 150 now extends perpendicularly to the larger
   dimension of the adjacent opening 30 there in a peripheral wall 12 of 14 of a
20 formwork panel 2. The pair considered of the peripheral walls 12 or 14 is clamped
   together between the first flange 148 and the second flange 150. The adjacent
   formwork panels 2 are coupled to each other at this pair of peripheral walls 12 or
   14. Depending on the dimensions of the formwork panels 2 and the loads to be
   expected, it is possible to employ one coupling element 110 or several coupling
25 elements 110 along the pair of peripheral walls 12 of 14 considered. Moreover, it
   can be seen that, in the clamping position of the coupling element 110, the longer,
   straight portion 146 of the handle portion 142 is arranged parallel to the respective
   formwork panel rear side 24 and, moreover, has part of its length located in a
   suitable recess 160 which in the intermediate walls 16 and 18 is provided in the
30 rear portion near the peripheral walls 12 and 14 each.
   In the initial phase of the aforementioned clamping pivotal movement of the shaft
   portion 40 and thus of the second flange 150, the two wedge surfaces 156 of the
   second flange 150 establish contact with the edge portion of the respective
35 opening 30, so that the two participating peripheral walls 12 or 14 are increasingly
   clamped together in the course of the pivotal movement by approx. 450. In the
   course of continuing the pivotal movement by additional approx. 450, that part of

                                               42
   the first-flange-facing end face of the second flange 150 establishes contact with
   the inner surface of the respective peripheral wall 12 or 14 at which part the clear
   distance from the opposite end face of the first flange 148 is no longer in changing
   manner a + x, but is constantly a. When the pivotal movement across approx. 900
 5 has been completed, there is thus established face-to-face contact with the inner
   surface of the respective peripheral wall 12 or 14 at that location.
   The aforementioned smallest thickness or smallest diameter of the only
   substantially circular-cylindrical portion 141 of the shaft portion 140 of the coupling
10 element 110 extends in a direction parallel to the orientation of the width c of the
   second flange 150 and is somewhat smaller than the - as measured
   perpendicularly to the formwork skin front side 10 - shorter dimension of the
   respective opening 30 or the respective two openings 30. When the longer
   dimension e of the second flange 150 and the largest thickness or the largest
15 diameter of the portion 141 of the shaft portion 140 are substantially aligned with
   the longitudinal direction of the participating openings 30, the second flange 150
   and the portion 141 of the shaft portion 140 can be inserted conveniently and with
   clearance into the pair of the participating openings 30, even in case the two
   participating formwork panels 2 have some offset from each other in a direction
20 perpendicular to the formwork skin front sides 10. In the subsequent pivotal
   movement of the coupling element 110 by approx. 900, the largest thickness or the
   largest diameter of the portion 141 gradually establishes contact with those central
   portions of the opening circumferential walls 32 of the two participating openings
   30 where the distance of opposing opening circumferential wall portions is smaller
25 than in opening longitudinal direction. The pivotal movement of the coupling
   elements 110 pulls the two participating formwork panels 2 into a front-sides
   aligning position since the largest thickness or the largest diameter of the portion
   141 of the shaft portion 140 only with some play is as large as the respective size
   of the openings 30 of the two participating formwork panels 2, as measured in the
30 central opening portion and perpendicularly to the formwork skin front side 10.
   It is emphasized that the two peripheral walls 12 or 14 of the two participating
   formwork panels 2 can also be clamped together with a certain offset in the
   longitudinal direction of extension of the peripheral walls 12 of 14. Upon
35 completion of the insertion operation described, it is possible to displace the two
   participating peripheral walls 12 or 14 relative to each other by a certain distance

                                             43
   in the longitudinal direction of the peripheral walls 12, 14, and to pivot the
   respective coupling element 110 into the clamping position only thereafter.
   The openings 30 in the peripheral walls 12 and 14 are also suitable for coupling
 5 shuttering accessories there; depending on the configuration of the portion to be
   coupled of the respective shuttering accessory, it is possible to use coupling
   elements as illustrated in Figs. 33 to 35 and described by way of these figures, or
   also modified coupling elements which are each engaged with one of the openings
   30 or with an aligned pair of openings 30. For example, it is possible to use
10 coupling elements having a different flange distance a. As exemplary cases of
   shuttering accessories to be coupled particularly frequently in practical application,
   push-pull props or formwork brackets can be named. However, it is also possible
   to provide an additional connecting or attachment possibility at other locations of
   the supporting structure 4 for shuttering accessories.
15
    It is emphasized that the illustrated and described coupling element 110 with its
   first flange 148 and its second flange 152 indeed constitutes a particularly
   advantageous embodiment of a coupling element 110 used in the invention, but
   that coupling elements of other designs, also with a clamping mechanism different
20 from the wedge surface 156, are usable with the invention as well. However,
   advantageous are coupling elements that cooperate with the openings 30
   described in the peripheral walls 12 and 14 of the respective formwork panel 2 and
   the respective surroundings of the same, as it is possible there in unproblematic
   manner to provide for the necessary local stability or strength of the respective
25 formwork panel 2.
   A tenth embodiment of a formwork panel 2, inclusive of a modification of this
   formwork panel 2, will now be described by way of Figs. 36 to 38.
30 The formwork panel 2 illustrated in Figs. 36 to 38 is joined together from two
   constituent parts, namely a supporting structure 4 and a formwork skin 6 which in
   the instant case is constituted by a single formwork skin element 8. Both the
   supporting structure 4 and the formwork skin element 8 consist completely of
   plastics material in this embodiment.
35
   Each of the two longitudinal edges of the supporting structure 4 is in the
   configuration of a double-walled wall 112, and each of the two transverse edges of

                                            44
   the supporting structure 4 is in the configuration of a double-walled wall 14.
   Between the transverse peripheral walls 14 and parallel to the same, there is a
   transverse intermediate wall 18 of double-walled design, with the distance
   between the partial walls of the latter wall being larger than in case of the
 5 peripheral walls 12 and 14. Between the walls 12, 14, 18 described and
   surrounded by the same, there are formed two large openings 20 each having the
   shape of a quadrangle in plan view and extending in continuous manner from the
   front side 22 to the rear side 24 of the supporting structure 4. Instead of only one
   single transverse intermediate wall 18, as illustrated, there could also be provided
10 several transverse intermediate walls 18.
   Figs. 37 shows that the double walls 12, 14, 18 are closed on the rear side 24 of
   the supporting structure 4 by material portions 26 extending parallel to the
   formwork skin front side 10, whereas they are open at the front side 22 of the
15 supporting structure 4, i.e. they have a space between the partial walls. This
   configuration is referred to as U-shaped cross-section of the double wall. The
   modified embodiment according to Fig. 38 differs from the embodiment according
   to Fig. 37 merely in that the double walls 12, 14, 18, in the respective end portion
   thereof adjacent the front side 22 of the supporting structure 4, each have a wall
20 enlarging flange 28 projecting towards the respective opening 20, as it was
   already described and illustrated with respect to the seventh embodiment
   according to Fig. 29. This configuration is referred to as hat-shaped cross-section
   of the double wall.
25 The rear closing of the space between the partial walls of the transverse
   intermediate wall 18 by the material portion 26 there is substantially continuous
   and possibly is interrupted only by channels 34 and 42 of comparatively small
   cross-section, which are continuous from the front side 22 to the rear side 24 of
   the supporting structure 4, as was already described and illustrated in the
30 preceding embodiments. In the peripheral walls 12, 14, the closing of the space
   between the partial walls by the material portions 26 located there is interrupted to
   a greater extent and so to speak is divided into sections, as illustrated and
   described in more detail in the preceding embodiments.
35 An eleventh embodiment of a formwork panel 2 according to the invention will now
   be described by way of Fig. 39.

                                              45
   The formwork panel 2 illustrated in Fig. 39 is joined together from two constituent
   parts, namely a supporting structure 4 and a formwork skin 6 which in the instant
   case is constituted by a single formwork skin element 8. Both the supporting
   structure 4 and the formwork skin element 8 consist completely of plastics material
 5 in the present embodiment.
   Each of the two longitudinal edges of the supporting structure 4 has the
   configuration of a wall 12, and each of the two transverse edges of the supporting
   structure 4 has the configuration of a wall 14. A longitudinal intermediate wall 16
10 extends approximately centrally from one transverse peripheral wall 12 to the
   other transverse peripheral wall 14 and, at two locations, splits into two
   semicircular arms 200 each. When taking together the two semicircular arms 200
   at each of these two locations, a wall portion in the form of a full circle is
   constituted there which surrounds a circular opening 20. Each of the two openings
15 20 is continuous from the front side 22 to the rear side 24 of the supporting
   structure 4. At the locations without openings 20, the rear side of the supporting
   structure 4 - with the exception of possible channels 34 and 42 - is closed by a
   plate-like material portion 202. The confines of the walls 12, 14, 16 are partly
   shown in broken lines as they are located behind the plate-like material portion
20 202. There may be provided additional intermediate walls which may also extend
   differently, if desired; the number of the openings may be smaller or greater than
   2.
   Differently from the preceding embodiments, the walls 12, 14, 16 in the eleventh
25 embodiment are not in the form of double walls, but as an alternative could be in
   the form of double walls.
   For reasons of simplification, Figs. 36 to 39 do not show how the supporting
   structure 4 and the formwork skin element 8 are connected to each other. In this
30 regard, in particular those types of connection are feasible that have been
   illustrated and described in detail with respect to the preceding embodiments. The
   same applies for the design of the peripheral walls 12, 14 with wall openings 30
   and the related division of the closing material portions 26 of the peripheral walls
    12, 14 in sections, provided that the peripheral walls 12, 14 are double walls.
35

                                           46
  Also in the embodiments according to Figs. 36 to 39, the respective supporting
  structure 4 as well as the respective formwork skin element 8 are each constituted
  by an integral injection-molded component of plastics material or an integral
  compression-molded component of plastics material, i.e. the supporting structure
5 4 as well as the formwork skin element 8 each have a configuration permitting
  manufacture thereof by plastics injection molding or plastics compression molding.

                                            47
                                          CLAIMS
   1. A formwork       panel  for concrete-work shutterings, the formwork         panel
   comprising:
 5     a supporting structure substantially of plastics material, wherein the supporting
   structure comprises peripheral walls, intermediate walls, and openings, which are
   open both towards the front side of the supporting structure and towards the rear
   side of the supporting structure, between said walls;
       wherein at least part of the walls are double walls having two walls which, on
10 the rear side of the supporting structure, are connected to each other in
   substantially continuous manner by a material portion, or are connected to each
   other in sections by material portions;
       and wherein the double walls have, seen in cross-section, a U-shaped
   configuration or a hat-shaped configuration;
15     and comprising a separate formwork skin, which is constituted by a single
   formwork skin element substantially of plastics material or by several formwork
   skin elements substantially of plastics material each;
       wherein the formwork skin is releasably connected to the supporting structure.
20 2.  The formwork panel according to claim 1,
       wherein the peripheral walls are double walls having two walls which, on the
   rear side of the supporting structure, are connected to each other in sections by
   material portions.
25 3.  The formwork panel according to claim 1 or claim 2,
       wherein that the intermediate walls are double walls having two walls which,
   on the rear side of the supporting structure, are connected to each other in
   substantially continuous manner by a material portion.
30 4. The formwork panel according to any one of claims 1 to 3,
       wherein the supporting structure is substantially an integral injection-molded
   component of plastics material or substantially an integral compression-molded
   component of plastics material.
35

                                             48
   5.  The formwork panel according to any one of claims 1 to 4,
       comprising at least one formwork skin element which substantially is an
   integral injection-molded component of plastics material or substantially an integral
   compression-molded component of plastics material.
 5
   6.  The formwork panel according to any one of claims 1 to 5,
       wherein the supporting structure comprises two longitudinal peripheral walls,
   two transverse peripheral walls, longitudinal intermediate walls and transverse
   intermediate walls; and wherein the formwork panel comprises connection sites
10 between the supporting structure and the formwork skin, which are provided at
   locations, where two of the said walls of the supporting structure intersect.
   7.       The formwork panel according to any one of claims 1 to 6,
            wherein at least one formwork skin element has sites of positive female/
15 male engagement with the supporting structure so that possible shear forces
   acting parallel to the formwork skin front side are transferred between the
   respective formwork skin element and the supporting structure.
   8.  The formwork panel according to claim 7,
20     wherein the supporting structure comprises two longitudinal peripheral walls,
   two transverse peripheral walls, longitudinal intermediate walls and transverse
   intermediate walls; and wherein the at least one formwork skin element has sites
   of said positive female/male engagement with the supporting structure, which are
   provided at locations, where two of the said walls of the supporting structure
25 intersect.
   9.  The formwork panel according to any one of claims 1 to 8,
       wherein the plastics material of the supporting structure is of higher strength
   than the plastics material of the single formwork skin element or the plastics
30 material or materials of the several formwork skin elements.
   10. The formwork panel according to claim 9,
       wherein the plastics material of the supporting structure is fiber-reinforced and
   the plastics material of the single formwork skin element or the plastics
35 material/plastic materials of the several formwork skin elements is/are reinforced
   with particles.

                                              49
   11. The formwork panel according to any one of claims 1 to 10,
        wherein the plastics material of at least one formwork skin element is selected
   such that the formwork skin element is nailable.
 5 12. A wall shuttering for concrete work,
        comprising a plurality of coupled formwork panels as specified in any one of
   claims 1 to 11.
   13. A ceiling shuttering for a concrete work,
10      comprising a plurality of formwork panels as specified in any one of claims 1 to
   11.
   14. A method of manufacturing a formwork panel for concrete-work shutterings as
   specified in any one of claims 1 to 11,
15      wherein the supporting structure is injection-molded or compression-molded
   from a plastics material;
        wherein a formwork skin element or a plurality of formwork skin elements
   is/are injection-molded or compression-molded from a plastics material;
        and wherein
20           (a) in the event that the formwork skin is constituted by a single formwork
        skin element, this formwork skin element is releasably attached to the
        supporting structure, or
             (b) in the event that the formwork skin is constituted by several formwork
        skin elements, these several formwork skin elements are releasably attached
25      to the supporting structure.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701> <U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-date>
                            <U+271D>
                                          <U+271E>        <U+271F>
                                    <U+2720>
                   <U+260E><U+2706>
<removed-apn>
                                          <U+2721>        <U+261B>        <U+261E>
                    <U+270C>       <U+270D>                 <U+270E>
                        <U+2714>       <U+2715>         <U+271E>        <U+270F>   <U+2711>    <U+2712><U+2713>
                                    <U+2716>         <U+2717>
                                                  <U+2718><U+2719>
                                                  <U+271A>
                                                       <U+271B><U+271C>
              <U+2722><U+2723>
                                                                <U+2724><U+2725><U+2726>   <U+2727>

     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                <U+2701><U+2702>
<U+2704><U+260E>

                       <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-date>
              <U+260E>                           <U+2706>
<removed-apn>
                  <U+271D><U+271E>                 <U+271F><U+2720>
                             <U+2721><U+261B>
                                              <U+261E><U+270C>
                                  <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
                                     <U+2714><U+2716>
                  <U+2712><U+2713>                 <U+2715>
              <U+2717>                           <U+2718>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>

                                  <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                                            <U+260E><U+2706>
                          <U+271D>       <U+271E>
                      <U+271F>       <U+2720>         <U+2721>
                  <U+261B>       <U+261E>       <U+270C>         <U+270D>
                      <U+270E>       <U+270F>       <U+2711>         <U+270F>
                  <U+2712>       <U+271D>       <U+271E>         <U+2713>       <U+2714>
                              <U+2715>       <U+2716>         <U+2713>       <U+271D>
                          <U+2717>       <U+2718>         <U+2719>       <U+2717>
                                      <U+271A>         <U+271B>
                                  <U+2722>         <U+2723><U+2724><U+2725>
              <U+271C>
              <U+2726>                       <U+2727>         <U+2605>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>

     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701><U+2704>
<U+260E><U+2706>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>

                                  <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                                                 <U+2706>
                          <U+271D>       <U+271E>
                      <U+271F>       <U+2720>          <U+2721>
                  <U+261B>       <U+261E>       <U+270C>          <U+270D>
                      <U+270E>       <U+270F>       <U+2711>          <U+2712>
                  <U+2713>       <U+2714>       <U+2715>          <U+2716>       <U+2717>
                      <U+2718>       <U+2719>       <U+271A>          <U+271B>       <U+271C>
                          <U+2722>       <U+2723>          <U+2724>       <U+2724>       <U+2723>
                              <U+2725>       <U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729>               <U+272A>
              <U+272B>
                                  <U+272C>          <U+272D>
                                      <U+272E>

              <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                         <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>
         <U+2706><U+271D>
<U+271F><U+2720>
<U+2721>
     <U+271E>

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
       <U+260E>
                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2701>
<U+2706><U+271D><U+271E>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>

     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>
<U+2706>
<U+271D><U+271E>

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
      <U+2706><U+271D>
      <U+271E><U+271F>
                                      <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>
<U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
<U+261E><U+270C>

                                       <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>
<removed-date>
                                  <U+271E>
                     <U+2706><U+271D>
                                              <U+271F>       <U+2720>
                                                  <U+2721>       <U+261B>
                                  <U+261E>           <U+2720>       <U+270C>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>            <U+2712>       <U+2713>           <U+2714>       <U+2714>
<removed-apn>
                                  <U+2713>           <U+2716>       <U+2717>       <U+2718>
                          <U+2713>
              <U+2715>       <U+2719>       <U+2720>       <U+2720>           <U+2713>       <U+2717>
                          <U+271A>       <U+2713>   <U+271B><U+271C>      <U+2713>
                                      <U+2713>           <U+2717>
                                  <U+2722>           <U+2723>
                              <U+2722>       <U+2724>

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
<U+260E><U+2706><U+271D>
<U+271E><U+271F>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>
         <U+2706>

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>
    <U+2706><U+271D>
<U+271E>
<U+271F>

     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2706><U+271D>
                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2701>

              <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
         <U+2701><U+2702>
         <U+2704>
     <U+260E>
               <U+2721>
<U+261E>                                        <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720>
               <U+261B>
<U+270C><U+270D>
     <U+270F>
                   <U+270E>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704>

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
                                 <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704>
                         <U+260E><U+2706>
<U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>
                          <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>

                 <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
           <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E>
<U+271F><U+2720><U+2721>
                                            <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704>
                  <U+260E>
<U+261B> <U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D> <U+270E>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701> <U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704>

                                       <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+260E><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                        <U+2721> <U+261B>
                           <U+271F><U+2720>
                   <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270E><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714>
                    <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B> <U+271C> <U+2722> <U+2723> <U+2724> <U+2725><U+2726><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605>
                   <U+2729><U+272A><U+272B>                                       <U+272C><U+272D><U+272E> <U+272F><U+2730><U+2731>
<removed-apn>
                    <U+2732><U+2733><U+2734><U+2733><U+2733> <U+2735> <U+2736> <U+2737> <U+2738> <U+2739><U+273A><U+273B><U+273B><U+273C>
                   <U+273D>                           <U+273E>         <U+273F><U+2740>              <U+2741><U+2742>
              <U+2701>
                        <U+2743><U+2744>        <U+2745><U+2746>                                     <U+2747>
                   <U+2748><U+2749>                          <U+274A>             <U+274D>    <U+274F><U+2751>
                                                   <U+274B><U+25CF>
                                                                   <U+25B2><U+25BC><U+25C6>
                       <U+2756> P                     <U+25D7>        |<U+2759>               <U+275A><U+276F>
              <U+2702><U+2704>                                   <U+2773><U+2768>    <U+2769><U+276C>
                             <U+2771><U+2772>
                             <U+2775>    <U+276B><U+2774>                                <U+276D><U+276A>
                                                              <U+275B><U+275C>
                                                                  <U+275D><U+275E><U+2761>

                  <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2701><U+2702>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                             <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>
                           <U+270E>     <U+270F>
                   <U+260E><U+2706>
              <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2721>
                          <U+2711><U+2712>
                          <U+2713> <U+2714><U+2715>

