ABSTRACT:
[0058]       A universal detachable canopy for a baby carrier including a
canopy body, a canopy frame, and a plurality of attachment members
having at least one end attachable to a textile surface and the
orientation and position of the canopy is changeable/adjustable.
                                   - 18 -

                 DETACHABLE CANOPY FOR BABY CARRIER
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]       This invention relates to protection covers for baby carriers
and more specifically to such covers for front or back wearing backpack
style baby carriers.
[0002]        The present invention relates to a canopy for carriers
adapted to be worn by an adult in order to support and carry an infant
or young child. More particularly, the present invention is directed, but
not limited to an infant carrier wherein the infant is carried in front of
the wearer, either facing or with its back toward the chest of the person
wearing the harness, or diametrically opposite to it, i.e., on the back of
the person to ensure the baby of warmth and heartbeat of the wearer's
body apart from protecting the baby /child from sunrays and other
vagaries of climate.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0003]       The use of a variety of infant carriers for carrying a baby
without the burden of using the parent's hands is quite prevalent.
Amongst these, a recent development is the backpack type of carrier
                                     -1-

that allows the wearer the freedom from the burden of carrying the
baby in their arms, by placing the baby in an upright posture, facing or
backed up to the chest of the wearer or diametrically opposite to it (on
the wearer's back). The carrier has a seat and is sometimes attached to
a frame that is fitted with straps and adapted to be carried on the back
or in front, in a manner similar to a conventional backpack. Such a
design has enjoyed increasing popularity because of the edge over
competitors with regard to their additional convenience besides that of
the ability of the care-giver in carrying increased weight. Thus, it
becomes possible to have extended walks and even off-road hiking by
the care-giver with the baby, sited comfortably and without exhaustion.
However, none of the incorporated design so far, ensures protection of
the baby from the vagaries of weather, other environmental conditions
and other hazards.
[0004]        Despite their innovative design, backpack type carriers
suffer from the problem of non-provisioning of sun protection for the
baby. The apparent assumption is that the baby's apparel will provide
this protection.
[0005]        However, recent research highlights the importance of
protecting babies and infants from sun exposure. Immediate effects of
sunburn can include dehydration, fever, faintness, delirium, shock,
dangerously low blood pressure, and irregular heartbeat. Long term
                                     -2 -

effects increase the risk of skin cancer, wrinkles, and even cataracts in
later life and the damage is cumulative, increasing with each sunburn or
even each exposure. Research indicates that two or more blistering
sunburns as a child or teen increases the risk of skin cancer later in life.
These risks are compounded by the fact that baby's skin is thinner and
will receive a more severe sunburn than an adult's skin. Further, since
babies cannot communicate, a wearer gets no inkling as to whether the
baby is getting too hot or beginning to sunburn. When the baby is
placed in a carrier and placed on the wearer's back, the wearer may not
have an inkling as to the real condition of the infant / baby, arising out
of a developing sunburn.
DESCRIPTION OF RELATED ART
[0006]        Quite a number of existing inventions of similar design are
in vogue; and examples are noted, as follow:
[0007]        KR 101453460 relates to a baby band capable of being
used as a hip seat that can be used both as a baby band and/or a hip
seat based on a combination of components. It is used as a baby band
for smaller babies (up to 100 days old) having limited head reach, and
thereafter used either as a baby band or a hip seat. The baby band
includes an out-pad member where both sides have a shoulder band
                                    - 3-

with a first hand-snap button, the lower end has a first zipper, and both
sides at the front have a second hand-snap button; an in-pad member;
a hip seat member; and a waist member.
[0008]        US 9085930 discloses a system with adjustable fastening
means that provides a removable sun screen to provide shade and/or
UV protection for strollers, car seats, and other carriers for infants and
toddlers.
[0009]        US 5695100 teaches a sunshade device for use with a baby
backpack formed for supporting a baby occupant through two mounting
brackets. The first bracket is coupled to a first frame portion of the baby
backpack and the second bracket is coupled to a second frame portion
of the baby backpack. A flexible, sheet-like sunshade is also included
having a rear end mounted to a rear portion of a rear shade support and
an opposite front end mounted to a portion of a front shade support. In
the open position, the sheet-like sunshade is oriented to extend
vertically over the occupant for shielding thereof, while in the closed
position, the sunshade can be selectively closed rearwardly of the
occupant to enable easy ingress and egress from the backpack.
[0010]        The presence of these above carriers and others in the
market, has also increased the need for an universal canopy capable of
protecting the baby closely from all weather conditions yet having the
                                     -4-

comfortability and flexibility of position and coverage area. These and
other objects of the present invention can be understood from the
following objects and description of the present invention
OBJECTS OF THE PRESENT INVENTION
[0011]       It is an object of the present invention is to provide an
improved canopy for a baby carrier for protecting the baby from the
vagaries of weather.
[0012]       Another object of the present invention is to provide a
canopy for a baby carrier for protecting the baby from sunburns.
[0013]       Still another object of the present invention is to provide a
canopy for a baby carrier in which the hood of the canopy is simple and
easy to use.
[0014]       Yet another object of the present invention is to provide a
canopy for a baby carrier in which the canopy is detachable from the
carrier.
[0015]       A further object of the present invention is to provide a
canopy for a baby carrier, wherein the orientation can be
adjusted/changed according to the requirement of the baby.
                                     - 5-

[0016]       Another object of the present invention is to provide a
canopy for a baby carrier in which the position can be adjusted
according to the requirement of the wearer.
[0017]       Another object of the present invention is to provide a
canopy for a baby carrier whereby the canopy is revolvable between a
fully coverable to a fully closed state with three intermediate (closed,
opened or semi closed) positions possible, .
[0018]       Another object of the present invention is to provide a
canopy for a baby carrier in which the hood of the canopy does not
interfere with a child's movement apart from not touching his/her head.
[0019]       Another object of the present invention is to provide a
canopy for baby carrier in which the hood of the canopy is of simple
construction.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0020]       A universal detachable canopy for a baby carrier including a
canopy body, a canopy frame, and a plurality of attachment members
having at least one end attachable to a textile surface and the
orientation and position of the canopy is changeable/adjustable.
                                     - 6-

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0021]       The present invention will be described in more detail
hereinafter with the aid of the description which relates to preferred
embodiments of the invention explained with reference to the
accompanying drawings, in which:
[0022]       Figure 1 illustrates a detachable canopy in accordance with
embodiments of the present invention.
[0023]       Figure 2 depicts a canopy frame of the present invention.
[0024]       Figure 3 depicts the detachable canopy of the present
invention in a fully closed position.
[0025]       Figure 4 depicts the detachable canopy of the present
invention in a semi closed position.
[0026]       Figure 5 depicts a side view of the canopy of the present
invention on a baby carrier in a semi closed position, when the baby
faces the wearer.
[0027]       Figure 6 depicts a side view of the canopy of the present
invention on the baby carrier in a fully outspread position, when the
baby faces the wearer.
                                     -7-

[0028]        Figure 7 depicts the canopy of the present invention on the
baby carrier in a fully outspread position illustrating the various
positions of the various attachment members and in various positions
giving a proper orientation to the canopy when the baby faces the
wearer.
[0029]        Figure 8 depicts the canopy of the present invention on the
baby carrier in a fully outspread position facing the wearer with a pair of
clip like attachment member and an attachment member with strap.
[0030]        Figure 9 depicts the front view of the canopy of the present
invention on the carrier in a semi closed position having a pair of
attachment members.
[0031]        Figure 10 depicts the canopy of the present invention on
the carrier facing forward in a semi closed position having a pair of clip
like attachment members and an additional attachment member with
strap.
[0032]        Figure 11 depicts the canopy of the present invention on
the carrier facing forward in a semi closed position having a pair of clip
like attachment members and a pair of attachment members with strap
fixed to the shoulder pads.
[0033]        Figure 12 illustrates the canopy of the present invention on
the carrier facing the wearer and connected with the carrier by a pair of
                                      -8-

attachment means having attachment members with straps in a loose
position.
[0034]        Figure 13 illustrates the canopy of the present invention
with the carrier facing forward and connected with the attachment
members with straps.
[0035]        Figure 14 illustrates some of the various forms of the
attachment members used in the present invention.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0036]        Referring to the drawings, wherein like numerals indicate
like elements, a universal detachable canopy for a baby carrier is shown.
The canopy protects a baby closely from all sides from various weather
conditions. The universal detachable canopy includes: a canopy body
 10; a canopy frame 20; and a plurality of attachment members 30.
[0037]        The canopy body 10 is preferably formed of multiple panels
of flexible, sheet material 1] and is movable between an uncovering
position in which the child in the child carrier 32 is exposed and a
covering position in which the canopy extends from the back region to
the front of the child carrier 32 to fully cover the baby, thus protecting
the baby from all sides.
                                      - 9-

[0038]        A hood 12 of the canopy body 10 has two faces or portions,
a forward portion or forward face 13 and a rearward portion or rearward
face 14, as well as two sides that cover the arms of the ribs of an
inverted "U" shaped member, which generally covers the child's head
from the sides. The forward face 13 is the portion of the hood 12 that
covers the face of the child; and the rearward face 14 covers the back of
the child.
[0039]        The canopy frame 20 is formed of a plurality of generally
inverted "U" shaped ribs or struts 21, which continue along three sides,
and when mounted have free ends brought together like a cluster (not
visible in the figure).
[0040]        Thus, the canopy body 10 along with the panels of flexible
sheet material 11, being supported by the ribs/strut 21, infolds between
the ribs, when the ribs or struts are brought together, thus facilitating
total closure of the canopy body 10.
[0041]        The canopy body 10 can be used in a number of adjustable
positions starting from a fully outspread position, shielding the baby
totally; or in a semi open position to a fully collapsible position, when
the baby is fully uncovered.
                                    - 10 -

[0042]        At the same time, the amount of extension or out fold of
the hood 12 of the canopy body 10 can be adjusted or changed from
time to time as the rays of the sun or other factors may dictate.
[0043]        Fig. 1 shows an embodiment where the opening and closure
of the canopy body 10 can be accomplished by providing a string 22,
connected with the ribs or struts 21 of the canopy frame 20 in the
middle and having a locking mechanism to control the same.
[0044]        One of the utilities of the canopy of the present invention is
that it can be attached to any type of carrier and the baby can be placed
in any position, be it facing the wearer or facing forward.
[0045]        The flexible sheet material 11 of the canopy body can be
attached to the flexible/ rigid frame 20 of the body either by stitching,
using laces or straps, when the material for the body of the frame, used
is flexible. However, when the material used is rigid, it can either be
glued or welded.
[0046]        The frame 20 can be made of a flexible material like plastic,
metal, composite material, elastomer and even wood.
[0047]        In some embodiment of the present invention, when the
material for the body of the frame 20 used is rigid, a special casing or
housing for the frame can be provided for, to obviate the exposure of
the frame.
                                      - 11 -

[0048]       As mentioned above, the canopy can be placed in a number
of positions depending upon the position of the child and according to
the environment. This is achieved by the presence of a plurality of
attachment members 30. These attachment members 30 can be in the
form of spring clips, hook and loop fasteners, a hook, a locking clip or
any other similar mechanism and straps 31.
[0049]       The attachment members 30 are designed in a way that
they are able to link/attach with the varied carrier styles and in any
place and position either with the carrier 32 itself or with garments of
the wearer.
[0050]       The attachment members 30 of the canopy body 10 are
linked /attached at one end with the canopy body itself and the other
end can be linked to any garment of the wearer or with the shoulder pad
33 of the carrier 32 or any other member of the carrier.
[0051]       In some embodiments of the present invention, the
attachment members 30 are provided with a strap 31, wherein one end
the attachment members 30 are linked with the strap 31 provided on
the canopy body 10; and at the other end, linked with the baby carrier
32, thus giving the canopy better functionality.
[0052]       The provision of strap 31 with the attachment members 30
of the canopy body 10, gives the canopy body the functionality of
                                    - 12 -

attaching to any type of carrier and in any orientation, thereby
increasing its flexibility.
[0053]       Figures 5 and 6 show embodiments of the canopy wherein
the canopy body 10 is placed on a child carrier 32, which is positioned
facing the wearer. The canopy body 10 is attached to the carrier 32 with
the help of a pair of two attachment members 30 on the sides of the
canopy body 10, which can be hook and loop fasteners, springing clips,
a hook a locking clip or any other mechanism. The hood 12 of the
canopy body 10 is positionable over the baby's head in the semi closed
position (figure 5) and in a fully open position (figure 6).
[0054]       In some embodiments, as shown in figure 11, the canopy
body 10 is placed on a child carrier 32, which is positioned facing
forward, wherein the canopy body 10 is attached with the carrier 32 with
the help of a pair of attachment members 30 on the sides of the canopy
body 10. The attachment members can be hook and loop fasteners,
springing clips, a hook a locking clip or any other mechanism and with a
pair of attachment members 30 with straps 31 clipped at the back of the
shoulder pads 33 of the carrier 32 wherein the hood 12 of the canopy
body 10 is positionable over the baby's head in a semi closed position.
[0055]       Another embodiment of the present invention is described
with reference to figure 10 wherein the canopy body 10 is placed on a
                                     - 13 -

child carrier 32, which is positioned facing forward. The canopy body 10
is attached on the sides of the carrier 32 with the carrier shoulder pads
33 of the carrier 32 with the help of a pair of attachment members 30,
which can be a hook and loop fasteners, springing clips, a hook, a
locking clip or any other mechanism and with an additional attachment
member 30 with strap 31 clipped at the back of the shoulder pad 33 of
the carrier 32, wherein the hood 12 of the canopy body 10 is
positionable over the baby's head in semi closed position.
[0056]        In another embodiment of the present invention as
described with reference to figure 10 the canopy body 10 is placed on a
child carrier, which is positioned facing forward. The canopy body 10 is
attached on the sides of the carrier 32 with the carrier shoulder pads 33
of the carrier 32 with the help of a pair of attachment members 30,
which can be hook and loop and fasteners, springing clips, a hook a
locking clip or any other mechanism and with an additional attachment
members with strap 31 clipped at, with the garment of the wearer,
wherein the hood 12 of the canopy body 10 is positionable over the
baby's head in semi closed position.
[0057]        The above description is considered for that of the
preferred embodiments only. It should be understood that various
changes and modifications to the preferred embodiments described
herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Therefore, it is
                                    - 14 -

understood that the embodiments shown in the drawings and described
above are merely for illustrative purposes and are not intended to limit
the scope of the invention, which is defined by the following claims.
                                   - 15 -

CLAIMS
1.     A universal detachable canopy for a baby carrier comprising:
              a canopy body;
              a canopy frame; and
              a plurality of attachment members,
wherein said attachment members have at least one end configured to
be attachable to any textile, textile like or other material surface.
2.     The canopy of claim 1, wherein said canopy body, is formed of
single panel of flexible sheet material movable between an uncovering
position; a semi covering position; and a fully covering position over the
baby carrier.
3.     The canopy of claim 1, wherein said canopy body, is formed of
multiple panels of flexible sheet material movable between an
uncovering position; a semi covering position; and a fully covering
position over the baby carrier.
4.     The canopy of claim 1, wherein said canopy body is formed of
multiple panels of rigid material and is movable between an uncovering
position; a semi covering position; and a fully covering position over the
baby carrier.
5.     The canopy of claim 1, wherein the canopy is adjustable to
different orientations and positions according to the requirement.
                                     - 16 -

6.     The canopy of claim 1, wherein said canopy frame is formed of a
plurality of generally inverted "U" shaped ribs or struts.
7.     The canopy of claim 1, wherein said canopy frame is made of a
flexible plastic material.
8.     The canopy of claim 1, wherein said canopy frame is made of a
flexible composite material.
9.     The canopy of claim 1, wherein said canopy frame is made of
metal.
10.    The canopy of claim 1, wherein the canopy frame is made of
wood.
11.    The canopy of claim 1, wherein said attachment members are at
least three attachment members.
12.    The canopy of claim 1], wherein at least one of said at least three
attachment members is provided with a strap.
                                     - 17 -

                   Osnat Peleg
                                           1/7
                                      Sheet 1 of 7
<removed-date>
                                 10
                                            11
<removed-apn>
              13                                               30
                                                               22
                                                          31
                                                     14
                                       Figure 1

              Osnat Peleg
                                              2/7
                                        Sheet 2 of 7
<removed-date>                                             20
                        21   <U+2724> <U+2701> <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704><U+2701> <U+2739><U+260E><U+2706>
<removed-apn>
                                             Figure 2
                                             12
                                             Figure 3

              Osnat Peleg
                                  3/7 3 of 7
                                 Sheet
<removed-date>
                                                    30
<removed-apn>
                                  Figure 4
                                               30
                            32
                                  Figure 5

              Osnat Peleg
                                           4/7
                                       Sheet 4 of 7
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                          Figure 6
                            Figure 7                  Figure 8

              Osnat Peleg
                              5/7
                            Sheet 5 of 7
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                             Figure 9
                             Figure 10

              Osnat Peleg
                                       6/7
                                      Sheet 6 of 7
<removed-date>
                                                     30
<removed-apn>
                                                     33
                                       Figure 11
                            31
                                 30
                                       Figure 12

              Osnat Peleg
                             7/7
                            Sheet 7 of 7
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                             Figure 13
                             Figure 14

