THE USE OF INHIBITORS OF BRUTON'S TYROSINE KINASE (BTK)
ABSTRACT
Disclosed herein are methods for treating a cancer comprising: a. administering a Btk inhibitor to
a subject sufficient to result in an increase or appearance in the blood of a subpopulation of
lymphocytes defined by immunophenotyping; b. determining the expression profile of one or
more biomarkers from one or more subpopulation of lymphocytes; and c. administering a second
agent based on the determined expression profile.

                                                  1
         THE USE OF INHIBITORS OF BRUTON'S TYROSINE KINASE (BTK)
                                    RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001] This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2015275321
which in turn is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2011261185 (national
phase of PCT/US 2011/039190) and claims the benefit of priority from U.S. Provisional
Patent Application No. 61/35 1,130, filed June 3, 2010; U.S. Provisional Patent Application
No. 61/35 1,655, filed June 4, 2010; U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61/35 1,793, filed
June 4, 2010; U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61/35 1,762, filed June 4, 2010; U.S.
Provisional Patent Application No. 61/419,764, filed December 3, 2010; and U.S. Provisional
Patent Application No. 61/472,138, filed April 5, 2011; all of which are herein incorporated
by reference in their entirety.
                            BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002] Bruton's tyrosine kinase (Btk), a member of the Tec family of non-receptor tyrosine
kinases, is a key signaling enzyme expressed in all hematopoietic cells types except T
lymphocytes and natural killer cells. Btk plays an essential role in the B-cell signaling
pathway linking cell surface B-cell receptor (BCR) stimulation to downstream intracellular
responses.
[0003] Btk is a key regulator of B-cell development, activation, signaling, and survival
(Kurosaki, Curr Op Imm, 2000, 276-28 1; Schaeffer and Schwartzberg, Curr Op Imm 2000,
282-288). In addition, Btk plays a role in a number of other hematopoietic cell signaling
pathways, e.g., Toll like receptor (TLR) and cytokine receptor-mediated TNF-a production in
macrophages, IgE receptor (FcepsilonRI) signaling in Mast cells, inhibition of Fas/APO-1
apoptotic signaling in B-lineage lymphoid cells, and collagen-stimulated platelet aggregation.
See, e.g., C. A. Jeffries, et al., (2003), JournalofBiological Chemistry 278:26258-26264; N.
J. Horwood, et al., (2003), The JournalofExperimentalMedicine 197:1603-1611; Iwaki et
al. (2005), JournalofBiological Chemistry 280(48):40261-40270; Vassilev et al. (1999),
JournalofBiological Chemistry 274(3): 1646-1656, and Quek et al. (1998), Current Biology
8(20): 1137-1140.
(16117633 1):GGG

                                                la
                            SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0004] Disclosed herein, in certain embodiments, is a method for treating a hematological
malignancy in an individual in need thereof, comprising: (a) administering to the individual
an amount of an irreversible Btk inhibitor sufficient to mobilize a plurality of cells from the
malignancy; and (b) analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells. In some embodiments, the
amount of the irreversible Btk inhibitor is sufficient to induce lymphocytosis of a plurality of
cells from the malignancy. In some embodiments, the hematological malignancy is CLL. In
some embodiments, the treating the hematological malignancy comprises managing the
(16117633 1):GGG

    hematological malignancy. In some embodiments, the hematological malignancy is a B-cell
    malignancy. In some embodiments, the hematological malignancy is a leukemia,
    lymphoproliferative disorder, or myeloid. In some embodiments, the mobilized cells are myeloid
    cells or lymphoid cells. In some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells
  5 comprises measuring the peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells. In
    some embodiments, the method further comprises administering a second cancer treatment
    regimen after the peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells increases as
    compared to the concentration before administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments,
    administering the second cancer treatment regimen occurs after a subsequent decrease in
 to peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells. In some embodiments,
    analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells comprises measuring the duration of an increase in the
    peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells as compared to the
    concentration before administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, the method
    further comprises administering a second cancer treatment regimen after the peripheral blood
 [5 concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells has increased for a predetermined length of
    time. In some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells comprises counting the
    number of mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood. In some embodiments, the
    method further comprises administering a second cancer treatment regimen after the number of
    mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood increases as compared to the concentration
 !o before administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, administering the second
    cancer treatment regimen occurs after a subsequent decrease in the number of mobilized
    plurality of cells in the peripheral blood. In some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized
    plurality of cells comprises measuring the duration of an increase in the number of mobilized
    plurality of cells in the peripheral blood as compared to the number before administration of the
25  Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, the method further comprises administering a second
    cancer treatment regimen after the number of mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood
    has increased for a predetermined length of time. In some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized
    plurality of cells comprises preparing a biomarker profile for a population of cells isolated from
    the plurality of cells, wherein the biomarker profile indicates the expression of a biomarker, the
30  expression level of a biomarker, mutations in a biomarker, or the presence of a biomarker. In
    some embodiments, the biomarker is any cytogenetic, cell surface molecular or protein or RNA
    expression marker. In some embodiments, the biomarker is: ZAP70; t(14,18); 3-2
    microglobulin; p53 mutational status; ATM mutational status; del(17)p; del(11)q; del(6)q; CD5;
    CD1 Ic; CD19; CD20; CD22; CD25; CD38; CD103; CD138; secreted, surface or cytoplasmic
35  immunoglobulin expression; VH mutational status; or a combination thereof. In some
                                                      2

    embodiments, the method further comprises providing a second cancer treatment regimen based
    on the biomarker profile. In some embodiments, the method further comprises not administering
    based on the biomarker profile. In some embodiments, the method further comprises predicting
    the efficacy of a treatment regimen based on the biomarker profile. In some embodiments, the
  5 hematological malignancy is a chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), small lymphocytic
    lymphoma (SLL), high risk CLL, or a non-CLL/SLL lymphoma. In some embodiments, the
    hematological malignancy is follicular lymphoma, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL),
    mantle cell lymphoma, Waldenstrom's macro globulinemia, multiple myeloma, marginal zone
    lymphoma, Burkitt's lymphoma, non-Burkitt high grade B cell lymphoma, or extranodal
 to marginal zone B cell lymphoma. In some embodiments, the hematological malignancy is
    chronic myelogenous (or myeloid) leukemia, or acute lymphoblastic leukemia. In some
    embodiments, the hematological malignancy is relapsed or refractory diffuse large B-cell
    lymphoma (DLBCL), relapsed or refractory mantle cell lymphoma, relapsed or refractory
    follicular lymphoma, relapsed or refractory CLL; relapsed or refractory SLL; relapsed or
 [5 refractory multiple myeloma. In some embodiments, the Btk inhibitor forms a covalent bond
    with a cysteine sidechain of a Bruton's tyrosine kinase, a Bruton's tyrosine kinase homolog, or a
    Btk tyrosine kinase cysteine homolog. In some embodiments, the irreversible Btk inhibitor is
    (R)-1-(3-(4-amino-3-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-1H-pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidin-1-yl)piperidin-1-yl)prop
    2-en-I-one. In some embodiments, the amount of the irreversible Btk inhibitor is from 300
 !0 mg/day up to, and including, 1000 mg/day. In some embodiments, the amount of the irreversible
    Btk inhibitor is from 420 mg/day up to, and including, 840 mg/day. In some embodiments, the
    amount of the irreversible Btk inhibitor is about 420 mg/day, about 560 mg/day, or about 840
    mg/day. In some embodiments, the amount of the irreversible Btk inhibitor is about 420 mg/day.
    In some embodiments, the AUCO- 24 of the Btk inhibitor is between about 150 and about 3500
25  ng*h/mL. In some embodiments, the AUCO- 24 of the Btk inhibitor is between about 500 and
    about 1100 ng*h/mL. In some embodiments, the Btk inhibitor is administered orally. In some
    embodiments, the Btk inhibitor is administered once per day, twice per day, or three times per
    day. In some embodiments, the Btk inhibitor is administered until disease progression,
    unacceptable toxicity, or individual choice. In some embodiments, the Btk inhibitor is
30  administered daily until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or individual choice. In some
    embodiments, the Btk inhibitor is administered every other day until disease progression,
    unacceptable toxicity, or individual choice. In some embodiments, the Btk inhibitor is a front
    line therapy, second line therapy, third line therapy, fourth line therapy, fifth line therapy, or
                                                        3

    sixth line therapy. In some embodiments, the Btk inhibitor treats a refractory hematological
    malignancy. In some embodiments, the Btk inhibitor is a maintenance therapy. In some
    embodiments, the second cancer treatment regimen comprises a chemotherapeutic agent, a
    steroid, an immunotherapeutic agent, a targeted therapy, or a combination thereof In some
  5 embodiments, the second cancer treatment regimen comprises a B cell receptor pathway
    inhibitor. In some embodiments, the B cell receptor pathway inhibitor is a CD79A inhibitor, a
    CD79B inhibitor, a CD19 inhibitor, a Lyn inhibitor, a Syk inhibitor, a P13K inhibitor, a Blnk
    inhibitor, a PLCy inhibitor, a PKC inhibitor, or a combination thereof In some embodiments,
    the second cancer treatment regimen comprises an antibody, B cell receptor signaling inhibitor,
 to a P13K inhibitor, an IAP inhibitor, an mTOR inhibitor, a radioimmunotherapeutic, a DNA
    damaging agent, a proteosome inhibitor, a histone deacetylase inhibitor, a protein kinase
    inhibitor, a hedgehog inhibitor, an Hsp90 inhibitor, a telomerase inhibitor, a Jakl/2 inhibitor, a
    protease inhibitor, a PKC inhibitor, a PARP inhibitor, or a combination thereof In some
    embodiments, the second cancer treatment regimen comprises chlorambucil, ifosphamide,
  5 doxorubicin, mesalazine, thalidomide, lenalidomide, temsirolimus, everolimus, fludarabine,
    fostamatinib, paclitaxel, docetaxel, ofatumumab, rituximab, dexamethasone, prednisone, CAL
    101, ibritumomab, tositumomab, bortezomib, pentostatin, endostatin, or a combination thereof
    In some embodiments, the second cancer treatment regimen comprises cyclophosphamide,
    hydroxydaunorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone, and optionally, rituximab. In some
 !o embodiments, the second cancer treatment regimen comprises bendamustine, and rituximab. In
    some embodiments, the second cancer treatment regimen comprises fludarabine,
    cyclophosphamide, and rituximab. In some embodiments, the second cancer treatment regimen
    comprises cyclophosphamide, vincristine, and prednisone, and optionally, rituximab. In some
    embodiments, the second cancer treatment regimen comprises etoposide, doxorubicin, vinristine,
25  cyclophosphamide, prednisolone, and optionally, rituximab. In some embodiments, the second
    cancer treatment regimen comprises dexamethasone and lenalidomide. In some embodiments,
    the inhibitor of Bruton's tyrosine kinase is a reversible inhibitor. In some embodiments, the
    inhibitor of Bruton's tyrosine kinase is an irreversible inhibitor. In some embodiments, the
    inhibitor of Bruton's tyrosine kinase forms a covalent bond with a cysteine sidechain of a
30  Bruton's tyrosine kinase, a Bruton's tyrosine kinase homolog, or a Btk tyrosine kinase cysteine
    homolog. In some embodiments, the inhibitor of Bruton's tyrosine kinase has the structure of
    Formula (D):
                                                        4

                                                              Ar
                                               NH2
                                           N         \
                                               N       N
                                                         Z8      R,
                                                 Formula (D)
    wherein:
    La is CH 2 , 0, NH or S;
  5 Ar is a substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or a substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl;
    Y is an optionally substituted group selected from among alkyl, heteroalkyl, cycloalkyl,
    heterocycloalkyl, aryl, and heteroaryl;
    Z is C(=0), OC(=0), NHC(=0), C(=S), S(=0)x, OS(=0)x, NHS(=0)x, where x is 1 or 2;
    R7 and Rs are independently H; or
 t0 R 7 and Rs taken together form a bond;
    R 6 is H; and pharmaceutically active metabolites, or pharmaceutically acceptable solvates,
    pharmaceutically acceptable salts, or pharmaceutically acceptable prodrugs thereof. In some
    embodiments, the Bruton's tyrosine kinase inhibitor is (R)-1-(3-(4-amino-3-(4-phenoxyphenyl)
    1H-pyrazolo [3,4-d]pyrimidin- 1-yl)piperidin- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one. In some embodiments, La is
15  0. In some embodiments, Ar is phenyl. In some embodiments, Z is C(=0), NHC(=0), or
    S(=0) 2 . In some embodiments, each of R7 and Rs is H. In some embodiments, Y is a 4-, 5-, 6-,
    or 7-membered cycloalkyl ring; or Y is a 4-, 5-, 6-, or 7-membered heterocycloalkyl ring.
    [0005] Disclosed herein, in certain embodiments, is a method for treating relapsed or refractory
    non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in an individual in need thereof, comprising: administering to the
20  individual a therapeutically-effective amount of (R)- 1-(3 -(4-amino-3 -(4-phenoxyphenyl)- 1H
    pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidin- 1-yl)piperidin- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one. In some embodiments, the non
    Hodgkin's lymphoma is relapsed or refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL),
    relapsed or refractory mantle cell lymphoma, or relapsed or refractory follicular lymphoma. In
    some embodiments, the amount of (R)-1-(3-(4-amino-3-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-1H-pyrazolo[3,4
25  d]pyrimidin-1-yl)piperidin-1-yl)prop-2-en-1-one is from 300 mg/day up to, and including, 1000
    mg/day. In some embodiments, the amount of (R)-1-(3-(4-amino-3-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-1H
    pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidin-1-yl)piperidin-1-yl)prop-2-en-1-one is from 420 mg/day up to, and
                                                          5

    including, 840 mg/day. In some embodiments, the amount of (R)-1-(3-(4-amino-3-(4
    phenoxyphenyl)- 1H-pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidin- 1-yl)piperidin-1 -yl)prop-2-en-1-one is about 420
    mg/day, about 560 mg/day, or about 840 mg/day. In some embodiments, the amount of the
    irreversible Btk inhibitor is about 420 mg/day. In some embodiments, the AUCO- 2 4 of the Btk
  5 inhibitor is between about 150 and about 3500 ng*h/mL. In some embodiments, the AUCO- 2 4 of
    the Btk inhibitor is between about 500 and about 1100 ng*h/mL. In some embodiments, (R)-1
    (3 -(4-amino-3 -(4-phenoxyphenyl)- 1H-pyrazolo [3,4-d]pyrimidin- 1-yl)piperidin- 1-yl)prop-2-en
    1-one is administered orally. In some embodiments, (R)-1-(3-(4-amino-3-(4-phenoxyphenyl)
    1H-pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidin- 1-yl)piperidin- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one is administered once per day,
 t0 twice per day, or three times per day. In some embodiments, (R)-1-(3-(4-amino-3-(4
    phenoxyphenyl)- 1H-pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidin- 1-yl)piperidin-1 -yl)prop-2-en-1-one is
    administered until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or individual choice. In some
    embodiments, (R)-1-(3-(4-amino-3-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-1H-pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidin-1
    yl)piperidin-1-yl)prop-2-en-1-one is administered until disease progression, unacceptable
 t5 toxicity, or individual choice. In some embodiments, (R)-1-(3-(4-amino-3-(4-phenoxyphenyl)
    1H-pyrazolo [3,4-d]pyrimidin- 1-yl)piperidin- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one is administered daily until
    disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or individual choice. In some embodiments, (R)-1
    (3 -(4-amino-3 -(4-phenoxyphenyl)- 1H-pyrazolo [3,4-d]pyrimidin- 1-yl)piperidin- 1-yl)prop-2-en
    1-one is administered every other day until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or
 !o individual choice. In some embodiments, (R)-1-(3-(4-amino-3-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-1H
    pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidin-1-yl)piperidin-1-yl)prop-2-en-1-one is a second line therapy, third line
    therapy, fourth line therapy, fifth line therapy, or sixth line therapy. In some embodiments, the
    Btk inhibitor is a maintenance therapy. In some embodiments, the method further comprises
    administering a second cancer treatment regimen. In some embodiments, the second cancer
25  treatment regimen is administered after mobilization of a plurality of lymphoid cells from the
    non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. In some embodiments, the second cancer treatment regimen is
    administered after lymphocytosis of a plurality of lymphoid cells from the non-Hodgkin's
    lymphoma. In some embodiments, the second cancer treatment regimen comprises a
    chemotherapeutic agent, a steroid, an immunotherapeutic agent, a targeted therapy, or a
30  combination thereof. In some embodiments, the second cancer treatment regimen comprises a B
    cell receptor pathway inhibitor. In some embodiments, the B cell receptor pathway inhibitor is a
    CD79A inhibitor, a CD79B inhibitor, a CD19 inhibitor, a Lyn inhibitor, a Syk inhibitor, a P13K
    inhibitor, a Blnk inhibitor, a PLCy inhibitor, a PKCP inhibitor, or a combination thereof. In
                                                          6

    some embodiments, the second cancer treatment regimen comprises an antibody, B cell receptor
    signaling inhibitor, a P13K inhibitor, an IAP inhibitor, an mTOR inhibitor, a
    radioimmunotherapeutic, a DNA damaging agent, a proteosome inhibitor, a histone deacetylase
    inhibitor, a protein kinase inhibitor, a hedgehog inhibitor, an Hsp90 inhibitor, a telomerase
  5 inhibitor, a Jakl/2 inhibitor, a protease inhibitor, a PKC inhibitor, a PARP inhibitor, or a
    combination thereof. In some embodiments, the second cancer treatment regimen comprises
    chlorambucil, ifosphamide, doxorubicin, mesalazine, thalidomide, lenalidomide, temsirolimus,
    everolimus, fludarabine, fostamatinib, paclitaxel, docetaxel, ofatumumab, rituximab,
    dexamethasone, prednisone, CAL-101, ibritumomab, tositumomab, bortezomib, pentostatin,
 t0 endostatin, or a combination thereof. In some embodiments, the second cancer treatment
    regimen comprises cyclophosphamide, hydroxydaunorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone, and
    optionally, rituximab. In some embodiments, the second cancer treatment regimen comprises
    bendamustine, and rituximab. In some embodiments, the second cancer treatment regimen
    comprises fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, and rituximab. In some embodiments, the second
 [5 cancer treatment regimen comprises cyclophosphamide, vincristine, and prednisone, and
    optionally, rituximab. In some embodiments, the second cancer treatment regimen comprises
    etoposide, doxorubicin, vinristine, cyclophosphamide, prednisolone, and optionally, rituximab.
    In some embodiments, the second cancer treatment regimen comprises dexamethasone and
    lenalidomide.
 !0 [0006] Disclosed herein, in certain embodiments, is a method for treating diffuse large B-cell
    lymphoma, activated B cell-like subtype (ABC-DLBCL), in an individual in need thereof,
    comprising: administering to the individual an irreversible Btk inhibitor in an amount from 300
    mg/day up to, and including, 1000 mg/day. In some embodiments, the method further comprises
    diagnosing the individual with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, activated B cell-like subtype
25  (ABC-DLBCL), by determining the gene sequence of one or more biomarkers in a plurality of
    lymphoid cells isolated from the diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. In some embodiments, the
    irreversible Btk inhibitor is (R)- 1-(3 -(4-amino-3 -(4-phenoxyphenyl)- 1H-pyrazolo [3,4
    d]pyrimidin- 1-yl)piperidin- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one. In some embodiments, the ABC-DLBCL is
    characterized by a CD79B mutation. In some embodiments, the CD79B mutation is a mutation
30  of the immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif (ITAM) signaling module. In some
    embodiments, the CD79B mutation is a missense mutation of the first immunoreceptor tyrosine
    based activation motif (ITAM) tyrosine. In some embodiments, the CD79B mutation increases
    surface BCR expression and attenuates Lyn kinase activity. In some embodiments, the ABC
                                                          7

    DLBCL is characterized by a CD79A mutation. In some embodiments, the CD79A mutation is
    in the immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif (ITAM) signaling module. In some
    embodiments, the CD79A mutation is a splice-donor-site mutation of the immunoreceptor
    tyrosine-based activation motif (ITAM) signaling module. In some embodiments, the CD79A
  5 mutation deletes the immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif (ITAM) signaling module.
    In some embodiments, the ABC-DLBCL is characterized by a mutation in MyD88, A20, or a
    combination thereof. In some embodiments, the MyD88 mutation is the amino acid substitution
    L265P in the MYD88 Toll/IL-i receptor (TIR) domain. In some embodiments, the amount of
    the irreversible Btk inhibitor is from 420 mg/day up to, and including, 840 mg/day. In some
 to embodiments, the amount of the irreversible Btk inhibitor is about 420 mg/day, about 560
    mg/day, or about 840 mg/day. In some embodiments, the amount of the irreversible Btk
    inhibitor is about 420 mg/day. In some embodiments, the AUCO-24 of the Btk inhibitor is
    between about 150 and about 3500 ng*h/mL. In some embodiments, the AUCO- 24 of the Btk
    inhibitor is between about 500 and about 1100 ng*h/mL. In some embodiments, the irreversible
 [5 Btk inhibitor is administered orally. In some embodiments, the irreversible Btk inhibitor is
    administered daily until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or individual choice. In some
    embodiments, the irreversible Btk inhibitor is administered every other day until disease
    progression, unacceptable toxicity, or individual choice. In some embodiments, the irreversible
    Btk inhibitor is a front line therapy, second line therapy, third line therapy, fourth line therapy,
 !o fifth line therapy, or sixth line therapy. In some embodiments, the irreversible Btk inhibitor
    treats a refractory hematological malignancy. In some embodiments, the irreversible Btk
    inhibitor is a maintenance therapy. In some embodiments, the method further comprises
    administering at least one additional cancer treatment regimen. In some embodiments, the
    additional cancer treatment regimen comprises a chemotherapeutic agent, an immunotherapeutic
25  agent, a steroid, radiation therapy, a targeted therapy, or a combination thereof In some
    embodiments, the second cancer treatment regimen comprises an antibody, B cell receptor
    signaling inhibitor, a P13K inhibitor, an IAP inhibitor, an mTOR inhibitor, a
    radioimmunotherapeutic, is a damaging agent, a proteosome inhibitor, a histone deacetylase
    inhibitor, a protein kinase inhibitor, a hedgehog inhibitor, an Hsp90 inhibitor, a telomerase
30  inhibitor, a Jakl/2 inhibitor, a protease inhibitor, a PKC inhibitor, a PARP inhibitor, or a
    combination thereof
    [0007] Disclosed herein, in certain embodiments, is a method of determining a cancer treatment
    regimen for an individual with a hematological malignancy, comprising: (a) administering to the
                                                          8

    individual an amount of an irreversible Btk inhibitor sufficient to mobilize a plurality of cells
    from the malignancy; (b) analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells; and (c) selecting a cancer
    treatment regimen. In some embodiments, the cancer treatment regimen comprises a
    chemotherapeutic agent, a steroid, an immunotherapeutic agent, a targeted therapy, or a
  5 combination thereof. In some embodiments, the second cancer treatment regimen comprises a B
    cell receptor pathway inhibitor. In some embodiments, the B cell receptor pathway inhibitor is a
    CD79A inhibitor, a CD79B inhibitor, a CD19 inhibitor, a Lyn inhibitor, a Syk inhibitor, a P13K
    inhibitor, a Blnk inhibitor, a PLCy inhibitor, a PKC inhibitor, or a combination thereof. In
    some embodiments, the cancer treatment regimen comprises a B cell receptor pathway inhibitor.
 to In some embodiments, the cancer treatment regimen comprises a CD79A inhibitor, a CD79B
    inhibitor, a CD 19 inhibitor, a Lyn inhibitor, a Syk inhibitor, a P13K inhibitor, a Blnk inhibitor, a
    PLCy inhibitor, a PKC inhibitor, or a combination thereof. In some embodiments, the cancer
    treatment regimen comprises an antibody, B cell receptor signaling inhibitor, a P13K inhibitor,
    an IAP inhibitor, an mTOR inhibitor, a radioimmunotherapeutic, a DNA damaging agent, a
 [5 proteosome inhibitor, a histone deacetylase inhibitor, a protein kinase inhibitor, a hedgehog
    inhibitor, an Hsp90 inhibitor, a telomerase inhibitor, a Jakl/2 inhibitor, a protease inhibitor, a
    PKC inhibitor, a PARP inhibitor, or a combination thereof. In some embodiments, the cancer
    treatment regimen comprises chlorambucil, ifosphamide, doxorubicin, mesalazine, thalidomide,
    lenalidomide, temsirolimus, everolimus, fludarabine, fostamatinib, paclitaxel, docetaxel,
 !o ofatumumab, rituximab, dexamethasone, prednisone, CAL-101, ibritumomab, tositumomab,
    bortezomib, pentostatin, endostatin, or a combination thereof. In some embodiments, the cancer
    treatment regimen comprises cyclophosphamide, hydroxydaunorubicin, vincristine, and
    prednisone, and optionally, rituximab. In some embodiments, the cancer treatment regimen
    comprises bendamustine, and rituximab. In some embodiments, the cancer treatment regimen
25  comprises fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, and rituximab. In some embodiments, the cancer
    treatment regimen comprises cyclophosphamide, vincristine, and prednisone, and optionally,
    rituximab. In some embodiments, the cancer treatment regimen comprises etoposide,
    doxorubicin, vinristine, cyclophosphamide, prednisolone, and optionally, rituximab. In some
    embodiments, the cancer treatment regimen comprises dexamethasone and lenalidomide.
30                            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
    [00081          Fig. 1 depicts the role of Btk activity in a number of processes in a CLL cell that
    contribute to the pathogenesis of the disease
                                                         9

    [0009]          Fig. 2 presents the absolute lyphocyte count during the course of treatment with
    an irreversible Btk inhibitor for an individual with CLL.
    [0010]          Fig. 3 presents change in the sum of the product of the diameters of lymph node
    (LN) in patients with CLL and SLL who are treated with an irreversible Btk inhibitor.
  5 [0011]          Fig. 4 depicts LN response in patient suffering from CLL. Left panel depicts LN
    prior to treatment with an irreversible Btk inhibitor and Right panel depicts LN post-treatment
    with an irreversible Btk inhibitor.
    [0012]          Fig. 5 depicts the effect of an irreversible Btk inhibitor on LN disease burden and
    lymphocytosis over time in the patients suffering with CLL and/or SLL.
 to [0013]          Fig. 6 depicts adverse effects in patients treated with an irreversible Btk inhibitor.
    Grades 1-4 represent severity of effects with 1 representing very mild to 4 representing extreme
    discomfort.
    [0014]          Fig. 7 depicts the absolute lymphocyte count (ALC)/109 L vs. Cycle Day after
    administering a Btk inhibitor to individuals with follicular lymphoma who achieved complete or
 [5 partial response (CR/PR). The Y Axis shows the Absolute Lymphocyte Counts (ALC) at each
    time point by cycle number and day in the X axis. All Patients (except Pt 32009) were treated on
    schedule of 4 weeks on treatment followed by one week off. Thus, dayl of each cycle follows
    one week off drug for these patients. Note the increases of ALC during most cycles of most
    patients, and the fall of ALC at the beginning of subsequent cycles. This pattern is often blunted
 !o in later cycles as patients responded to treatment. Patient 32009 received treatment without
    interruption and did not show this cyclic pattern, but did show an increase at Cycle 1, dayl5, and
    gradual increases during Cycles 2 to 5.
    [00151          Fig. 8 depicts the absolute lymphocyte count (ALC)/109 L vs. Cycle Day after
    administering a Btk inhibitor to individuals with follicular lymphoma who had Stable Disease
25  (SD) during treatment. The Y Axis shows the Absolute Lymphocyte Counts (ALC) at each time
    point by cycle number and day in the X axis. All Patients were treated on schedule of 4 weeks
    on treatment followed by one week off. Thus, dayl of each cycle follows one week off drug for
    these patients. Note the gradual increase of blood ALC mobilization of Patient 32004, who
    initially was stable but later had Progressive Disease (PD).
30  [0016]          Fig. 9 depicts the absolute lymphocyte count (ALC)/109 L vs. Cycle Day after
    administering a Btk inhibitor to PD individuals with follicular lymphoma. The Y Axis shows the
    Absolute Lymphocyte Counts (ALC) at each time point by cycle number and day in the X axis.
    All Patients except 38010 were treated on schedule of 4 weeks on treatment followed by one
                                                          10

    week off. Thus, dayl of each cycle follows one week off drug for these patients. Note lack of
    mobilization, especially patients 38010 and 32001. Patient 323001 had limited treatment before
    being taken off study. The lymphocyte response suggests that this patient might had responded if
    it had been possible to stay on treatment longer.
  5 [00171          Fig. 10 depicts the absolute lymphocyte count (ALC)/109 L vs. Cycle Day after
    administering a Btk inhibitor to PR and SD individuals with DLBCL. The Y Axis shows the
    Absolute Lymphocyte Counts (ALC) at each time point by cycle number and day in the X axis.
    Patient 38011 was treated on schedule of 4 weeks on treatment followed by one week off. Thus,
    dayl of each cycle follows one week off drug for this patient. Patients 38008 and 324001 were
 to treated with continuous daily doses.
    [00181          Fig. 11 depicts the absolute lymphocyte count (ALC)/109 L vs. Cycle Day after
    administering a Btk inhibitor to PD individuals with DLBCL. The Y Axis shows the Absolute
    Lymphocyte Counts (ALC) at each time point by cycle number and day in the X axis. All
    Patients were treated on schedule of 4 weeks on treatment followed by one week off. Thus, dayl
 [5 of each cycle follows one week off drug for these patients. Note lack of mobilization for 3 of the
    4 patients. Patient 32002 received only one cycle of treatment.
    [0019]          Fig. 12 depicts the absolute lymphocyte count (ALC)/109 L vs. Cycle Day after
    administering a Btk inhibitor to individuals with mantle cell lymphoma. The Y Axis shows the
    Absolute Lymphocyte Counts (ALC) at each time point by cycle number and day in the X axis.
 !o Patients 32006, 38003, and 38004 were treated on schedule of 4 weeks on treatment followed by
    one week off. Thus, dayl of each cycle follows one week off drug for these patients. The other
    patients were treated with continuous daily dosing. Note that the patient with initial PD (32014)
    failed to show mobilization.
    [0020]          Fig. 13 depicts the absolute lymphocyte count (ALC)/109 L vs. Cycle Day for
25  after administering a Btk inhibitor to the individuals with mantle cell lymphoma shown in
    Figure 12. The axis has been changed, as compared to Fig. 12, to demonstrate low amplitude
    fluctuations. Note that all responding patients showed some degree of mobilization.
    [0021]          Fig. 14 demonstrates that lymphocyte mobilization, specifically B Cell type,
    consistent with lymphoma cells, decreases as disease responds. Patient 32007, Cohort 4, had
30  follicular lymphoma, grade 3, which gradually regressed from SD to CR. Although the changes
    of ALC in this case are not dramatic, the B cell fraction is undergoing characteristic cyclic
    increases in response to treatment with a Btk inhibitor. Also note the decreasing cycle by cycle
    magnitude of shifts consistent with cumulative disease control.
                                                        11

    [00221          Fig. 15 demonstrates that there is increased B Cell mobilization with disease
    progression. Patient 32004, Cohort 2, had follicular lymphoma, grade 1, which progressed from
    SD initially to PD following Cycle 6.
    [0023]          Fig. 16 depicts early mobilization and eventual decrease of a CD45DIM B cell
  5 subpopulation in responding mantle cell lymphoma patient 200-005. This subpopulation has a
    typical MCL immunophenotype (CD45 DIM) and is different than that of normal lymphocytes.
    [0024]          Fig. 17 depicts abnormal high light scatter CD19- cells mobilizing and then
    regressing in CR DLBCL Pt 324001. These CD45 cells with light scatter (SSC-H) in the upper
    panels were gated upon and their CD3 vs CD19 staining displayed in the lower panels. Here the
 t0 putative malignant cells were "hidden" in the large MNC window normally defining monocytes.
    The sequence of mobilization followed by response is similar to other examples.
    [00251          Figure 18 presents the responses for a clinical trial involving administering a Btk
    inhibitor to elderly patients with CLL or SLL, who are naYve for drug intervention. Individuals
    were administered 420 mg/day of a Btk inhibitor.
 [5 [0026]          Figure 19 presents the responses for a clinical trial involving administering a Btk
    inhibitor to R/R patients with CLL or SLL. Individuals were administered 420 mg/day of a Btk
    inhibitor.
    [00271          Figure 20 presents the responses for a clinical trial involving administering a Btk
    inhibitor to individuals with high risk CLL.
 !o [0028]          Figure 21 presents the response over time for a clinical trial involving
    administering a Btk inhibitor to individuals with CLL or SLL.
    [0029]          Figure 22 presents the best responses for all patients in a clinical trial involving
    administering a Btk inhibitor to individuals with CLL or SLL.
    [0030]          Figure 23 presents the best responses for abstract patients in a clinical trial
25  involving administering a Btk inhibitor to individuals with CLL or SLL.
    [0031]          Figure 24 presents the best response by prognostic factor in CLL or SLL patients
    involved in a clinical trial involving administering a Btk inhibitor.
    [0032]          Figure 25 presents initial (Cycle 2) response assessment and best response
    (420mg Cohorts) in CLL or SLL patients involved in a clinical trial involving administering a
30  Btk inhibitor.
    [0033]          Figure 26 presents initial (Cycle 2) response assessment by dose in
    relapsed/refractory CLL or SLL patients involved in a clinical trial involving administering a
    Btk inhibitor.
                                                         12

    [00341          Figure 27 presents improvements in hematological parameters in CLL or SLL
    patients involved in a clinical trial involving administering a Btk inhibitor.
    [00351          Figure 28 present data showing the results of a combination of a Btk inhibitor and
    Carboplatin or Velcade in DoHH2 cells.
  5 [0036]          Figure 29 present data showing the results of a combination of a Btk inhibitor and
    Dexamethasone or Lenalidomide in DoHH2 cells.
    [00371          Figure 30 present data showing the results of a combination of a Btk inhibitor and
    Temsirolimus or R406 in DoHH2 cells.
    [0038]          Figure 31 present data showing the results of a combination of a Btk inhibitor and
 t0 Gemcitabine or Doxorubicin in DoHH2 cells.
    [0039]          Figure 32 present data showing the results of a combination of a Btk inhibitor and
    Cal-101 in TMD8 cells.
    [0040]          Figure 33 present data showing the results of a combination of a Btk inhibitor and
    R406 in TMD8 cells.
 [5 [0041]          Figure 34 present data showing the results of a combination of a Btk inhibitor and
    vincristine in TMD8 cells.
    [0042]          Figure 35 present data showing the results of a combination of a Btk inhibitor and
    doxorubicin in TMD8 cells.
    [00431          Figure 36 present data showing the results of a combination of a Btk inhibitor and
 !o lenolidomide in TMD8 cells.
    [0044]          Figure 37 present data showing the results of a combination of a Btk inhibitor and
    velcade in TMD8 cells.
    [00451          Figure 38 present data showing the results of a combination of a Btk inhibitor and
    Fludarabine in TMD8 cells.
25  [00461          Figure 39 present data showing the results of a combination of a Btk inhibitor and
    taxol in TMD8 cells.
                         DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
    [0047] There is currently a need for methods of treating (including, diagnosing) hematological
    malignancies, including relapsed and refractory B cell malignancies, and ABC-DLBCL. The
30  present application is based, in part, on the unexpected discovery that Btk inhibitors induce
    mobilization (or, in some cases, lymphocytosis) of lymphoid cells in solid hematological
    malignancies. Mobilization of the lymphoid cells increases their exposure to additional cancer
    treatment regimens and their availability for biomarker screening. The inventors have also found
                                                        13

    that Btk inhibitors are useful for treating relapsed and refractory malignancies and ABC
    DLBCL.
    [0048] Disclosed herein, in certain embodiments, is a method for treating a hematological
    malignancy in an individual in need thereof, comprising: (a) administering to the individual an
  5 amount of an irreversible Btk inhibitor sufficient to mobilize a plurality of cells from the
    malignancy; and (b) analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells. Disclosed herein, in certain
    embodiments, is a method for treating diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, activated B cell-like
    subtype (ABC-DLBCL), in an individual in need thereof, comprising: administering to the
    individual an irreversible Btk inhibitor in an amount from 300 mg/day up to, and including,
 to 1000 mg/day. Further disclosed herein, in certain embodiments, is a method for treating relapsed
    or refractory non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in an individual in need thereof, comprising:
    administering to the individual a therapeutically-effective amount of (R)-1-(3-(4-amino-3-(4
    phenoxyphenyl)- 1H-pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidin- 1-yl)piperidin-1 -yl)prop-2-en-1-one.
    Certain Terminology
 [5 [0049] Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same
    meaning as is commonly understood by one of skill in the art to which the claimed subject
    matter belongs. In the event that there are a plurality of definitions for terms herein, those in this
    section prevail. Where reference is made to a URL or other such identifier or address, it is
    understood that such identifiers can change and particular information on the internet can come
 !o and go, but equivalent information can be found by searching the internet. Reference thereto
    evidences the availability and public dissemination of such information.
    [0050] It is to be understood that the foregoing general description and the following detailed
    description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of any subject matter
    claimed. In this application, the use of the singular includes the plural unless specifically stated
25  otherwise. It must be noted that, as used in the specification and the appended claims, the
    singular forms "a," "an" and "the" include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates
    otherwise. In this application, the use of "or" means "and/or" unless stated otherwise.
    Furthermore, use of the term "including" as well as other forms, such as "include", "includes,"
    and "included," is not limiting.
30  [0051] The section headings used herein are for organizational purposes only and are not to be
    construed as limiting the subject matter described. All documents, or portions of documents,
    cited in the application including, but not limited to, patents, patent applications, articles, books,
                                                         14

    manuals, and treatises are hereby expressly incorporated by reference in their entirety for any
    purpose.
    [0052] Definition of standard chemistry terms may be found in reference works, including
    Carey and Sundberg "ADVANCED ORGANIC CHEMISTRY 4" ED." Vols. A (2000) and B (2001),
  5 Plenum Press, New York. Unless otherwise indicated, conventional methods of mass
    spectroscopy, NMR, HPLC, protein chemistry, biochemistry, recombinant DNA techniques and
    pharmacology, within the skill of the art are employed. Unless specific definitions are provided,
    the nomenclature employed in connection with, and the laboratory procedures and techniques of,
    analytical chemistry, synthetic organic chemistry, and medicinal and pharmaceutical chemistry
 t0 described herein are those known in the art. Standard techniques can be used for chemical
    syntheses, chemical analyses, pharmaceutical preparation, formulation, and delivery, and
    treatment of patients. Standard techniques can be used for recombinant DNA, oligonucleotide
    synthesis, and tissue culture and transformation (e.g., electroporation, lipofection). Reactions
    and purification techniques can be performed e.g., using kits of manufacturer's specifications or
 [5 as commonly accomplished in the art or as described herein. The foregoing techniques and
    procedures can be generally performed of conventional methods well known in the art and as
    described in various general and more specific references that are cited and discussed throughout
    the present specification.
    [0053] It is to be understood that the methods and compositions described herein are not limited
 !o to the particular methodology, protocols, cell lines, constructs, and reagents described herein and
    as such may vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose
    of describing particular embodiments only, and is not intended to limit the scope of the methods
    and compositions described herein, which will be limited only by the appended claims.
    [0054] All publications and patents mentioned herein are incorporated herein by reference in
25  their entirety for the purpose of describing and disclosing, for example, the constructs and
    methodologies that are described in the publications, which might be used in connection with the
    methods, compositions and compounds described herein. The publications discussed herein are
    provided solely for their disclosure prior to the filing date of the present application. Nothing
    herein is to be construed as an admission that the inventors described herein are not entitled to
30  antedate such disclosure by virtue of prior invention or for any other reason.
    [0055] An "alkyl" group refers to an aliphatic hydrocarbon group. The alkyl moiety may be a
    "saturated alkyl" group, which means that it does not contain any alkene or alkyne moieties. The
    alkyl moiety may also be an "unsaturated alkyl" moiety, which means that it contains at least
                                                          15

    one alkene or alkyne moiety. An "alkene" moiety refers to a group that has at least one carbon
    carbon double bond, and an "alkyne" moiety refers to a group that has at least one carbon
    carbon triple bond. The alkyl moiety, whether saturated or unsaturated, may be branched,
    straight chain, or cyclic. Depending on the structure, an alkyl group can be a monoradical or a
  5 diradical (i.e., an alkylene group). The alkyl group could also be a "lower alkyl" having 1 to 6
    carbon atoms.
    [0056] As used herein, C1 -Cx includes C1 -C 2 , CI-C 3 .. CI-C,.
    [0057] The "alkyl" moiety may have 1 to 10 carbon atoms (whenever it appears herein, a
    numerical range such as "1 to 10" refers to each integer in the given range; e.g., "1 to 10 carbon
 t0 atoms" means that the alkyl group may have 1 carbon atom, 2 carbon atoms, 3 carbon atoms,
    etc., up to and including 10 carbon atoms, although the present definition also covers the
    occurrence of the term "alkyl" where no numerical range is designated). The alkyl group of the
    compounds described herein may be designated as "C 1-C4 alkyl" or similar designations. By
    way of example only, "C 1-C 4 alkyl" indicates that there are one to four carbon atoms in the alkyl
 [5 chain, i.e., the alkyl chain is selected from among methyl, ethyl, propyl, iso-propyl, n-butyl, iso
    butyl, sec-butyl, and t-butyl. Thus CI-C 4 alkyl includes C1 -C2 alkyl and C1 -C 3 alkyl. Alkyl
    groups can be substituted or unsubstituted. Typical alkyl groups include, but are in no way
    limited to, methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, butyl, isobutyl, tertiary butyl, pentyl, hexyl, ethenyl,
    propenyl, butenyl, cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, and the like.
 !0 [0058] As used herein, the term "non-cyclic alkyl" refers to an alkyl that is not cyclic (i.e., a
    straight or branched chain containing at least one carbon atom). Non-cyclic alkyls can be fully
    saturated or can contain non-cyclic alkenes and/or alkynes. Non-cyclic alkyls can be optionally
    substituted.
    [0059] The term "alkenyl" refers to a type of alkyl group in which the first two atoms of the
25  alkyl group form a double bond that is not part of an aromatic group. That is, an alkenyl group
    begins with the atoms -C(R)=C(R)-R, wherein R refers to the remaining portions of the alkenyl
    group, which may be the same or different. The alkenyl moiety may be branched, straight chain,
    or cyclic (in which case, it would also be known as a "cycloalkenyl" group). Depending on the
    structure, an alkenyl group can be a monoradical or a diradical (i.e., an alkenylene group).
30  Alkenyl groups can be optionally substituted. Non-limiting examples of an alkenyl group
    include -CH=CH 2, -C(CH 3 )=CH 2, -CH=CHCH 3, -C(CH 3)=CHCH 3 . Alkenylene groups include,
    but are not limited to, -CH=CH-, -C(CH 3)=CH-, -CH=CHCH 2-, -CH=CHCH 2CH 2- and
                                                         16

    C(CH 3)=CHCH 2-. Alkenyl groups could have 2 to 10 carbons. The alkenyl group could also be
    a "lower alkenyl" having 2 to 6 carbon atoms.
    [0060] The term "alkynyl" refers to a type of alkyl group in which the first two atoms of the
    alkyl group form a triple bond. That is, an alkynyl group begins with the atoms -C-C-R,
  5 wherein R refers to the remaining portions of the alkynyl group, which may be the same or
    different. The "R" portion of the alkynyl moiety may be branched, straight chain, or cyclic.
    Depending on the structure, an alkynyl group can be a monoradical or a diradical (i.e., an
    alkynylene group). Alkynyl groups can be optionally substituted. Non-limiting examples of an
    alkynyl group include, but are not limited to, -C-CH, -C-CCH 3 , -C-CCH 2 CH 3 , -C-C-, and
 to C--CCH 2-. Alkynyl groups can have 2 to 10 carbons. The alkynyl group could also be a "lower
    alkynyl" having 2 to 6 carbon atoms.
    [0061] An "alkoxy" group refers to a (alkyl)O- group, where alkyl is as defined herein.
    [0062] "Hydroxyalkyl" refers to an alkyl radical, as defined herein, substituted with at least one
    hydroxy group. Non-limiting examples of a hydroxyalkyl include, but are not limited to,
 [5 hydroxymethyl, 2-hydroxyethyl, 2-hydroxypropyl, 3-hydroxypropyl, 1-(hydroxymethyl)
    2-methylpropyl, 2-hydroxybutyl, 3-hydroxybutyl, 4-hydroxybutyl, 2,3-dihydroxypropyl,
    1-(hydroxymethyl)-2-hydroxyethyl, 2,3-dihydroxybutyl, 3,4-dihydroxybutyl and
    2-(hydroxymethyl)-3-hydroxypropyl.
    [0063] "Alkoxyalkyl" refers to an alkyl radical, as defined herein, substituted with an alkoxy
 !0 group, as defined herein.
    [0064] An "alkenyloxy" group refers to a (alkenyl)O- group, where alkenyl is as defined herein.
    [0065] The term "alkylamine" refers to the -N(alkyl)xHy group, where x and y are selected from
    among x=1, y=1 and x=2, y=0. When x=2, the alkyl groups, taken together with the N atom to
    which they are attached, can optionally form a cyclic ring system.
25  [0066] "Alkylaminoalkyl" refers to an alkyl radical, as defined herein, substituted with an
    alkylamine, as defined herein.
    [0067] An "amide" is a chemical moiety with the formula -C(O)NHR or -NHC(O)R, where R is
    selected from among alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, heteroaryl (bonded through a ring carbon) and
    heteroalicyclic (bonded through a ring carbon). An amide moiety may form a linkage between
30  an amino acid or a peptide molecule and a compound described herein, thereby forming a
    prodrug. Any amine, or carboxyl side chain on the compounds described herein can be
    amidified. The procedures and specific groups to make such amides are known to those of skill
    in the art and can readily be found in reference sources such as Greene and Wuts, Protective
                                                        17

    Groups in Organic Synthesis, 3 Ed., John Wiley & Sons, New York, NY, 1999, which is
    incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
    [0068] The term "ester" refers to a chemical moiety with formula -COOR, where R is selected
    from among alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, heteroaryl (bonded through a ring carbon) and
  5 heteroalicyclic (bonded through a ring carbon). Any hydroxy, or carboxyl side chain on the
    compounds described herein can be esterified. The procedures and specific groups to make such
    esters are known to those of skill in the art and can readily be found in reference sources such as
    Greene and Wuts, Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis,       3 rd Ed., John Wiley & Sons, New
    York, NY, 1999, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
 t0 [0069] As used herein, the term "ring" refers to any covalently closed structure. Rings include,
    for example, carbocycles (e.g., aryls and cycloalkyls), heterocycles (e.g., heteroaryls and non
    aromatic heterocycles), aromatics (e.g. aryls and heteroaryls), and non-aromatics (e.g.,
    cycloalkyls and non-aromatic heterocycles). Rings can be optionally substituted. Rings can be
    monocyclic or polycyclic.
 [5 [0070] As used herein, the term "ring system" refers to one, or more than one ring.
    [0071] The term "membered ring" can embrace any cyclic structure. The term "membered" is
    meant to denote the number of skeletal atoms that constitute the ring. Thus, for example,
    cyclohexyl, pyridine, pyran and thiopyran are 6-membered rings and cyclopentyl, pyrrole, furan,
    and thiophene are 5-membered rings.
 !0 [0072] The term "fused" refers to structures in which two or more rings share one or more
    bonds.
    [0073] The term "carbocyclic" or "carbocycle" refers to a ring wherein each of the atoms
    forming the ring is a carbon atom. Carbocycle includes aryl and cycloalkyl. The term thus
    distinguishes carbocycle from heterocycle ("heterocyclic") in which the ring backbone contains
25  at least one atom which is different from carbon (i.e a heteroatom). Heterocycle includes
    heteroaryl and heterocycloalkyl. Carbocycles and heterocycles can be optionally substituted.
    [0074] The term "aromatic" refers to a planar ring having a delocalized it-electron system
    containing 4n+2 7r electrons, where n is an integer. Aromatic rings can be formed from five, six,
    seven, eight, nine, or more than nine atoms. Aromatics can be optionally substituted. The term
30  "aromatic" includes both carbocyclic aryl (e.g., phenyl) and heterocyclic aryl (or "heteroaryl" or
    "heteroaromatic") groups (e.g., pyridine). The term includes monocyclic or fused-ring
    polycyclic (i.e., rings which share adjacent pairs of carbon atoms) groups.
                                                         18

    [0075] As used herein, the term "aryl" refers to an aromatic ring wherein each of the atoms
    forming the ring is a carbon atom. Aryl rings can be formed by five, six, seven, eight, nine, or
    more than nine carbon atoms. Aryl groups can be optionally substituted. Examples of aryl
    groups include, but are not limited to phenyl, naphthalenyl, phenanthrenyl, anthracenyl,
  5 fluorenyl, and indenyl. Depending on the structure, an aryl group can be a monoradical or a
    diradical (i.e., an arylene group).
    [0076] An "aryloxy" group refers to an (aryl)O- group, where aryl is as defined herein.
    [0077] "Aralkyl" means an alkyl radical, as defined herein, substituted with an aryl group. Non
    limiting aralkyl groups include, benzyl, phenethyl, and the like.
 t0 [0078] "Aralkenyl" means an alkenyl radical, as defined herein, substituted with an aryl group,
    as defined herein.
    [0079] The term "cycloalkyl" refers to a monocyclic or polycyclic radical that contains only
    carbon and hydrogen, and may be saturated, partially unsaturated, or fully unsaturated.
    Cycloalkyl groups include groups having from 3 to 10 ring atoms. Illustrative examples of
 [5 cycloalkyl groups include the following moieties:
                  F->               C   0      0,           0          CC
          >                00                OQ                                0
                                               , and the like. Depending on the structure, a
20  cycloalkyl group can be a monoradical or a diradical (e.g., an cycloalkylene group). The
    cycloalkyl group could also be a "lower cycloalkyl" having 3 to 8 carbon atoms.
    [0080] "Cycloalkylalkyl" means an alkyl radical, as defined herein, substituted with a cycloalkyl
    group. Non-limiting cycloalkylalkyl groups include cyclopropylmethyl, cyclobutylmethyl,
    cyclopentylmethyl, cyclohexylmethyl, and the like.
25  [0081] The term "heterocycle" refers to heteroaromatic and heteroalicyclic groups containing
    one to four heteroatoms each selected from 0, S and N, wherein each heterocyclic group has
    from 4 to 10 atoms in its ring system, and with the proviso that the ring of said group does not
    contain two adjacent 0 or S atoms. Herein, whenever the number of carbon atoms in a
                                                       19

    heterocycle is indicated (e.g., C1 -C6 heterocycle), at least one other atom (the heteroatom) must
    be present in the ring. Designations such as "C1-C6 heterocycle" refer only to the number of
    carbon atoms in the ring and do not refer to the total number of atoms in the ring. It is
    understood that the heterocylic ring can have additional heteroatoms in the ring. Designations
  5 such as "4-6 membered heterocycle" refer to the total number of atoms that are contained in the
    ring (i.e., a four, five, or six membered ring, in which at least one atom is a carbon atom, at least
    one atom is a heteroatom and the remaining two to four atoms are either carbon atoms or
    heteroatoms). In heterocycles that have two or more heteroatoms, those two or more
    heteroatoms can be the same or different from one another. Heterocycles can be optionally
 t0 substituted. Binding to a heterocycle can be at a heteroatom or via a carbon atom. Non-aromatic
    heterocyclic groups include groups having only 4 atoms in their ring system, but aromatic
    heterocyclic groups must have at least 5 atoms in their ring system. The heterocyclic groups
    include benzo-fused ring systems. An example of a 4-membered heterocyclic group is azetidinyl
    (derived from azetidine). An example of a 5-membered heterocyclic group is thiazolyl. An
 [5 example of a 6-membered heterocyclic group is pyridyl, and an example of a 10-membered
    heterocyclic group is quinolinyl. Examples of non-aromatic heterocyclic groups are pyrrolidinyl,
    tetrahydrofuranyl, dihydrofuranyl, tetrahydrothienyl, tetrahydropyranyl, dihydropyranyl,
    tetrahydrothiopyranyl, piperidino, morpholino, thiomorpholino, thioxanyl, piperazinyl,
    azetidinyl, oxetanyl, thietanyl, homopiperidinyl, oxepanyl, thiepanyl, oxazepinyl, diazepinyl,
 !o thiazepinyl, 1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridinyl, 2-pyrrolinyl, 3-pyrrolinyl, indolinyl, 2H-pyranyl, 4H
    pyranyl, dioxanyl, 1,3-dioxolanyl, pyrazolinyl, dithianyl, dithiolanyl, dihydropyranyl,
    dihydrothienyl, dihydrofuranyl, pyrazolidinyl, imidazolinyl, imidazolidinyl, 3
    azabicyclo[3. 1.O]hexanyl, 3-azabicyclo[4. 1.0]heptanyl, 3H-indolyl and quinolizinyl. Examples
    of aromatic heterocyclic groups are pyridinyl, imidazolyl, pyrimidinyl, pyrazolyl, triazolyl,
25  pyrazinyl, tetrazolyl, furyl, thienyl, isoxazolyl, thiazolyl, oxazolyl, isothiazolyl, pyrrolyl,
    quinolinyl, isoquinolinyl, indolyl, benzimidazolyl, benzofuranyl, cinnolinyl, indazolyl,
    indolizinyl, phthalazinyl, pyridazinyl, triazinyl, isoindolyl, pteridinyl, purinyl, oxadiazolyl,
    thiadiazolyl, furazanyl, benzofurazanyl, benzothiophenyl, benzothiazolyl, benzoxazolyl,
    quinazolinyl, quinoxalinyl, naphthyridinyl, and furopyridinyl. The foregoing groups, as derived
30  from the groups listed above, may be C-attached or N-attached where such is possible. For
    instance, a group derived from pyrrole may be pyrrol-1-yl (N-attached) or pyrrol-3-yl (C
    attached). Further, a group derived from imidazole may be imidazol-1-yl or imidazol-3-yl (both
    N-attached) or imidazol-2-yl, imidazol-4-yl or imidazol-5-yl (all C-attached). The heterocyclic
                                                          20

    groups include benzo-fused ring systems and ring systems substituted with one or two oxo (=0)
    moieties such as pyrrolidin-2-one. Depending on the structure, a heterocycle group can be a
    monoradical or a diradical (i.e., a heterocyclene group).
    [0082] The terms "heteroaryl" or, alternatively, "heteroaromatic" refers to an aryl group that
  5 includes one or more ring heteroatoms selected from nitrogen, oxygen and sulfur. An N
    containing "heteroaromatic" or "heteroaryl" moiety refers to an aromatic group in which at least
    one of the skeletal atoms of the ring is a nitrogen atom. Illustrative examples of heteroaryl
    groups include the following moieties:
                          N
           N' N     (' N H                                           N>NS
               N\Th j          \C           /,\>\N
            N   0                        N -O        N              N
         N  N/\/0           L     N    t~          (N     ,~        N                              N
                                                       N               N
        and the like. Depending on the structure, a heteroaryl group can be a monoradical or a
        diradical (i.e., a heteroarylene group).
    [0083] As used herein, the term "non-aromatic heterocycle", "heterocycloalkyl" or
 [5 "heteroalicyclic" refers to a non-aromatic ring wherein one or more atoms forming the ring is a
    heteroatom. A "non-aromatic heterocycle" or "heterocycloalkyl" group refers to a cycloalkyl
    group that includes at least one heteroatom selected from nitrogen, oxygen and sulfur. The
    radicals may be fused with an aryl or heteroaryl. Heterocycloalkyl rings can be formed by three,
    four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, or more than nine atoms. Heterocycloalkyl rings can be
20  optionally substituted. In certain embodiments, non-aromatic heterocycles contain one or more
    carbonyl or thiocarbonyl groups such as, for example, oxo- and thio-containing groups.
    Examples of heterocycloalkyls include, but are not limited to, lactams, lactones, cyclic imides,
    cyclic thioimides, cyclic carbamates, tetrahydrothiopyran, 4H-pyran, tetrahydropyran,
    piperidine, 1,3-dioxin, 1,3-dioxane, 1,4-dioxin, 1,4-dioxane, piperazine, 1,3-oxathiane, 1,4
25  oxathiin, 1,4-oxathiane, tetrahydro-1,4-thiazine, 2H-1,2-oxazine, maleimide, succinimide,
    barbituric acid, thiobarbituric acid, dioxopiperazine, hydantoin, dihydrouracil, morpholine,
    trioxane, hexahydro-1,3,5-triazine, tetrahydrothiophene, tetrahydrofuran, pyrroline, pyrrolidine,
    pyrrolidone, pyrrolidione, pyrazoline, pyrazolidine, imidazoline, imidazolidine, 1,3-dioxole, 1,3
    dioxolane, 1,3-dithiole, 1,3-dithiolane, isoxazoline, isoxazolidine, oxazoline, oxazolidine,
                                                         21

    oxazolidinone, thiazoline, thiazolidine, and 1,3-oxathiolane. Illustrative examples of
    heterocycloalkyl groups, also referred to as non-aromatic heterocycles, include:
                  0 0   0      0         0          0         0
                (
                S           N2
                             N"       ('-N          k0            0A
                                                                       N      N
                                                                        9
                           SO
            N         0         0                  N
                               00)-oOQCN
                                                                               H
  5    H
            (S)
                  UH      H
                                   2                   -S=
                                                      NU          CND'0         N'l0
                                                                                                      and
    the like. The term heteroalicyclic also includes all ring forms of the carbohydrates, including but
    not limited to the monosaccharides, the disaccharides and the oligosaccharides. Depending on
    the structure, a heterocycloalkyl group can be a monoradical or a diradical (i.e., a
    heterocycloalkylene group).
 to [0084] The term "halo" or, alternatively, "halogen" or "halide" means fluoro, chloro, bromo and
    iodo.
    [0085] The terms "haloalkyl," "haloalkenyl," "haloalkynyl" and "haloalkoxy" include alkyl,
    alkenyl, alkynyl and alkoxy structures in which at least one hydrogen is replaced with a halogen
    atom. In certain embodiments in which two or more hydrogen atoms are replaced with halogen
 [5 atoms, the halogen atoms are all the same as one another. In other embodiments in which two or
    more hydrogen atoms are replaced with halogen atoms, the halogen atoms are not all the same as
    one another.
    [0086] The term "fluoroalkyl," as used herein, refers to alkyl group in which at least one
    hydrogen is replaced with a fluorine atom. Examples of fluoroalkyl groups include, but are not
20  limited to, -CF 3 , -CH 2CF 3, -CF 2 CF 3 , -CH 2CH 2 CF 3 and the like.
    [0087] As used herein, the terms "heteroalkyl" "heteroalkenyl" and "heteroalkynyl" include
    optionally substituted alkyl, alkenyl and alkynyl radicals in which one or more skeletal chain
    atoms is a heteroatom, e.g., oxygen, nitrogen, sulfur, silicon, phosphorus or combinations
    thereof. The heteroatom(s) may be placed at any interior position of the heteroalkyl group or at
25  the position at which the heteroalkyl group is attached to the remainder of the molecule.
    Examples include, but are not limited to, -CH 2 -0-CH 3, -CH 2 -CH 2-0-CH 3 , -CH 2-NH-CH 3, -CH 2
    CH 2-NH-CH 3, -CH 2-N(CH 3)-CH 3, -CH 2 -CH 2-NH-CH 3 , -CH 2-CH 2 -N(CH 3)-CH 3 , -CH 2-S-CH 2
    CH 3 , -CH 2-CH 2 ,-S(O)-CH 3 , -CH 2 -CH 2 -S(O) 2 -CH 3 , -CH=CH-0-CH 3, -Si(CH 3)3, -CH 2 -CH=N
                                                            22

    OCH 3, and -CH=CH-N(CH 3)-CH 3 . In addition, up to two heteroatoms may be consecutive, such
    as, by way of example, -CH 2-NH-OCH 3 and -CH 2 -0-Si(CH 3 ) 3 .
    [0088] The term "heteroatom" refers to an atom other than carbon or hydrogen. Heteroatoms are
    typically independently selected from among oxygen, sulfur, nitrogen, silicon and phosphorus,
  5 but are not limited to these atoms. In embodiments in which two or more heteroatoms are
    present, the two or more heteroatoms can all be the same as one another, or some or all of the
    two or more heteroatoms can each be different from the others.
    [0089] The term "bond" or "single bond" refers to a chemical bond between two atoms, or two
    moieties when the atoms joined by the bond are considered to be part of larger substructure.
 t0 [0090] An "isocyanato" group refers to a -NCO group.
    [0091] An "isothiocyanato" group refers to a -NCS group.
    [0092] The term "moiety" refers to a specific segment or functional group of a molecule.
    Chemical moieties are often recognized chemical entities embedded in or appended to a
    molecule.
 [5 [0093] A "sulfinyl" group refers to a -S(=O)-R.
    [0094] A "sulfonyl" group refers to a -S(=0) 2-R.
    [0095] A "thioalkoxy" or "alkylthio" group refers to a -S-alkyl group.
    [0096] A "alkylthioalkyl" group refers to an alkyl group substituted with a -S-alkyl group.
    [0097] As used herein, the term "O-carboxy" or "acyloxy" refers to a group of formula
 !0 RC(=O)O-.
    [0098] "Carboxy" means a -C(O)OH radical.
    [0099] As used herein, the term "acetyl" refers to a group of formula -C(=0)CH 3.
    [00100]         "Acyl" refers to the group -C(O)R.
    [00101]         As used herein, the term "trihalomethanesulfonyl" refers to a group of formula
25  X 3 CS(=0) 2 - where X is a halogen.
    [00102]         As used herein, the term "cyano" refers to a group of formula -CN.
    [00103]         "Cyanoalkyl" means an alkyl radical, as defined herein, substituted with at least
    one cyano group.
    [00104]         As used herein, the term "N-sulfonamido" or "sulfonylamino" refers to a group
30  of formula RS(=0) 2NH-.
    [001051         As used herein, the term "O-carbamyl" refers to a group of formula
    OC(=O)NR 2 .
                                                       23

    [001061         As used herein, the term "N-carbamyl" refers to a group of formula
    ROC(=O)NH-.
    [001071         As used herein, the term "O-thiocarbamyl" refers to a group of formula
    OC(=S)NR2.
  5 [00108]         As used herein, the term "N-thiocarbamyl" refers to a group of formula
    ROC(=S)NH-.
    [00109]         As used herein, the term "C-amido" refers to a group of formula -C(=O)NR2.
    [00110]         "Aminocarbonyl" refers to a -CONH2 radical.
    [00111]         As used herein, the term "N-amido" refers to a group of formula RC(=0)NH-.
 to [00112]         As used herein, the substituent "R" appearing by itself and without a number
    designation refers to a substituent selected from among from alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, heteroaryl
    (bonded through a ring carbon) and non-aromatic heterocycle (bonded through a ring carbon).
    [00113]         The term "optionally substituted" or "substituted" means that the referenced
    group may be substituted with one or more additional group(s) individually and independently
 [5 selected from alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, heteroaryl, heteroalicyclic, hydroxy, alkoxy, aryloxy,
    alkylthio, arylthio, alkylsulfoxide, arylsulfoxide, alkylsulfone, arylsulfone, cyano, halo, acyl,
    nitro, haloalkyl, fluoroalkyl, amino, including mono- and di-substituted amino groups, and the
    protected derivatives thereof. By way of example an optional substituents may be LsRs, wherein
    each L, is independently selected from a bond, -0-, -C(=0)-, -S-, -S(=0)-, -S(=0) 2 -, -NH-,
  0 NHC(O)-, -C(O)NH-, S(=0) 2NH-, -NHS(=0) 2 , -OC(O)NH-, -NHC(0)0-, -(substituted or
    unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkyl), or -(substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C6 alkenyl); and each R, is
    independently selected from H, (substituted or unsubstituted CI-C 4alkyl), (substituted or
    unsubstituted C 3 -C 6cycloalkyl), heteroaryl, or heteroalkyl. The protecting groups that may form
    the protective derivatives of the above substituents are known to those of skill in the art and may
25  be found in references such as Greene and Wuts, above.
    [00114]         The term "Michael acceptor moiety" refers to a functional group that can
    participate in a Michael reaction, wherein a new covalent bond is formed between a portion of
    the Michael acceptor moiety and the donor moiety. The Michael acceptor moiety is an
    electrophile and the "donor moiety" is a nucleophile.
30  [00115]         The term "nucleophile" or "nucleophilic" refers to an electron rich compound, or
    moiety thereof. An example of a nucleophile includes, but in no way is listed to, a cysteine
    residue of a molecule, such as, for example Cys 481 of Btk.
                                                          24

    [001161          The term "electrophile", or "electrophilic" refers to an electron poor or electron
    deficient molecule, or moiety thereof. Examples of electrophiles include, but in no way are
    limited to, Micheal acceptor moieties.
    [00117]          The term "acceptable" or "pharmaceutically acceptable", with respect to a
  5 formulation, composition or ingredient, as used herein, means having no persistent detrimental
    effect on the general health of the subject being treated or does not abrogate the biological
    activity or properties of the compound, and is relatively nontoxic.
    [00118]          "B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders (BCLD) biomarkers", as used herein, refer
    to any biological molecule (found either in blood, other body fluids, or tissues) or any
 t0 chromosomal abnormality that is a sign of a BCLD-related condition or disease.
    [00119]          "Tumor," as used herein, refers to all neoplastic cell growth and proliferation,
    whether malignant or benign, and all pre-cancerous and cancerous cells and tissues.
    "Neoplastic," as used herein, refers to any form of dysregulated or unregulated cell growth,
    whether malignant or benign, resulting in abnormal tissue growth. Thus, "neoplastic cells"
 [5 include malignant and benign cells having dysregulated or unregulated cell growth.
    [00120]          The terms "cancer" and "cancerous" refer to or describe the physiological
    condition in mammals that is typically characterized by unregulated cell growth. Examples of
    cancer include, but are not limited to, B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders (BCLDs), such as
    lymphoma and leukemia, and solid tumors. By "B cell-related cancer" or "cancer of B-cell
 !o lineage" is intended any type of cancer in which the dysregulated or unregulated cell growth is
    associated with B cells.
    [00121]          By "refractory" in the context of a cancer is intended the particular cancer is
    resistant to, or non-responsive to, therapy with a particular therapeutic agent. A cancer can be
    refractory to therapy with a particular therapeutic agent either from the onset of treatment with
25  the particular therapeutic agent (i.e., non-responsive to initial exposure to the therapeutic agent),
    or as a result of developing resistance to the therapeutic agent, either over the course of a first
    treatment period with the therapeutic agent or during a subsequent treatment period with the
    therapeutic agent.
    [00122]          By "agonist activity" is intended that a substance functions as an agonist. An
30  agonist combines with a receptor on a cell and initiates a reaction or activity that is similar to or
    the same as that initiated by the receptor's natural ligand.
    [00123]           By "antagonist activity" is intended that the substance functions as an antagonist.
    An antagonist of Btk prevents or reduces induction of any of the responses meidated by Btk.
                                                         25

    [001241          By "significant" agonist activity is intended an agonist activity of at least 30%,
    35%, 40%,    4 5 %, 50%,  60%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, or 100% greater than the agonist
    activity induced by a neutral substance or negative control as measured in an assay of a B cell
    response. Preferably, "significant" agonist activity is an agonist activity that is at least 2-fold
  5 greater or at least 3-fold greater than the agonist activity induced by a neutral substance or
    negative control as measured in an assay of a B cell response. Thus, for example, where the B
    cell response of interest is B cell proliferation, "significant" agonist activity would be induction
    of a level of B cell proliferation that is at least 2-fold greater or at least 3-fold greater than the
    level of B cell proliferation induced by a neutral substance or negative control.
 to [00125]          A substance "free of significant agonist activity" would exhibit an agonist activity
    of not more than about 25% greater than the agonist activity induced by a neutral substance or
    negative control, preferably not more than about 20% greater, 15% greater, 10% greater, 5%
    greater, l1% greater, 0.50% greater, or even not more than about 0.l1% greater than the agonist
    activity induced by a neutral substance or negative control as measured in an assay of a B cell
  5 response.
    [00126]          In some embodiments, the Btk inhibitor therapeutic agent is an antagonist anti
    Btk antibody. Such antibodies are free of significant agonist activity as noted above when bound
    to a Btk antigen in a human cell. In one embodiment of the invention, the antagonist anti-Btk
    antibody is free of significant agonist activity in one cellular response. In another embodiment of
 !o the invention, the antagonist anti-Btk antibody is free of significant agonist activity in assays of
    more than one cellular response (e.g., proliferation and differentiation, or proliferation,
    differentiation, and, for B cells, antibody production).
    [001271          By "Btk-mediated signaling" it is intended any of the biological activities that are
    dependent on, either directly or indirection, the activity of Btk. Examples of Btk-mediated
25  signaling are signals that lead to proliferation and survival of Btk-expressing cells, and
    stimulation of one or more Btk-signaling pathways within Btk-expressing cells.
    [00128]          A Btk "signaling pathway" or "signal transduction pathway" is intended to mean
    at least one biochemical reaction, or a group of biochemical reactions, that results from the
    activity of Btk, and which generates a signal that, when transmitted through the signal pathway,
30  leads to activation of one or more downstream molecules in the signaling cascade. Signal
    transduction pathways involve a number of signal transduction molecules that lead to
    transmission of a signal from the cell-surface across the plasma membrane of a cell, and through
    one or more in a series of signal transduction molecules, through the cytoplasm of the cell, and
                                                           26

    in some instances, into the cell's nucleus. Of particular interest to the present invention are Btk
    signal transduction pathways which ultimately regulate (either enahnce or inhibit) the activation
    of NF-KB via the NF-KB signaling pathway.
    [00129]          The methods of the present invention are directed to methods for treating cancer
  5 that, in certain embodiments, utilize antibodies for determining the expression or presence of
    certain BCLD biomarkers in these methods. The following terms and definitions apply to such
    antibodies.
    [001301          Antibodies" and "immunoglobulins" (Igs) are glycoproteins having the same
    structural characteristics. The terms are used synonymously. In some instances the antigen
 t0 specificity of the immunoglobulin may be known.
    [001311          The term "antibody" is used in the broadest sense and covers fully assembled
    antibodies, antibody fragments that can bind antigen (e.g., Fab, F(ab') 2 , Fv, single chain
    antibodies, diabodies, antibody chimeras, hybrid antibodies, bispecific antibodies, humanized
    antibodies, and the like), and recombinant peptides comprising the forgoing.
 [5 [00132]          The terms "monoclonal antibody" and "mAb" as used herein refer to an antibody
    obtained from a substantially homogeneous population of antibodies, i.e., the individual
    antibodies comprising the population are identical except for possible naturally occurring
    mutations that may be present in minor amounts.
    [00133]          Native antibodies" and "native immunoglobulins" are usually heterotetrameric
 !0 glycoproteins of about 150,000 daltons, composed of two identical light (L) chains and two
    identical heavy (H) chains. Each light chain is linked to a heavy chain by one covalent disulfide
    bond, while the number of disulfide linkages varies among the heavy chains of different
    immunoglobulin isotypes. Each heavy and light chain also has regularly spaced intrachain
    disulfide bridges. Each heavy chain has at one end a variable domain (VH) followed by a number
25  of constant domains. Each light chain has a variable domain at one end (VL) and a constant
    domain at its other end; the constant domain of the light chain is aligned with the first constant
    domain of the heavy chain, and the light chain variable domain is aligned with the variable
    domain of the heavy chain. Particular amino acid residues are believed to form an interface
    between the light and heavy-chain variable domains.
30  [00134]          The term "variable" refers to the fact that certain portions of the variable domains
    differ extensively in sequence among antibodies. Variable regions confer antigen-binding
    specificity. However, the variability is not evenly distributed throughout the variable domains of
    antibodies. It is concentrated in three segments called complementarity determining regions
                                                         27

    (CDRs) or hypervariable regions, both in the light chain and the heavy-chain variable domains.
    The more highly conserved portions of variable domains are celled in the framework (FR)
    regions. The variable domains of native heavy and light chains each comprise four FR regions,
    largely adopting a -pleated-sheet configuration, connected by three CDRs, which form loops
  5 connecting, and in some cases forming part of, the P-pleated-sheet structure. The CDRs in each
    chain are held together in close proximity by the FR regions and, with the CDRs from the other
    chain, contribute to the formation of the antigen-binding site of antibodies (see, Kabat et al.
    (1991) NIH PubL. No. 91-3242, Vol. I, pages 647-669). The constant domains are not involved
    directly in binding an antibody to an antigen, but exhibit various effector functions, such as Fc
 to receptor (FcR) binding, participation of the antibody in antibody-dependent cellular toxicity,
    initiation of complement dependent cytotoxicity, and mast cell degranulation.
    [001351         The term "hypervariable region," when used herein, refers to the amino acid
    residues of an antibody that are responsible for antigen-binding. The hypervariable region
    comprises amino acid residues from a "complementarily determining region" or "CDR" (i.e.,
 t5 residues 24-34 (LI), 50-56 (L2), and 89-97 (L3) in the light-chain variable domain and 31-35
    (HI), 50-65 (H2), and 95-102 (H3) in the heavy-chain variable domain; Kabat et al. (1991)
    Sequences of Proteins of Immunological Interest, 5th Ed. Public Health Service, National
    Institute of Health, Bethesda, Md.) and/or those residues from a "hypervariable loop" (i.e.,
    residues 26-32 (LI), 50-52 (L2), and 91-96 (L3) in the light-chain variable domain and (HI), 53
 !o 55 (H2), and 96-101 (13) in the heavy chain variable domain; Clothia and Lesk, (1987) J. Mol.
    Biol., 196:901-917). "Framework" or "FR" residues are those variable domain residues other
    than the hypervariable region residues, as herein deemed.
    [001361         "Antibody fragments" comprise a portion of an intact antibody, preferably the
    antigen-binding or variable region of the intact antibody. Examples of antibody fragments
25  include Fab, Fab, F(ab')2, and Fv fragments; diabodies; linear antibodies (Zapata et al. (1995)
    Protein Eng. 10:1057-1062); single-chain antibody molecules; and multispecific antibodies
    formed from antibody fragments. Papain digestion of antibodies produces two identical antigen
    binding fragments, called "Fab" fragments, each with a single antigen-binding site, and a
    residual "Fc" fragment, whose name reflects its ability to crystallize readily. Pepsin treatment
30  yields an F(ab')2 fragment that has two antigen-combining sites and is still capable of cross
    linking antigen.
    [001371         "Fv" is the minimum antibody fragment that contains a complete antigen
    recognition and binding site. This region consists of a dimer of one heavy- and one light-chain
                                                       28

    variable domain in tight, non-covalent association. It is in this configuration that the three CDRs
    of each variable domain interact to define an antigen-binding site on the surface of the VH-VL
    dimer. Collectively, the six CDRs confer antigen-binding specificity to the antibody. However,
    even a single variable domain (or half of an Fv comprising only three CDRs specific for an
  5 antigen) has the ability to recognize and bind antigen, although at a lower affinity than the entire
    binding site.
    [001381         The Fab fragment also contains the constant domain of the light chain and the
    first constant domain (CH1) of the heavy chain. Fab fragments differ from Fab' fragments by the
    addition of a few residues at the carboxy terminus of the heavy chain CH1 domain including one
 t0 or more cysteines from the antibody hinge region. Fab'-SH is the designation herein for Fab' in
    which the cysteine residue(s) of the constant domains bear a free thiol group. Fab' fragments are
    produced by reducing the F(ab')2 fragment's heavy chain disulfide bridge. Other chemical
    couplings of antibody fragments are also known.
    [001391         The "light chains" of antibodies (immunoglobulins) from any vertebrate species
 [5 can be assigned to one of two clearly distinct types, called kappa (K) and lambda (k), based on
    the amino acid sequences of their constant domains.
    [00140]         Depending on the amino acid sequence of the constant domain of their heavy
    chains, immunoglobulins can be assigned to different classes. There are five major classes of
    human immunoglobulins: IgA, IgD, IgE, IgG, and IgM, and several of these may be further
 !o divided into subclasses (isotypes), e.g., IgG1, IgG2, IgG3, IgG4, IgAl, and IgA2. The heavy
    chain constant domains that correspond to the different classes of immunoglobulins are called
    alpha, delta, epsilon, gamma, and mu, respectively. The subunit structures and three-dimensional
    configurations of different classes of immunoglobulins are well known. Different isotypes have
    different effector functions. For example, human IgG1 and IgG3 isotypes have ADCC (antibody
25  dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity) activity.
    [00141]         The word "label" when used herein refers to a detectable compound or
    composition that is conjugated directly or indirectly to the antibody so as to generate a "labeled"
    antibody. The label may be detectable by itself (e.g., radioisotope labels or fluorescent labels) or,
    in the case of an enzymatic label, may catalyze chemical alteration of a substrate compound or
30  composition that is detectable.
    [00142]         The term "acceptable" or "pharmaceutically acceptable", with respect to a
    formulation, composition or ingredient, as used herein, means having no persistent detrimental
                                                        29

    effect on the general health of the subject being treated or does not abrogate the biological
    activity or properties of the compound, and is relatively nontoxic.
    [00143]          As used herein, the term "agonist" refers to a compound, the presence of which
    results in a biological activity of a protein that is the same as the biological activity resulting
  5 from the presence of a naturally occurring ligand for the protein, such as, for example, Btk.
    [00144]          As used herein, the term "partial agonist" refers to a compound the presence of
    which results in a biological activity of a protein that is of the same type as that resulting from
    the presence of a naturally occurring ligand for the protein, but of a lower magnitude.
    [001451          As used herein, the term "antagonist" refers to a compound, the presence of
 t0 which results in a decrease in the magnitude of a biological activity of a protein. In certain
    embodiments, the presence of an antagonist results in complete inhibition of a biological activity
    of a protein, such as, for example, Btk. In certain embodiments, an antagonist is an inhibitor.
    [00146]          The term "Bruton's tyrosine kinase (Btk)," as used herein, refers to Bruton's
    tyrosine kinase from Homo sapiens, as disclosed in, e.g., U.S. Patent No. 6,326,469 (GenBank
 [5 Accession No. NP_000052).
    [001471          The term "Bruton's tyrosine kinase homolog," as used herein, refers to orthologs
    of Bruton's tyrosine kinase, e.g., the orthologs from mouse (GenBank Accession No.
    AAB47246), dog (GenBank Accession No. XP_549139.), rat (GenBank Accession No.
    NP_001007799), chicken (GenBank Accession No. NP_989564), or zebra fish (GenBank
 !0 Accession No. XP_698117), and fusion proteins of any of the foregoing that exhibit kinase
    activity towards one or more substrates of Bruton's tyrosine kinase (e.g. a peptide substrate
    having the amino acid sequence "AVLESEEELYSSARQ").
    [00148]          The terms "co-administration" or "combination therapy" and the like, as used
    herein, are meant to encompass administration of the selected therapeutic agents to a single
25  patient, and are intended to include treatment regimens in which the agents are administered by
    the same or different route of administration or at the same or different time.
    [00149]          The term "effective amount," as used herein, refers to a sufficient amount of a
    Btk inhibitory agent or a Btk inhibitor compound being administered which will result in an
    increase or appearance in the blood of a subpopulation of lymphocytes (e.g., pharmaceutical
30  debulking). For example, an "effective amount" for diagnostic and/or prognostic uses is the
    amount of the composition including a compound as disclosed herein required to provide a
    clinically significant decrease an increase or appearance in the blood of a subpopulation of
                                                           30

    lymphocytes without undue adverse side effects. An appropriate "effective amount" in any
    individual case may be determined using techniques, such as a dose escalation study.
     [001501         The term "therapeutically effective amount," as used herein, refers to a sufficient
    amount of an agent or a compound being administered which will relieve to some extent one or
  5 more of the symptoms s B-cell lymphoproliferative disorder (BCLD). The result can be
    reduction and/or alleviation of the signs, symptoms, or causes of BCLD, or any other desired
    alteration of a biological system. The term "therapeutically effective amount" includes, for
    example, a prophylactically effective amount. An "effective amount" of a compound disclosed
    herein is an amount effective to achieve a desired pharmacologic effect or therapeutic
 to improvement without undue adverse side effects. It is understood that "an effect amount" or "a
    therapeutically effective amount" can vary from subject to subject, due to variation in
    metabolism of the compound of any of Formula (A), Formula (B), Formula (C), or Formula (D),
    age, weight, general condition of the subject, the condition being treated, the severity of the
    condition being treated, and the judgment of the prescribing physician. By way of example only,
 [5 therapeutically effective amounts may be determined by routine experimentation, including but
    not limited to a dose escalation clinical trial.
     [001511         The terms "enhance" or "enhancing" means to increase or prolong either in
    potency or duration a desired effect. By way of example, "enhancing" the effect of therapeutic
    agents refers to the ability to increase or prolong, either in potency or duration, the effect of
 !o therapeutic agents on during treatment of a disease, disorder or condition. An "enhancing
    effective amount," as used herein, refers to an amount adequate to enhance the effect of a
    therapeutic agent in the treatment of a disease, disorder or condition. When used in a patient,
    amounts effective for this use will depend on the severity and course of the disease, disorder or
    condition, previous therapy, the patient's health status and response to the drugs, and the
25  judgment of the treating physician.
     [00152]         The term "homologous cysteine," as used herein refers to a cysteine residue
    found with in a sequence position that is homologous to that of cysteine 481 of Bruton's tyrosine
    kinase, as defined herein. For example, cysteine 482 is the homologous cysteine of the rat
    ortholog of Bruton's tyrosine kinase; cysteine 479 is the homologous cysteine of the chicken
30  ortholog; and cysteine 481 is the homologous cysteine in the zebra fish ortholog. In another
    example, the homologous cysteine of TXK, a Tec kinase family member related to Bruton's
    tyrosine, is Cys 350. See also the sequence alignments of tyrosine kinases (TK) published on the
    world wide web at kinase.com/human/kinome/phylogeny.html.
                                                         31

    [001531          The term "identical," as used herein, refers to two or more sequences or
    subsequences which are the same. In addition, the term "substantially identical," as used herein,
    refers to two or more sequences which have a percentage of sequential units which are the same
    when compared and aligned for maximum correspondence over a comparison window, or
  5 designated region as measured using comparison algorithms or by manual alignment and visual
    inspection. By way of example only, two or more sequences may be "substantially identical" if
    the sequential units are about 60% identical, about 65% identical, about 70% identical, about
    75% identical, about 80% identical, about 85% identical, about 90% identical, or about 95%
    identical over a specified region. Such percentages to describe the "percent identity" of two or
 t0 more sequences. The identity of a sequence can exist over a region that is at least about 75-100
    sequential units in length, over a region that is about 50 sequential units in length, or, where not
    specified, across the entire sequence. This definition also refers to the complement of a test
    sequence. By way of example only, two or more polypeptide sequences are identical when the
    amino acid residues are the same, while two or more polypeptide sequences are "substantially
 [5 identical" if the amino acid residues are about 60% identical, about 65% identical, about 70%
    identical, about 75% identical, about 80% identical, about 85% identical, about 90% identical, or
    about 95% identical over a specified region. The identity can exist over a region that is at least
    about 75-100 amino acids in length, over a region that is about 50 amino acids in length, or,
    where not specified, across the entire sequence of a polypeptide sequence. In addition, by way of
 !o example only, two or more polynucleotide sequences are identical when the nucleic acid
    residues are the same, while two or more polynucleotide sequences are "substantially identical"
    if the nucleic acid residues are about 60% identical, about 65% identical, about 70% identical,
    about 75% identical, about 80% identical, about 85% identical, about 90% identical, or about
    95% identical over a specified region. The identity can exist over a region that is at least about
25  75-100 nucleic acids in length, over a region that is about 50 nucleic acids in length, or, where
    not specified, across the entire sequence of a polynucleotide sequence.
    [00154]          The terms "inhibits", "inhibiting", or "inhibitor" of a kinase, as used herein, refer
    to inhibition of enzymatic phosphotransferase activity.
    [001551          The term "irreversible inhibitor," as used herein, refers to a compound that, upon
30  contact with a target protein (e.g., a kinase) causes the formation of a new covalent bond with or
    within the protein, whereby one or more of the target protein's biological activities (e.g.,
    phosphotransferase activity) is diminished or abolished notwithstanding the subsequent presence
    or absence of the irreversible inhibitor.
                                                         32

    [001561         The term "irreversible Btk inhibitor," as used herein, refers to an inhibitor of Btk
    that can form a covalent bond with an amino acid residue of Btk. In one embodiment, the
    irreversible inhibitor of Btk can form a covalent bond with a Cys residue of Btk; in particular
    embodiments, the irreversible inhibitor can form a covalent bond with a Cys 481 residue (or a
  5 homolog thereof) of Btk or a cysteine residue in the homologous corresponding position of
    another tyrosine kinase.
    [001571         The term "isolated," as used herein, refers to separating and removing a
    component of interest from components not of interest. Isolated substances can be in either a dry
    or semi-dry state, or in solution, including but not limited to an aqueous solution. The isolated
 t0 component can be in a homogeneous state or the isolated component can be a part of a
    pharmaceutical composition that comprises additional pharmaceutically acceptable carriers
    and/or excipients. By way of example only, nucleic acids or proteins are "isolated" when such
    nucleic acids or proteins are free of at least some of the cellular components with which it is
    associated in the natural state, or that the nucleic acid or protein has been concentrated to a level
 [5 greater than the concentration of its in vivo or in vitro production. Also, by way of example, a
    gene is isolated when separated from open reading frames which flank the gene and encode a
    protein other than the gene of interest.
    [001581         A "metabolite" of a compound disclosed herein is a derivative of that compound
    that is formed when the compound is metabolized. The term "active metabolite" refers to a
 !o biologically active derivative of a compound that is formed when the compound is metabolized.
    The term "metabolized," as used herein, refers to the sum of the processes (including, but not
    limited to, hydrolysis reactions and reactions catalyzed by enzymes, such as, oxidation
    reactions) by which a particular substance is changed by an organism. Thus, enzymes may
    produce specific structural alterations to a compound. For example, cytochrome P450 catalyzes
25  a variety of oxidative and reductive reactions while uridine diphosphate glucuronyl transferases
    catalyze the transfer of an activated glucuronic-acid molecule to aromatic alcohols, aliphatic
    alcohols, carboxylic acids, amines and free sulfhydryl groups. Further information on
    metabolism may be obtained from The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics, 9th Edition,
    McGraw-Hill (1996). Metabolites of the compounds disclosed herein can be identified either by
30  administration of compounds to a host and analysis of tissue samples from the host, or by
    incubation of compounds with hepatic cells in vitro and analysis of the resulting compounds.
    Both methods are well known in the art. In some embodiments, metabolites of a compound are
    formed by oxidative processes and correspond to the corresponding hydroxy-containing
                                                          33

    compound. In some embodiments, a compound is metabolized to pharmacologically active
    metabolites.
    [001591          The term "modulate," as used herein, means to interact with a target either
    directly or indirectly so as to alter the activity of the target, including, by way of example only,
  5 to enhance the activity of the target, to inhibit the activity of the target, to limit the activity of the
    target, or to extend the activity of the target.
    [001601          As used herein, the term "modulator" refers to a compound that alters an activity
    of a molecule. For example, a modulator can cause an increase or decrease in the magnitude of a
    certain activity of a molecule compared to the magnitude of the activity in the absence of the
 to modulator. In certain embodiments, a modulator is an inhibitor, which decreases the magnitude
    of one or more activities of a molecule. In certain embodiments, an inhibitor completely
    prevents one or more activities of a molecule. In certain embodiments, a modulator is an
    activator, which increases the magnitude of at least one activity of a molecule. In certain
    embodiments the presence of a modulator results in an activity that does not occur in the
  5 absence of the modulator.
    [001611          As used herein, the term "selective binding compound" refers to a compound that
    selectively binds to any portion of one or more target proteins.
    [00162]          As used herein, the term "selectively binds" refers to the ability of a selective
    binding compound to bind to a target protein, such as, for example, Btk, with greater affinity
 !o than it binds to a non-target protein. In certain embodiments, specific binding refers to binding
    to a target with an affinity that is at least 10, 50, 100, 250, 500, 1000 or more times greater than
    the affinity for a non-target.
    [001631          As used herein, the term "selective modulator" refers to a compound that
    selectively modulates a target activity relative to a non-target activity. In certain embodiments,
25  specific modulator refers to modulating a target activity at least 10, 50, 100, 250, 500, 1000
    times more than a non-target activity.
    [00164]          The term "substantially purified," as used herein, refers to a component of
    interest that may be substantially or essentially free of other components which normally
    accompany or interact with the component of interest prior to purification. By way of example
30  only, a component of interest may be "substantially purified" when the preparation of the
    component of interest contains less than about 30%, less than about 25%, less than about 20%,
    less than about 15%, less than about 10%, less than about 5%, less than about 4%, less than
    about 3%, less than about 2%, or less than about 1%(by dry weight) of contaminating
                                                           34

    components. Thus, a "substantially purified" component of interest may have a purity level of
    about 70%, about 75%, about 80%, about 85%, about 90%, about 95%, about 96%, about 97%,
    about 98%, about 99% or greater.
    [001651          The term "subject" as used herein, refers to an animal which is the object of
  5 treatment, observation or experiment. By way of example only, a subject may be, but is not
    limited to, a mammal including, but not limited to, a human.
    [00166]          As used herein, the term "target activity" refers to a biological activity capable of
    being modulated by a selective modulator. Certain exemplary target activities include, but are
    not limited to, binding affinity, signal transduction, enzymatic activity, tumor growth, effects on
 to particular biomarkers related to B-cell lymphoproliferative disorder pathology.
    [001671          As used herein, the term "target protein" refers to a molecule or a portion of a
    protein capable of being bound by a selective binding compound. In certain embodiments, a
    target protein is Btk.
    [00168]          The terms "treat," "treating" or "treatment", as used herein, include alleviating,
 [5 abating or ameliorating a disease or condition, or symptoms thereof; managing a disease or
    condition, or symptoms thereof; preventing additional symptoms; ameliorating or preventing the
    underlying metabolic causes of symptoms; inhibiting the disease or condition, e.g., arresting the
    development of the disease or condition; relieving the disease or condition; causing regression of
    the disease or condition, relieving a condition caused by the disease or condition; or stopping the
 !o symptoms of the disease or condition. The terms "treat," "treating" or "treatment", include, but
    are not limited to, prophylactic and/or therapeutic treatments.
    [00169]          As used herein, the IC 50 refers to an amount, concentration or dosage of a
    particular test compound that achieves a 50% inhibition of a maximal response, such as
    inhibition of Btk, in an assay that measures such response.
25  [001701          As used herein, EC50 refers to a dosage, concentration or amount of a particular
    test compound that elicits a dose-dependent response at 50% of maximal expression of a
    particular response that is induced, provoked or potentiated by the particular test compound.
    Hematological Malignancies
    [001711          Disclosed herein, in certain embodiments, is a method for treating a
30  hematological malignancy in an individual in need thereof, comprising: (a) administering to the
    individual an amount of an irreversible Btk inhibitor sufficient to mobilize a plurality of cells
    from the malignancy; and (b) analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells. In some embodiments,
    the amount of the irreversible Btk inhibitor is sufficient to induce lymphocytosis of a plurality of
                                                          35

    cells from the malignancy. In some embodiments, the hematological malignancy is CLL. In
    some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells comprises measuring the
    peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells. In some embodiments, the
    method further comprises administering a second cancer treatment regimen after the peripheral
  5 blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells increases as compared to the
    concentration before administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, administering
    the second cancer treatment regimen occurs after a subsequent decrease in peripheral blood
    concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells. In some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized
    plurality of cells comprises measuring the duration of an increase in the peripheral blood
 t0 concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells as compared to the concentration before
    administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, the method further comprises
    administering a second cancer treatment regimen after the peripheral blood concentration of the
    mobilized plurality of cells has increased for a predetermined length of time. In some
    embodiments, analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells comprises counting the number of
 [5 mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood. In some embodiments, the method further
    comprises administering a second cancer treatment regimen after the number of mobilized
    plurality of cells in the peripheral blood increases as compared to the concentration before
    administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, administering the second cancer
    treatment regimen occurs after a subsequent decrease in the number of mobilized plurality of
 !0 cells in the peripheral blood. In some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells
    comprises measuring the duration of an increase in the number of mobilized plurality of cells in
    the peripheral blood as compared to the number before administration of the Btk inhibitor. In
    some embodiments, the method further comprises administering a second cancer treatment
    regimen after the number of mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood has increased for
25  a predetermined length of time. In some embodiments, the hematological malignancy is a
    chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL), high risk CLL, or a
    non-CLL/SLL lymphoma. In some embodiments, the hematological malignancy is follicular
    lymphoma, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), mantle cell lymphoma, Waldenstrom's
    macroglobulinemia, multiple myeloma, marginal zone lymphoma, Burkitt's lymphoma, non
30  Burkitt high grade B cell lymphoma, or extranodal marginal zone B cell lymphoma. In some
    embodiments, the hematological malignancy is acute or chronic myelogenous (or myeloid)
    leukemia, myelodysplastic syndrome, or acute lymphoblastic leukemia. In some embodiments,
    the hematological malignancy is relapsed or refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL),
                                                         36

    relapsed or refractory mantle cell lymphoma, relapsed or refractory follicular lymphoma,
    relapsed or refractory CLL; relapsed or refractory SLL; relapsed or refractory multiple
    myeloma. In some embodiments, the hematological malignancy is a hematological malignancy
    that is classified as high-risk. In some embodiments, the hematological malignancy is high risk
  5 CLL or high risk SLL.
    [00172]          B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders (BCLDs) are neoplasms of the blood and
    encompass, inter alia, non-Hodgkin lymphoma, multiple myeloma, and leukemia. BCLDs can
    originate either in the lymphatic tissues (as in the case of lymphoma) or in the bone marrow (as
    in the case of leukemia and myeloma), and they all are involved with the uncontrolled growth of
 to lymphocytes or white blood cells. There are many subtypes of BCLD, e.g., chronic lymphocytic
    leukemia (CLL) and non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL). The disease course and treatment of
    BCLD is dependent on the BCLD subtype; however, even within each subtype the clinical
    presentation, morphologic appearance, and response to therapy is heterogeneous.
    [001731          Malignant lymphomas are neoplastic transformations of cells that reside
 [5 predominantly within lymphoid tissues. Two groups of malignant lymphomas are Hodgkin's
    lymphoma and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). Both types of lymphomas infiltrate
    reticuloendothelial tissues. However, they differ in the neoplastic cell of origin, site of disease,
    presence of systemic symptoms, and response to treatment (Freedman et al., "Non-Hodgkin's
    Lymphomas" Chapter 134, Cancer Medicine, (an approved publication of the American Cancer
 !o Society, B.C. Decker Inc., Hamilton, Ontario, 2003).
    Non-Hodgkin's Lvmphomas
    [00174]          Disclosed herein, in certain embodiments, is a method for treating a non
    Hodgkin's lymphoma in an individual in need thereof, comprising: (a) administering to the
    individual an amount of an irreversible Btk inhibitor sufficient to mobilize a plurality of cells
25  from the malignancy; and (b) analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells. In some embodiments,
    the amount of the irreversible Btk inhibitor is sufficient to induce lymphocytosis of a plurality of
    cells from the malignancy. In some embodiments, the hematological malignancy is CLL. In
    some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells comprises measuring the
    peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells. In some embodiments, the
30  method further comprises administering a second cancer treatment regimen after the peripheral
    blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells increases as compared to the
    concentration before administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, administering
    the second cancer treatment regimen occurs after a subsequent decrease in peripheral blood
                                                         37

    concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells. In some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized
    plurality of cells comprises measuring the duration of an increase in the peripheral blood
    concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells as compared to the concentration before
    administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, the method further comprises
  5 administering a second cancer treatment regimen after the peripheral blood concentration of the
    mobilized plurality of cells has increased for a predetermined length of time. In some
    embodiments, analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells comprises counting the number of
    mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood. In some embodiments, the method further
    comprises administering a second cancer treatment regimen after the number of mobilized
 to plurality of cells in the peripheral blood increases as compared to the concentration before
    administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, administering the second cancer
    treatment regimen occurs after a subsequent decrease in the number of mobilized plurality of
    cells in the peripheral blood. In some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells
    comprises measuring the duration of an increase in the number of mobilized plurality of cells in
 t5 the peripheral blood as compared to the number before administration of the Btk inhibitor. In
    some embodiments, the method further comprises administering a second cancer treatment
    regimen after the number of mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood has increased for
    a predetermined length of time.
    [001751          Further disclosed herein, in certain embodiments, is a method for treating
 !o relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in an individual in need thereof, comprising:
    administering to the individual a therapeutically-effective amount of (R)-1-(3-(4-amino-3-(4
    phenoxyphenyl)- 1H-pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidin- 1-yl)piperidin-1 -yl)prop-2-en-1-one. In some
    embodiments, the non-Hodgkin's lymphoma is relapsed or refractory diffuse large B-cell
    lymphoma (DLBCL), relapsed or refractory mantle cell lymphoma, or relapsed or refractory
25  follicular lymphoma.
    [00176]          Non-Hodgkin lymphomas (NHL) are a diverse group of malignancies that are
    predominately of B-cell origin. NHL may develop in any organs associated with lymphatic
    system such as spleen, lymph nodes or tonsils and can occur at any age. NHL is often marked by
    enlarged lymph nodes, fever, and weight loss. NHL is classified as either B-cell or T-cell NHL.
30  Lymphomas related to lymphoproliferative disorders following bone marrow or stem cell
    transplantation are usually B-cell NHL. In the Working Formulation classification scheme, NHL
    has been divided into low-, intermediate-, and high-grade categories by virtue of their natural
    histories (see "The Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma Pathologic Classification Project," Cancer
                                                         38

    49(1982):2112-2135). The low-grade lymphomas are indolent, with a median survival of 5 to 10
    years (Homing and Rosenberg (1984) N. Engl. J. Med. 311:1471-1475). Although
    chemotherapy can induce remissions in the majority of indolent lymphomas, cures are rare and
    most patients eventually relapse, requiring further therapy. The intermediate- and high-grade
  5 lymphomas are more aggressive tumors, but they have a greater chance for cure with
    chemotherapy. However, a significant proportion of these patients will relapse and require
    further treatment.
    [001771         A non-limiting list of the B-cell NHL includes Burkitt's lymphoma (e.g.,
    Endemic Burkitt's Lymphoma and Sporadic Burkitt's Lymphoma), Cutaneous B-Cell
 to Lymphoma, Cutaneous Marginal Zone Lymphoma (MZL), Diffuse Large Cell Lymphoma
    (DLBCL), Diffuse Mixed Small and Large Cell Lympoma, Diffuse Small Cleaved Cell, Diffuse
    Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma, Extranodal Marginal Zone B-cell lymphoma, follicular
    lymphoma, Follicular Small Cleaved Cell (Grade 1), Follicular Mixed Small Cleaved and Large
    Cell (Grade 2), Follicular Large Cell (Grade 3), Intravascular Large B-Cell Lymphoma,
 [5 Intravascular Lymphomatosis, Large Cell Immunoblastic Lymphoma, Large Cell Lymphoma
    (LCL), Lymphoblastic Lymphoma, MALT Lymphoma, Mantle Cell Lymphoma (MCL),
    immunoblastic large cell lymphoma, precursor B-lymphoblastic lymphoma, mantle cell
    lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)/small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL),
    extranodal marginal zone B-cell lymphoma-mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT)
 !o lymphoma, Mediastinal Large B-Cell Lymphoma, nodal marginal zone B-cell lymphoma,
    splenic marginal zone B-cell lymphoma, primary mediastinal B-cell lymphoma,
    lymphoplasmocytic lymphoma, hairy cell leukemia, Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia, and
    primary central nervous system (CNS) lymphoma. Additional non-Hodgkin's lymphomas are
    contemplated within the scope of the present invention and apparent to those of ordinary skill in
25  the art.
    DLBCL
    [00178]         Disclosed herein, in certain embodiments, is a method for treating a DLCBL in
    an individual in need thereof, comprising: (a) administering to the individual an amount of an
    irreversible Btk inhibitor sufficient to mobilize a plurality of cells from the malignancy; and (b)
30  analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells. In some embodiments, the amount of the irreversible
    Btk inhibitor is sufficient to induce lymphocytosis of a plurality of cells from the malignancy. In
    some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells comprises measuring the
    peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells. In some embodiments, the
                                                         39

    method further comprises administering a second cancer treatment regimen after the peripheral
    blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells increases as compared to the
    concentration before administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, administering
    the second cancer treatment regimen occurs after a subsequent decrease in peripheral blood
  5 concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells. In some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized
    plurality of cells comprises measuring the duration of an increase in the peripheral blood
    concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells as compared to the concentration before
    administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, the method further comprises
    administering a second cancer treatment regimen after the peripheral blood concentration of the
 to mobilized plurality of cells has increased for a predetermined length of time. In some
    embodiments, analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells comprises counting the number of
    mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood. In some embodiments, the method further
    comprises administering a second cancer treatment regimen after the number of mobilized
    plurality of cells in the peripheral blood increases as compared to the concentration before
 [5 administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, administering the second cancer
    treatment regimen occurs after a subsequent decrease in the number of mobilized plurality of
    cells in the peripheral blood. In some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells
    comprises measuring the duration of an increase in the number of mobilized plurality of cells in
    the peripheral blood as compared to the number before administration of the Btk inhibitor. In
 !o some embodiments, the method further comprises administering a second cancer treatment
    regimen after the number of mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood has increased for
    a predetermined length of time.
    [001791          As used herein, the term "Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL)" refers to a
    neoplasm of the germinal center B lymphocytes with a diffuse growth pattern and a high
25  intermediate proliferation index. DLBCLs represent approximately 30% of all lymphomas and
    may present with several morphological variants including the centroblastic, immunoblastic, T
    cell/histiocyte rich, anaplastic and plasmoblastic subtypes. Genetic tests have shown that there
    are different subtypes of DLBCL. These subtypes seem to have different outlooks (prognoses)
    and responses to treatment. DLBCL can affect any age group but occurs mostly in older people
30  (the average age is mid-60s).
    [00180]          Disclosed herein, in certain embodiments, is a method for treating diffuse large
    B-cell lymphoma, activated B cell-like subtype (ABC-DLBCL), in an individual in need thereof,
    comprising: administering to the individual an irreversible Btk inhibitor in an amount from 300
                                                         40

mg/day up to, and including, 1000 mg/day. The ABC subtype of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma
(ABC-DLBCL) is thought to arise from post germinal center B cells that are arrested during
plasmatic differentiation. The ABC subtype of DLBCL (ABC-DLBCL) accounts for
approximately 30% total DLBCL diagnoses. It is considered the least curable of the DLBCL
molecular subtypes and, as such, patients diagnosed with the ABC-DLBCL typically display
significantly reduced survival rates compared with individuals with other types of DLCBL.
ABC-DLBCL is most commonly associated with chromosomal translocations deregulating the
germinal center master regulator BCL6 and with mutations inactivating the PRDM 1 gene, which
encodes a transcriptional repressor required for plasma cell differentiation.
[00181]         A particularly relevant signaling pathway in the pathogenesis of ABC-DLBCL is
the one mediated by the nuclear factor (NF)-wB transcription complex. The NF-wB family
comprises 5 members (p50, p52, p65, c-rel and RelB) that form homo- and heterodimers and
function as transcriptional factors to mediate a variety of proliferation, apoptosis, inflammatory
and immune responses and are critical for normal B-cell development and survival. NF-KB is
widely used by eukaryotic cells as a regulator of genes that control cell proliferation and cell
survival. As such, many different types of human tumors have misregulated NF-KB: that is, NF
KB is constitutively active. Active NF-KB turns on the expression of genes that keep the cell
proliferating and protect the cell from conditions that would otherwise cause it to die via
apoptosis.
[00182]         The dependence of ABC DLBCLs on NF-kB depends on a signaling pathway
upstream of IkB kinase comprised of CARD 11, BCL10 and MALTI (the CBM complex).
Interference with the CBM pathway extinguishes NF-kB signaling in ABC DLBCL cells and
induces apoptosis. The molecular basis for constitutive activity of the NF-kB pathway is a
subject of current investigation but some somatic alterations to the genome of ABC DLBCLs
clearly invoke this pathway. For example, somatic mutations of the coiled-coil domain of
CARD 11 in DLBCL render this signaling scaffold protein able to spontaneously nucleate
protein-protein interaction with MALT 1 and BCL 10, causing IKK activity and NF-kB
activation. Constitutive activity of the B cell receptor signaling pathway has been implicated in
the activation of NF-kB in ABC DLBCLs with wild type CARD 11, and this is associated with
mutations within the cytoplasmic tails of the B cell receptor subunits CD79A and CD79B.
Oncogenic activating mutations in the signaling adapter MYD88 activate NF-kB and synergize
with B cell receptor signaling in sustaining the survival of ABC DLBCL cells. In addition,
                                                     41

inactivating mutations in a negative regulator of the NF-kB pathway, A20, occur almost
exclusively in ABC DLBCL.
[00183]         Indeed, genetic alterations affecting multiple components of the NF-KB signaling
pathway have been recently identified in more than 50% of ABC-DLBCL patients, where these
lesions promote constitutive NF-KB activation, thereby contributing to lymphoma growth. These
include mutations of CARD 11 (~10% of the cases), a lymphocyte-specific cytoplasmic
scaffolding protein that-together with MALT 1 and BCL1O-forms the BCR signalosome,
which relays signals from antigen receptors to the downstream mediators of NF-KB activation.
An even larger fraction of cases (~30%) carry biallelic genetic lesions inactivating the negative
NF-KB regulator A20. Further, high levels of expression of NF-KB target genes have been
observed in ABC-DLBCL tumor samples. See, e.g., U. Klein et al., (2008), Nature Reviews
Immunology 8:22-23; R.E. Davis et al., (2001), JournalofExperimentalMedicine 194:1861
1874; G. Lentz et al., (2008), Science 319:1676-1679; M. Compagno et al., (2009), Nature
459:712-721; and L. Srinivasan et al., (2009), Cell 139:573-586).
[00184]         DLBCL cells of the ABC subtype, such as OCI-Ly1O, have chronic active BCR
signalling and are very sensitive to the Btk inhibitors described herein. The irreversible Btk
inhibitors described herein potently and irreversibly inhibit the growth of OCI-Lyl 0 (EC50
continuous exposure    =  10 nM, EC50 1 hour pulse    =  50 nM). In addition, induction of apoptosis,
as shown by capsase activation, Annexin-V flow cytometry and increase in sub-GO fraction is
observed in OCILy1O. Both sensitive and resistant cells express Btk at similar levels, and the
active site of Btk is fully occupied by the inhibitor in both as shown using a fluorescently
labeled affinity probe. OCI-Lyl 0 cells are shown to have chronically active BCR signalling to
NF-kB which is dose dependently inhibited by the Btk inhibitors described herein. The activity
of Btk inhibitors in the cell lines studied herein are also characterized by comparing signal
transduction profiles (Btk, PLCy, ERK, NF-kB, AKT), cytokine secretion profiles and mRNA
expression profiles, both with and without BCR stimulation, and observed significant
differences in these profiles that lead to clinical biomarkers that identify the most sensitive
patient populations to Btk inhibitor treatment. See U.S. Patent No. 7,711,492 and Staudt et al.,
Nature, Vol. 463, Jan. 7, 2010, pp. 88-92, the contents of which are incorporated by reference in
their entirety.
FollicularLymphoma
[001851         Disclosed herein, in certain embodiments, is a method for treating a follicular
lymphoma in an individual in need thereof, comprising: (a) administering to the individual an
                                                      42

    amount of an irreversible Btk inhibitor sufficient to mobilize a plurality of cells from the
    malignancy; and (b) analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells. In some embodiments, the
    amount of the irreversible Btk inhibitor is sufficient to induce lymphocytosis of a plurality of
    cells from the malignancy. In some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells
  5 comprises measuring the peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells. In
    some embodiments, the method further comprises administering a second cancer treatment
    regimen after the peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells increases as
    compared to the concentration before administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments,
    administering the second cancer treatment regimen occurs after a subsequent decrease in
 to peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells. In some embodiments,
    analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells comprises measuring the duration of an increase in the
    peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells as compared to the
    concentration before administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, the method
    further comprises administering a second cancer treatment regimen after the peripheral blood
 [5 concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells has increased for a predetermined length of
    time. In some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells comprises counting the
    number of mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood. In some embodiments, the
    method further comprises administering a second cancer treatment regimen after the number of
    mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood increases as compared to the concentration
 !o before administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, administering the second
    cancer treatment regimen occurs after a subsequent decrease in the number of mobilized
    plurality of cells in the peripheral blood. In some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized
    plurality of cells comprises measuring the duration of an increase in the number of mobilized
    plurality of cells in the peripheral blood as compared to the number before administration of the
25  Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, the method further comprises administering a second
    cancer treatment regimen after the number of mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood
    has increased for a predetermined length of time.
    [001861          As used herein, the term "follicular lymphoma" refers to any of several types of
    non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in which the lymphomatous cells are clustered into nodules or
30  follicles. The term follicular is used because the cells tend to grow in a circular, or nodular,
    pattern in lymph nodes. The average age for people with this lymphoma is about 60.
    CLL/SLL
                                                         43

    [001871          Disclosed herein, in certain embodiments, is a method for treating a CLL or SLL
    in an individual in need thereof, comprising: (a) administering to the individual an amount of an
    irreversible Btk inhibitor sufficient to mobilize a plurality of cells from the malignancy; and (b)
    analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells. In some embodiments, the CLL or SLL is high-risk.
  5 In some embodiments, the amount of the irreversible Btk inhibitor is sufficient to induce
    lymphocytosis of a plurality of cells from the malignancy. In some embodiments, analyzing the
    mobilized plurality of cells comprises measuring the peripheral blood concentration of the
    mobilized plurality of cells. In some embodiments, the method further comprises administering
    a second cancer treatment regimen after the peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized
 t0 plurality of cells increases as compared to the concentration before administration of the Btk
    inhibitor. In some embodiments, administering the second cancer treatment regimen occurs after
    a subsequent decrease in peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells. In
    some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells comprises measuring the duration
    of an increase in the peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells as
  5 compared to the concentration before administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments,
    the method further comprises administering a second cancer treatment regimen after the
    peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells has increased for a
    predetermined length of time. In some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells
    comprises counting the number of mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood. In some
 !o embodiments, the method further comprises administering a second cancer treatment regimen
    after the number of mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood increases as compared to
    the concentration before administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments,
    administering the second cancer treatment regimen occurs after a subsequent decrease in the
    number of mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood. In some embodiments, analyzing
25  the mobilized plurality of cells comprises measuring the duration of an increase in the number of
    mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood as compared to the number before
    administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, the method further comprises
    administering a second cancer treatment regimen after the number of mobilized plurality of cells
    in the peripheral blood has increased for a predetermined length of time.
30  [00188]          Chronic lymphocytic leukemia and small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL) are
    commonly thought as the same disease with slightly different manifestations. Where the
    cancerous cells gather determines whether it is called CLL or SLL. When the cancer cells are
    primarily found in the lymph nodes, lima bean shaped structures of the lymphatic system (a
                                                         44

    system primarily of tiny vessels found in the body), it is called SLL. SLL accounts for about 5%
    to 10% of all lymphomas. When most of the cancer cells are in the bloodstream and the bone
    marrow, it is called CLL.
    [001891          Both CLL and SLL are slow-growing diseases, although CLL, which is much
  5 more common, tends to grow slower. CLL and SLL are treated the same way. They are usually
    not considered curable with standard treatments, but depending on the stage and growth rate of
    the disease, most patients live longer than 10 years. Occasionally over time, these slow-growing
    lymphomas may transform into a more aggressive type of lymphoma.
    [00190]          Chronic lymphoid leukemia (CLL) is the most common type of leukemia. It is
 t0 estimated that 100,760 people in the United States are living with or are in remission from CLL.
    Most (>75%) people newly diagnosed with CLL are over the age of 50. Currently CLL
    treatment focuses on controlling the disease and its symptoms rather than on an outright cure.
    CLL is treated by chemotherapy, radiation therapy, biological therapy, or bone marrow
    transplantation. Symptoms are sometimes treated surgically (splenectomy removal of enlarged
 t5 spleen) or by radiation therapy ("de-bulking" swollen lymph nodes). Though CLL progresses
    slowly in most cases, it is considered generally incurable. Certain CLLs are classified as high
    risk. As used herein, "high risk CLL" means CLL characterized by at least one of the following
    1) 17p 13-; 2) 11q22-; 3) unmutated IgVH together with ZAP-70+ and/or CD38+; or 4) trisomy
    12.
 !0 [00191]          CLL treatment is typically administered when the patient's clinical symptoms or
    blood counts indicate that the disease has progressed to a point where it may affect the patient's
    quality of life.
    [00192]          Small lymphocytic leukemia (SLL) is very similar to CLL described supra, and is
    also a cancer of B-cells. In SLL the abnormal lymphocytes mainly affect the lymph nodes.
25  However, in CLL the abnormal cells mainly affect the blood and the bone marrow. The spleen
    may be affected in both conditions. SLL accounts for about lin 25 of all cases of non-Hodgkin
    lymphoma. It can occur at any time from young adulthood to old age, but is rare under the age of
    50. SLL is considered an indolent lymphoma. This means that the disease progresses very
    slowly, and patients tend to live many years after diagnosis. However, most patients are
30  diagnosed with advanced disease, and although SLL responds well to a variety of chemotherapy
    drugs, it is generally considered to be incurable. Although some cancers tend to occur more
    often in one gender or the other, cases and deaths due to SLL are evenly split between men and
    women. The average age at the time of diagnosis is 60 years.
                                                        45

    [001931         Although SLL is indolent, it is persistently progressive. The usual pattern of this
    disease is one of high response rates to radiation therapy and/or chemotherapy, with a period of
    disease remission. This is followed months or years later by an inevitable relapse. Re-treatment
    leads to a response again, but again the disease will relapse. This means that although the short
  5 term prognosis of SLL is quite good, over time, many patients develop fatal complications of
    recurrent disease. Considering the age of the individuals typically diagnosed with CLL and SLL,
    there is a need in the art for a simple and effective treatment of the disease with minimum side
    effects that do not impede on the patient's quality of life. The instant invention fulfills this long
    standing need in the art.
 1o Mantle Cell Lymphoma
    [00194]         Disclosed herein, in certain embodiments, is a method for treating a Mantle cell
    lymphoma in an individual in need thereof, comprising: (a) administering to the individual an
    amount of an irreversible Btk inhibitor sufficient to mobilize a plurality of cells from the
    malignancy; and (b) analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells. In some embodiments, the
  5 amount of the irreversible Btk inhibitor is sufficient to induce lymphocytosis of a plurality of
    cells from the malignancy. In some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells
    comprises measuring the peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells. In
    some embodiments, the method further comprises administering a second cancer treatment
    regimen after the peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells increases as
 !o compared to the concentration before administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments,
    administering the second cancer treatment regimen occurs after a subsequent decrease in
    peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells. In some embodiments,
    analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells comprises measuring the duration of an increase in the
    peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells as compared to the
25  concentration before administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, the method
    further comprises administering a second cancer treatment regimen after the peripheral blood
    concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells has increased for a predetermined length of
    time. In some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells comprises counting the
    number of mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood. In some embodiments, the
30  method further comprises administering a second cancer treatment regimen after the number of
    mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood increases as compared to the concentration
    before administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, administering the second
    cancer treatment regimen occurs after a subsequent decrease in the number of mobilized
                                                         46

    plurality of cells in the peripheral blood. In some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized
    plurality of cells comprises measuring the duration of an increase in the number of mobilized
    plurality of cells in the peripheral blood as compared to the number before administration of the
    Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, the method further comprises administering a second
  5 cancer treatment regimen after the number of mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood
    has increased for a predetermined length of time.
    [001951          As used herein, the term, "Mantle cell lymphoma" refers to a subtype of B-cell
    lymphoma, due to CD5 positive antigen-naive pregerminal center B-cell within the mantle zone
    that surrounds normal germinal center follicles. MCL cells generally over-express cyclin D1 due
 to to a t(1 1:14) chromosomal translocation in the DNA. More specifically, the translocation is at
    t(1 1;14)(ql3;q32). Only about 5% of lymphomas are of this type. The cells are small to medium
    in size. Men are affected most often. The average age of patients is in the early 60s. The
    lymphoma is usually widespread when it is diagnosed, involving lymph nodes, bone marrow,
    and, very often, the spleen. Mantle cell lymphoma is not a very fast growing lymphoma, but is
  5 difficult to treat.
    MarginalZone B-cell Lymphoma
    [00196]          Disclosed herein, in certain embodiments, is a method for treating a marginal
    zone B-cell lymphoma in an individual in need thereof, comprising: (a) administering to the
    individual an amount of an irreversible Btk inhibitor sufficient to mobilize a plurality of cells
 !o from the malignancy; and (b) analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells. In some embodiments,
    the amount of the irreversible Btk inhibitor is sufficient to induce lymphocytosis of a plurality of
    cells from the malignancy. In some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells
    comprises measuring the peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells. In
    some embodiments, the method further comprises administering a second cancer treatment
25  regimen after the peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells increases as
    compared to the concentration before administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments,
    administering the second cancer treatment regimen occurs after a subsequent decrease in
    peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells. In some embodiments,
    analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells comprises measuring the duration of an increase in the
30  peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells as compared to the
    concentration before administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, the method
    further comprises administering a second cancer treatment regimen after the peripheral blood
    concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells has increased for a predetermined length of
                                                        47

    time. In some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells comprises counting the
    number of mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood. In some embodiments, the
    method further comprises administering a second cancer treatment regimen after the number of
    mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood increases as compared to the concentration
  5 before administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, administering the second
    cancer treatment regimen occurs after a subsequent decrease in the number of mobilized
    plurality of cells in the peripheral blood. In some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized
    plurality of cells comprises measuring the duration of an increase in the number of mobilized
    plurality of cells in the peripheral blood as compared to the number before administration of the
 to Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, the method further comprises administering a second
    cancer treatment regimen after the number of mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood
    has increased for a predetermined length of time.
    [001971          As used herein, the term "marginal zone B-cell lymphoma" refers to a group of
    related B-cell neoplasms that involve the lymphoid tissues in the marginal zone, the patchy area
  5 outside the follicular mantle zone. Marginal zone lymphomas account for about 50% to 10% of
    lymphomas. The cells in these lymphomas look small under the microscope. There are 3 main
    types of marginal zone lymphomas including extranodal marginal zone B-cell lymphomas,
    nodal marginal zone B-cell lymphoma, and splenic marginal zone lymphoma.
    MALT
 !o [00198]          Disclosed herein, in certain embodiments, is a method for treating a MALT in an
    individual in need thereof, comprising: (a) administering to the individual an amount of an
    irreversible Btk inhibitor sufficient to mobilize a plurality of cells from the malignancy; and (b)
    analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells. In some embodiments, the amount of the irreversible
    Btk inhibitor is sufficient to induce lymphocytosis of a plurality of cells from the malignancy. In
25  some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells comprises measuring the
    peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells. In some embodiments, the
    method further comprises administering a second cancer treatment regimen after the peripheral
    blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells increases as compared to the
    concentration before administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, administering
30  the second cancer treatment regimen occurs after a subsequent decrease in peripheral blood
    concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells. In some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized
    plurality of cells comprises measuring the duration of an increase in the peripheral blood
    concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells as compared to the concentration before
                                                         48

    administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, the method further comprises
    administering a second cancer treatment regimen after the peripheral blood concentration of the
    mobilized plurality of cells has increased for a predetermined length of time. In some
    embodiments, analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells comprises counting the number of
  5 mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood. In some embodiments, the method further
    comprises administering a second cancer treatment regimen after the number of mobilized
    plurality of cells in the peripheral blood increases as compared to the concentration before
    administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, administering the second cancer
    treatment regimen occurs after a subsequent decrease in the number of mobilized plurality of
 t0 cells in the peripheral blood. In some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells
    comprises measuring the duration of an increase in the number of mobilized plurality of cells in
    the peripheral blood as compared to the number before administration of the Btk inhibitor. In
    some embodiments, the method further comprises administering a second cancer treatment
    regimen after the number of mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood has increased for
  5 a predetermined length of time.
    [00199]          The term "mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma", as used
    herein, refers to extranodal manifestations of marginal-zone lymphomas. Most MALT
    lymphoma are a low grade, although a minority either manifest initially as intermediate-grade
    non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) or evolve from the low-grade form. Most of the MALT
 !o lymphoma occur in the stomach, and roughly 70% of gastric MALT lymphoma are associated
    with Helicobacter pylori infection. Several cytogenetic abnormalities have been identified, the
    most common being trisomy 3 or t(1 1;18). Many of these other MALT lymphoma have also
    been linked to infections with bacteria or viruses. The average age of patients with MALT
    lymphoma is about 60.
25  Nodal MarginalZone B-Cell Lymphoma
    [00200]          Disclosed herein, in certain embodiments, is a method for treating a nodal
    marginal zone B-cell lymphoma in an individual in need thereof, comprising: (a) administering
    to the individual an amount of an irreversible Btk inhibitor sufficient to mobilize a plurality of
    cells from the malignancy; and (b) analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells. In some
30  embodiments, the amount of the irreversible Btk inhibitor is sufficient to induce lymphocytosis
    of a plurality of cells from the malignancy. In some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized
    plurality of cells comprises measuring the peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized
    plurality of cells. In some embodiments, the method further comprises administering a second
                                                         49

    cancer treatment regimen after the peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of
    cells increases as compared to the concentration before administration of the Btk inhibitor. In
    some embodiments, administering the second cancer treatment regimen occurs after a
    subsequent decrease in peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells. In
  5 some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells comprises measuring the duration
    of an increase in the peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells as
    compared to the concentration before administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments,
    the method further comprises administering a second cancer treatment regimen after the
    peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells has increased for a
 to predetermined length of time. In some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells
    comprises counting the number of mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood. In some
    embodiments, the method further comprises administering a second cancer treatment regimen
    after the number of mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood increases as compared to
    the concentration before administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments,
  5 administering the second cancer treatment regimen occurs after a subsequent decrease in the
    number of mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood. In some embodiments, analyzing
    the mobilized plurality of cells comprises measuring the duration of an increase in the number of
    mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood as compared to the number before
    administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, the method further comprises
 !o administering a second cancer treatment regimen after the number of mobilized plurality of cells
    in the peripheral blood has increased for a predetermined length of time.
    [00201]         The term "nodal marginal zone B-cell lymphoma" refers to an indolent B-cell
    lymphoma that is found mostly in the lymph nodes. The disease is rare and only accounts for 10%
    of all Non-Hodgkin's Lymphomas (NHL). It is most commonly diagnosed in older patients,
25  with women more susceptible than men. The disease is classified as a marginal zone lymphoma
    because the mutation occurs in the marginal zone of the B-cells. Due to its confinement in the
    lymph nodes, this disease is also classified as nodal.
    Splenic MarginalZone B-Cell Lymphoma
    [00202]         Disclosed herein, in certain embodiments, is a method for treating a splenic
30  marginal zone B-cell lymphoma in an individual in need thereof, comprising: (a) administering
    to the individual an amount of an irreversible Btk inhibitor sufficient to mobilize a plurality of
    cells from the malignancy; and (b) analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells. In some
    embodiments, the amount of the irreversible Btk inhibitor is sufficient to induce lymphocytosis
                                                        50

    of a plurality of cells from the malignancy. In some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized
    plurality of cells comprises measuring the peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized
    plurality of cells. In some embodiments, the method further comprises administering a second
    cancer treatment regimen after the peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of
  5 cells increases as compared to the concentration before administration of the Btk inhibitor. In
    some embodiments, administering the second cancer treatment regimen occurs after a
    subsequent decrease in peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells. In
    some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells comprises measuring the duration
    of an increase in the peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells as
 t0 compared to the concentration before administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments,
    the method further comprises administering a second cancer treatment regimen after the
    peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells has increased for a
    predetermined length of time. In some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells
    comprises counting the number of mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood. In some
  5 embodiments, the method further comprises administering a second cancer treatment regimen
    after the number of mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood increases as compared to
    the concentration before administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments,
    administering the second cancer treatment regimen occurs after a subsequent decrease in the
    number of mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood. In some embodiments, analyzing
 !o the mobilized plurality of cells comprises measuring the duration of an increase in the number of
    mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood as compared to the number before
    administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, the method further comprises
    administering a second cancer treatment regimen after the number of mobilized plurality of cells
    in the peripheral blood has increased for a predetermined length of time.
25  [00203]          The term "splenic marginal zone B-cell lymphoma" refers to specific low-grade
    small B-cell lymphoma that is incorporated in the World Health Organization classification.
    Characteristic features are splenomegaly, moderate lymphocytosis with villous morphology,
    intrasinusoidal pattern of involvement of various organs, especially bone marrow, and relative
    indolent course. Tumor progression with increase of blastic forms and aggressive behavior are
30  observed in a minority of patients. Molecular and cytogenetic studies have shown heterogeneous
    results probably because of the lack of standardized diagnostic criteria.
    Burkitt Lymphoma
                                                        51

    [002041          Disclosed herein, in certain embodiments, is a method for treating a Burkitt
    lymphoma in an individual in need thereof, comprising: (a) administering to the individual an
    amount of an irreversible Btk inhibitor sufficient to mobilize a plurality of cells from the
    malignancy; and (b) analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells. In some embodiments, the
  5 amount of the irreversible Btk inhibitor is sufficient to induce lymphocytosis of a plurality of
    cells from the malignancy. In some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells
    comprises measuring the peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells. In
    some embodiments, the method further comprises administering a second cancer treatment
    regimen after the peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells increases as
 t0 compared to the concentration before administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments,
    administering the second cancer treatment regimen occurs after a subsequent decrease in
    peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells. In some embodiments,
    analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells comprises measuring the duration of an increase in the
    peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells as compared to the
  5 concentration before administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, the method
    further comprises administering a second cancer treatment regimen after the peripheral blood
    concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells has increased for a predetermined length of
    time. In some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells comprises counting the
    number of mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood. In some embodiments, the
 !o method further comprises administering a second cancer treatment regimen after the number of
    mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood increases as compared to the concentration
    before administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, administering the second
    cancer treatment regimen occurs after a subsequent decrease in the number of mobilized
    plurality of cells in the peripheral blood. In some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized
25  plurality of cells comprises measuring the duration of an increase in the number of mobilized
    plurality of cells in the peripheral blood as compared to the number before administration of the
    Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, the method further comprises administering a second
    cancer treatment regimen after the number of mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood
    has increased for a predetermined length of time.
30  [00205]          The term "Burkitt lymphoma" refers to a type of Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
    (NHL) that commonly affects children. It is a highly aggressive type of B-cell lymphoma that
    often starts and involves body parts other than lymph nodes. In spite of its fast-growing nature,
                                                        52

    Burkitt's lymphoma is often curable with modem intensive therapies. There are two broad types
    of Burkitt's lymphoma - the sporadic and the endemic varieties:
    [002061         Endemic Burkitt's lymphoma: The disease involves children much more than
    adults, and is related to Epstein Barr Virus (EBV) infection in 95% cases. It occurs primarily is
  5 equatorial Africa, where about half of all childhood cancers are Burkitt's lymphoma. It
    characteristically has a high chance of involving the jawbone, a rather distinctive feature that is
    rare in sporadic Burkitt's. It also commonly involves the abdomen.
    [002071          Sporadic Burkitt's lymphoma: The type of Burkitt's lymphoma that affects the
    rest of the world, including Europe and the Americas is the sporadic type. Here too, it's mainly a
 t0 disease in children. The link between Epstein Barr Virus (EBV) is not as strong as with the
    endemic variety, though direct evidence of EBV infection is present in one out of five patients.
    More than the involvement of lymph nodes, it is the abdomen that is notably affected in more
    than 90% of the children. Bone marrow involvement is more common than in the sporadic
    variety.
  5 Waldenstrom Macroglobulinemia
    [002081         Disclosed herein, in certain embodiments, is a method for treating a Waldenstrom
    macroglobulinemia in an individual in need thereof, comprising: (a) administering to the
    individual an amount of an irreversible Btk inhibitor sufficient to mobilize a plurality of cells
    from the malignancy; and (b) analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells. In some embodiments,
 !o the amount of the irreversible Btk inhibitor is sufficient to induce lymphocytosis of a plurality of
    cells from the malignancy. In some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells
    comprises measuring the peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells. In
    some embodiments, the method further comprises administering a second cancer treatment
    regimen after the peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells increases as
25  compared to the concentration before administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments,
    administering the second cancer treatment regimen occurs after a subsequent decrease in
    peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells. In some embodiments,
    analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells comprises measuring the duration of an increase in the
    peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells as compared to the
30  concentration before administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, the method
    further comprises administering a second cancer treatment regimen after the peripheral blood
    concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells has increased for a predetermined length of
    time. In some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells comprises counting the
                                                        53

    number of mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood. In some embodiments, the
    method further comprises administering a second cancer treatment regimen after the number of
    mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood increases as compared to the concentration
    before administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, administering the second
  5 cancer treatment regimen occurs after a subsequent decrease in the number of mobilized
    plurality of cells in the peripheral blood. In some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized
    plurality of cells comprises measuring the duration of an increase in the number of mobilized
    plurality of cells in the peripheral blood as compared to the number before administration of the
    Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, the method further comprises administering a second
 t0 cancer treatment regimen after the number of mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood
    has increased for a predetermined length of time.
    [00209]          The term "Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia", also known as lymphoplasmacytic
    lymphoma, is cancer involving a subtype of white blood cells called lymphocytes. It is
    characterized by an uncontrolled clonal proliferation of terminally differentiated B lymphocytes.
  5 It is also characterized by the lymphoma cells making an antibody called immunoglobulin M
    (IgM). The IgM antibodies circulate in the blood in large amounts, and cause the liquid part of
    the blood to thicken, like syrup. This can lead to decreased blood flow to many organs, which
    can cause problems with vision (because of poor circulation in blood vessels in the back of the
    eyes) and neurological problems (such as headache, dizziness, and confusion) caused by poor
 !o blood flow within the brain. Other symptoms can include feeling tired and weak, and a tendency
    to bleed easily. The underlying etiology is not fully understood but a number of risk factors have
    been identified, including the locus 6p2l.3 on chromosome 6. There is a 2- to 3-fold risk
    increase of developing WM in people with a personal history of autoimmune diseases with
    autoantibodies and particularly elevated risks associated with hepatitis, human
25  immunodeficiency virus, and rickettsiosis.
    Multiple Mveloma
    [00210]          Disclosed herein, in certain embodiments, is a method for treating a myeloma in
    an individual in need thereof, comprising: (a) administering to the individual an amount of an
    irreversible Btk inhibitor sufficient to mobilize a plurality of cells from the malignancy; and (b)
30  analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells. In some embodiments, the amount of the irreversible
    Btk inhibitor is sufficient to induce lymphocytosis of a plurality of cells from the malignancy. In
    some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells comprises measuring the
    peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells. In some embodiments, the
                                                         54

    method further comprises administering a second cancer treatment regimen after the peripheral
    blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells increases as compared to the
    concentration before administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, administering
    the second cancer treatment regimen occurs after a subsequent decrease in peripheral blood
  5 concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells. In some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized
    plurality of cells comprises measuring the duration of an increase in the peripheral blood
    concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells as compared to the concentration before
    administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, the method further comprises
    administering a second cancer treatment regimen after the peripheral blood concentration of the
 to mobilized plurality of cells has increased for a predetermined length of time. In some
    embodiments, analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells comprises counting the number of
    mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood. In some embodiments, the method further
    comprises administering a second cancer treatment regimen after the number of mobilized
    plurality of cells in the peripheral blood increases as compared to the concentration before
 [5 administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, administering the second cancer
    treatment regimen occurs after a subsequent decrease in the number of mobilized plurality of
    cells in the peripheral blood. In some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells
    comprises measuring the duration of an increase in the number of mobilized plurality of cells in
    the peripheral blood as compared to the number before administration of the Btk inhibitor. In
 !o some embodiments, the method further comprises administering a second cancer treatment
    regimen after the number of mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood has increased for
    a predetermined length of time.
    [00211]          Disclosed herein, in certain embodiments, is a method for treating a multiple
    myeloma in an individual in need thereof, comprising: (a) administering to the individual an
25  amount of an irreversible Btk inhibitor sufficient to mobilize a plurality of cells from the
    malignancy; and (b) analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells. In some embodiments, the
    amount of the irreversible Btk inhibitor is sufficient to induce lymphocytosis of a plurality of
    cells from the malignancy. In some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells
    comprises measuring the peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells. In
30  some embodiments, the method further comprises administering a second cancer treatment
    regimen after the peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells increases as
    compared to the concentration before administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments,
    administering the second cancer treatment regimen occurs after a subsequent decrease in
                                                         55

    peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells. In some embodiments,
    analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells comprises measuring the duration of an increase in the
    peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells as compared to the
    concentration before administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, the method
  5 further comprises administering a second cancer treatment regimen after the peripheral blood
    concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells has increased for a predetermined length of
    time. In some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells comprises counting the
    number of mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood. In some embodiments, the
    method further comprises administering a second cancer treatment regimen after the number of
 to mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood increases as compared to the concentration
    before administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, administering the second
    cancer treatment regimen occurs after a subsequent decrease in the number of mobilized
    plurality of cells in the peripheral blood. In some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized
    plurality of cells comprises measuring the duration of an increase in the number of mobilized
  5 plurality of cells in the peripheral blood as compared to the number before administration of the
    Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, the method further comprises administering a second
    cancer treatment regimen after the number of mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood
    has increased for a predetermined length of time.
    [00212]          Multiple myeloma, also known as MM, myeloma, plasma cell myeloma, or as
 !o Kahler's disease (after Otto Kahler) is a cancer of the white blood cells known as plasma cells. A
    type of B cell, plasma cells are a crucial part of the immune system responsible for the
    production of antibodies in humans and other vertebrates. They are produced in the bone
    marrow and are transported through the lymphatic system.
    Leukemia
25  [00213]          Disclosed herein, in certain embodiments, is a method for treating a leukemia in
    an individual in need thereof, comprising: (a) administering to the individual an amount of an
    irreversible Btk inhibitor sufficient to mobilize a plurality of cells from the malignancy; and (b)
    analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells. In some embodiments, the amount of the irreversible
    Btk inhibitor is sufficient to induce lymphocytosis of a plurality of cells from the malignancy. In
30  some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells comprises measuring the
    peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells. In some embodiments, the
    method further comprises administering a second cancer treatment regimen after the peripheral
    blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells increases as compared to the
                                                         56

    concentration before administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, administering
    the second cancer treatment regimen occurs after a subsequent decrease in peripheral blood
    concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells. In some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized
    plurality of cells comprises measuring the duration of an increase in the peripheral blood
  5 concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells as compared to the concentration before
    administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, the method further comprises
    administering a second cancer treatment regimen after the peripheral blood concentration of the
    mobilized plurality of cells has increased for a predetermined length of time. In some
    embodiments, analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells comprises counting the number of
 to mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood. In some embodiments, the method further
    comprises administering a second cancer treatment regimen after the number of mobilized
    plurality of cells in the peripheral blood increases as compared to the concentration before
    administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, administering the second cancer
    treatment regimen occurs after a subsequent decrease in the number of mobilized plurality of
  5 cells in the peripheral blood. In some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells
    comprises measuring the duration of an increase in the number of mobilized plurality of cells in
    the peripheral blood as compared to the number before administration of the Btk inhibitor. In
    some embodiments, the method further comprises administering a second cancer treatment
    regimen after the number of mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood has increased for
 !o a predetermined length of time.
    [00214]          Leukemia is a cancer of the blood or bone marrow characterized by an abnormal
    increase of blood cells, usually leukocytes (white blood cells). Leukemia is a broad term
    covering a spectrum of diseases. The first division is between its acute and chronic forms: (i)
    acute leukemia is characterized by the rapid increase of immature blood cells. This crowding
25  makes the bone marrow unable to produce healthy blood cells. Immediate treatment is required
    in acute leukemia due to the rapid progression and accumulation of the malignant cells, which
    then spill over into the bloodstream and spread to other organs of the body. Acute forms of
    leukemia are the most common forms of leukemia in children; (ii) chronic leukemia is
    distinguished by the excessive build up of relatively mature, but still abnormal, white blood
30  cells. Typically taking months or years to progress, the cells are produced at a much higher rate
    than normal cells, resulting in many abnormal white blood cells in the blood. Chronic leukemia
    mostly occurs in older people, but can theoretically occur in any age group. Additionally, the
    diseases are subdivided according to which kind of blood cell is affected. This split divides
                                                         57

    leukemias into lymphoblastic or lymphocytic leukemias and myeloid or myelogenous
    leukemias: (i) lymphoblastic or lymphocytic leukemias, the cancerous change takes place in a
    type of marrow cell that normally goes on to form lymphocytes, which are infection-fighting
    immune system cells; (ii) myeloid or myelogenous leukemias, the cancerous change takes place
  5 in a type of marrow cell that normally goes on to form red blood cells, some other types of white
    cells, and platelets.
    [002151          Within these main categories, there are several subcategories including, but not
    limited to, Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), Acute myelogenous leukemia (AML), Chronic
    myelogenous leukemia (CML), and Hairy cell leukemia (HCL).
 t0 Btk inhibitors
    [00216]          Also presented herein are methods for treating a cancer such as by way of
    example only, a BCLD, in a subject wherein the subject has been treated with a dosing regimen
    of a Btk inhibitor. In the following description of irreversible Btk compounds suitable for use in
    the methods described herein, definitions of referred-to standard chemistry terms may be found
 [5 in reference works (if not otherwise defined herein), including Carey and Sundberg "Advanced
    Organic Chemistry 4th Ed." Vols. A (2000) and B (2001), Plenum Press, New York. Unless
    otherwise indicated, conventional methods of mass spectroscopy, NMR, HPLC, protein
    chemistry, biochemistry, recombinant DNA techniques and pharmacology, within the ordinary
    skill of the art are employed. In addition, nucleic acid and amino acid sequences for Btk (e.g.,
 !0 human Btk) are known in the art as disclosed in, e.g., U.S. Patent No. 6,326,469. Unless specific
    definitions are provided, the nomenclature employed in connection with, and the laboratory
    procedures and techniques of, analytical chemistry, synthetic organic chemistry, and medicinal
    and pharmaceutical chemistry described herein are those known in the art. Standard techniques
    can be used for chemical syntheses, chemical analyses, pharmaceutical preparation, formulation,
25  and delivery, and treatment of patients.
    [002171          The Btk inhibitor compounds described herein are selective for Btk and kinases
    having a cysteine residue in an amino acid sequence position of the tyrosine kinase that is
    homologous to the amino acid sequence position of cysteine 481 in Btk. Generally, an
    irreversible inhibitor compound of Btk used in the methods described herein is identified or
30  characterized in an in vitro assay, e.g., an acellular biochemical assay or a cellular functional
    assay. Such assays are useful to determine an in vitro IC50 for an irreversible Btk inhibitor
    compound.
                                                         58

    [002181           For example, an acellular kinase assay can be used to determine Btk activity after
    incubation of the kinase in the absence or presence of a range of concentrations of a candidate
    irreversible Btk inhibitor compound. If the candidate compound is in fact an irreversible Btk
    inhibitor, Btk kinase activity will not be recovered by repeat washing with inhibitor-free
  5 medium. See, e.g., J. B. Smaill, et al. (1999), J. Med. Chem. 42(10):1803-1815. Further,
    covalent complex formation between Btk and a candidate irreversible Btk inhibitor is a useful
    indicator of irreversible inhibition of Btk that can be readily determined by a number of methods
    known in the art (e.g., mass spectrometry). For example, some irreversible Btk-inhibitor
    compounds can form a covalent bond with Cys 481 of Btk (e.g., via a Michael reaction).
 to [00219]           Cellular functional assays for Btk inhibition include measuring one or more
    cellular endpoints in response to stimulating a Btk-mediated pathway in a cell line (e.g., BCR
    activation in Ramos cells) in the absence or presence of a range of concentrations of a candidate
    irreversible Btk inhibitor compound. Useful endpoints for determining a response to BCR
    activation include, e.g., autophosphorylation of Btk, phosphorylation of a Btk target protein
  5 (e.g., PLC-y), and cytoplasmic calcium flux.
    [00220]           High throughput assays for many acellular biochemical assays (e.g., kinase
    assays) and cellular functional assays (e.g., calcium flux) are well known to those of ordinary
    skill in the art. In addition, high throughput screening systems are commercially available (see,
    e.g., Zymark Corp., Hopkinton, MA; Air Technical Industries, Mentor, OH; Beckman
 !o Instruments, Inc. Fullerton, CA; Precision Systems, Inc., Natick, MA, etc.). These systems
    typically automate entire procedures including all sample and reagent pipetting, liquid
    dispensing, timed incubations, and final readings of the microplate in detector(s) appropriate for
    the assay. Automated systems thereby allow the identification and characterization of a large
    number of irreversible Btk compounds without undue effort.
25  [00221]           In some embodiments, the Btk inhibitor is selected from the group consisting of a
    small organic molecule, a macromolecule, a peptide or a non-peptide.
    [00222]           In some embodiments, the Btk inhibitor provided herein is a reversible or
    irreversible inhibitor. In certain embodiments, the Btk inhibitor is an irreversible inhibitor.
    [00223]           In some embodiments, the irreversible Btk inhibitor forms a covalent bond with a
30  cysteine sidechain of a Bruton's tyrosine kinase, a Bruton's tyrosine kinase homolog, or a Btk
    tyrosine kinase cysteine homolog.
    [00224]           Irreversible Btk inhibitor compounds can use for the manufacture of a
    medicament for treating any of the foregoing conditions (e.g., autoimmune diseases,
                                                          59

   inflammatory diseases, allergy disorders, B-cell proliferative disorders, or thromboembolic
   disorders).
   [002251          In some embodiments, the irreversible Btk inhibitor compound used for the
   methods described herein inhibits Btk or a Btk homolog kinase activity with an in vitro IC 50 of
 5 less than 10 pM. (e.g., less than 1 [tM, less than 0.5 tM, less than 0.4 tM, less than 0.3 tM, less
   than 0.1, less than 0.08 tM, less than 0.06 tM, less than 0.05 tM, less than 0.04 tM, less than
   0.03 tM, less than less than 0.02 tM, less than 0.01, less than 0.008 tM, less than 0.006 tM,
   less than 0.005 tM, less than 0.004 tM, less than 0.003 tM, less than less than 0.002 tM, less
   than 0.001, less than 0.00099 tM, less than 0.00098 tM, less than 0.00097 tM, less than
t0 0.00096 tM, less than 0.00095 tM, less than 0.00094 tM, less than 0.00093 tM, less than
   0.00092, or less than 0.00090 pM).
   [002261          In one embodiment, the irreversible Btk inhibitor compound selectively and
   irreversibly inhibits an activated form of its target tyrosine kinase (e.g., a phosphorylated form
   of the tyrosine kinase). For example, activated Btk is transphosphorylated at tyrosine 551. Thus,
t5 in these embodiments the irreversible Btk inhibitor inhibits the target kinase in cells only once
   the target kinase is activated by the signaling events.
   [002271          In other embodiments, the Btk inhibitor used in the methods describe herein has
   the structure of any of Formula (A), Formula (B), Formula (C), Formula (D), Formula (E), or
   Formula (F). Also described herein are pharmaceutically acceptable salts, pharmaceutically
   acceptable solvates, pharmaceutically active metabolites, and pharmaceutically acceptable
   prodrugs of such compounds. Pharmaceutical compositions that include at least one such
   compound or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, pharmaceutically acceptable solvate,
   pharmaceutically active metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable prodrug of such compound,
   are provided. In some embodiments, when compounds disclosed herein contain an oxidizable
   nitrogen atom, the nitrogen atom can be converted to an N-oxide by methods well known in the
   art. In certain embodiments, isomers and chemically protected forms of compounds having a
   structure represented by any of Formula (A), Formula (B), Formula (C), Formula (D), Formula
   (E), or Formula (F), are also provided.
   [002281          Formula (A) is as follows:
                                               R3 ,   ,R2
                                                   N~
                                                   N         R
                                                    N       N'
                                                             64
                                                         60

                                                  Formula (A)
    wherein:
       A is independently selected from N or CR 5 ;
       R 1 is H, L2 -(substituted or unsubstituted alkyl), L2 -(substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl),
  5         L2 -(substituted or unsubstituted alkenyl), L2-(substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkenyl),
            L2 -(substituted or unsubstituted heterocycle), L2-(substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl),
            or L2 -(substituted or unsubstituted aryl), where L 2 is a bond, 0, S, -S(=0), -S(=0) 2 ,
            C(=0), -(substituted or unsubstituted CI-C 6 alkyl), or -(substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C6
            alkenyl);
 to    R 2 and R 3 are independently selected from H, lower alkyl and substituted lower alkyl;
       R 4 is L 3 -X-L4 -G, wherein,
            L3 is optional, and when present is a bond, optionally substituted or unsubstituted alkyl,
                 optionally substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl, optionally substituted or
                 unsubstituted alkenyl, optionally substituted or unsubstituted alkynyl;
 [5         X is optional, and when present is a bond, 0, -C(=0), S, -S(=0), -S(=0) 2 , -NH, -NR9 ,
                 NHC(O), -C(O)NH, -NR 9C(O), -C(O)NR 9, -S(=0) 2 NH, -NHS(=0) 2 , -S(=0) 2 NR 9 -,
                 NR9 S(=0) 2 , -OC(O)NH-, -NHC(0)0-, -OC(O)NR 9 -, -NR 9C(0)0-, -CH=NO-,
                 ON=CH-, -NRioC(O)NRio-, heteroaryl, aryl, -NRioC(=NR11 )NRio-, -NRioC(=NR11 )
                 , -C(=NR 1 1 )NRio-, -OC(=NR1 1 )-, or -C(=NR1 1)O-;
 !o         L4 is optional, and when present is a bond, substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted
                 or unsubstituted cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted alkenyl, substituted or
                 unsubstituted alkynyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, substituted or unsubstituted
                 heteroaryl, substituted or unsubstituted heterocycle;
            or L3 , X and L 4 taken together form a nitrogen containing heterocyclic ring;
                        o     RO                                    0    R6            0     R6
                                      0
                                R2                          R7              R7                  R7
25          G is           R8                R6 I     R               R        or         R8       , wherein,
                 R 6 , R 7 and Rs are independently selected from among H, lower alkyl or substituted
                       lower alkyl, lower heteroalkyl or substituted lower heteroalkyl, substituted or
                       unsubstituted lower cycloalkyl, and substituted or unsubstituted lower
                       heterocycloalkyl;
30     R 5 is H, halogen, -L 6 -(substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C3 alkyl), -L 6 -(substituted or
            unsubstituted C 2 -C4 alkenyl), -L 6-(substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl), or -L 6
            (substituted or unsubstituted aryl), wherein L6 is a bond, 0, S, -S(=0), S(=0) 2 , NH,
                                                           61

            C(O), -NHC(O)O, -OC(O)NH, -NHC(O), or -C(O)NH;
       each R 9 is independently selected from among H, substituted or unsubstituted lower alkyl,
            and substituted or unsubstituted lower cycloalkyl;
       each RIO is independently H, substituted or unsubstituted lower alkyl, or substituted or
  5         unsubstituted lower cycloalkyl; or
       two Rio groups can together form a 5-, 6-, 7-, or 8-membered heterocyclic ring; or
       R 9 and Rio can together form a 5-, 6-, 7-, or 8-membered heterocyclic ring; or
       each R1 1 is independently selected from H, -S(=0) 2Rs, -S(=0) 2NH 2 , -C(O)Rs, -CN, -NO 2,
            heteroaryl, or heteroalkyl; and
 t0    pharmaceutically active metabolites, pharmaceutically acceptable solvates, pharmaceutically
            acceptable salts, or pharmaceutically acceptable prodrugs thereof.
    [00229]          In one aspect are compounds having the structure of Formula (Al):
                                                 R3 ,  ,R2
                                                    N~
                                                    N        R
                                                      N     N'
                                                             R4
                                                 Formula (Al),
    wherein
 [5    A is independently selected from N or CR 5 ;
       R 1 is H, L2 -(substituted or unsubstituted alkyl), L2 -(substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl),
            L2 -(substituted or unsubstituted alkenyl), L2-(substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkenyl),
            L2 -(substituted or unsubstituted heterocycle), L2-(substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl),
            or L2 -(substituted or unsubstituted aryl), where L 2 is a bond, 0, S, -S(=O), -S(=0) 2 ,
20          C(=0), -(substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C6 alkyl), or -(substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C6
            alkenyl);
       R 2 and R 3 are independently selected from H, lower alkyl and substituted lower alkyl;
       R 4 is L 3-X-L4 -G, wherein,
            L3 is optional, and when present is a bond, or an optionally substituted group selected
25               from alkyl, heteroalkyl, aryl, heteroaryl, alkylaryl, alkylheteroaryl, or
                 alkylheterocycloalkyl;
            X is optional, and when present is a bond, 0, -C(=0), S, -S(=O), -S(=0) 2 , -NH, -NR9 ,
                 NHC(O), -C(O)NH, -NR9 C(O), -C(O)NR 9, -S(=0) 2NH, -NHS(=0) 2, -S(=0) 2NR 9-,
                 NR 9 S(=0) 2 , -OC(O)NH-, -NHC(O)O-, -OC(O)NR 9 -, -NR9C(O)O-, -CH=NO-,
                                                         62

        ON=CH-, -NRioC(O)NRio-, heteroaryl, aryl, -NRioC(=NR11 )NRio-, -NRioC(=NR11 )
        ,-C(=NR 1 1 )NRio-, -OC(=NR1 1 )-, or -C(=NRII)O-;
    L4 is optional, and when present is a bond, substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted
        or unsubstituted cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted alkenyl, substituted or
  5     unsubstituted alkynyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, substituted or unsubstituted
        heteroaryl, substituted or unsubstituted heterocycle;
    or L3 , X and L 4 taken together form a nitrogen containing heterocyclic ring, or an
        optionally substituted group selected from alkyl, heteroalkyl, aryl, heteroaryl,
        alkylaryl, alkylheteroaryl, or alkylheterocycloalkyl;
                   o      R   ,                            0      R6              0     R
                                      R7N-                           R,--NRa        -r     R
                                                   R6   H
 [0     G is                    y              R              R      RR                    R
                   o       R6                      R6
                NRR                        NRR
                       R8         or,           R8        where Ra is H, substituted or
        unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl; and either
        R 7 and Rs are H;
             R6 is H, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C 4alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1
 [5          C 4heteroalkyl, C1 -Csalkylaminoalkyl, C1 -Cshydroxyalkylaminoalkyl, C1
             Csalkoxyalkylaminoalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C 3-C 6cycloalkyl,
             substituted or unsubstituted C1-CsalkylC 3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or
             unsubstituted aryl, substituted or unsubstituted C 2-Csheterocycloalkyl, substituted
             or unsubstituted heteroaryl, C 1-C 4alkyl(aryl), C 1-C 4alkyl(heteroaryl), C1
20           Csalkylethers, C1 -Csalkylamides, or C1-C 4alkyl(C 2-Csheterocycloalkyl);
        R 6 and Rs are H;
             R 7 is H, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C 4alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted CI
             C 4heteroalkyl, C1 -Csalkylaminoalkyl, C1 -Cshydroxyalkylaminoalkyl, C1
             Csalkoxyalkylaminoalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C 3-C 6cycloalkyl,
25           substituted or unsubstituted Ci-CsalkylC 3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or
             unsubstituted aryl, substituted or unsubstituted C 2-Csheterocycloalkyl, substituted
             or unsubstituted heteroaryl, CI-C 4alkyl(aryl), C1-C 4alkyl(heteroaryl), C1
             Csalkylethers, C1-Csalkylamides, or C1-C 4alkyl(C 2-Csheterocycloalkyl); or
        R6 and Rs taken together form a bond;
                                                   63

                    R7  is H, substituted or unsubstituted CI-C 4alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1
                    C 4heteroalkyl, C1-Csalkylaminoalkyl, C1 -Cshydroxyalkylaminoalkyl, C1
                    Csalkoxyalkylaminoalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C 3-C 6cycloalkyl,
                    substituted or unsubstituted CI-CsalkylC 3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or
5                   unsubstituted aryl, substituted or unsubstituted C 2-Csheterocycloalkyl, substituted
                    or unsubstituted heteroaryl, CI-C 4alkyl(aryl), C1-C 4alkyl(heteroaryl), C1
                    Csalkylethers, C1-Csalkylamides, or C1-C 4alkyl(C 2-Csheterocycloalkyl); or
       R5  is H, halogen, -L 6 -(substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C3 alkyl), -L 6 -(substituted or
            unsubstituted C 2 -C4 alkenyl), -L 6-(substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl), or -L 6
0           (substituted or unsubstituted aryl), wherein L6 is a bond, 0, S, -S(=0), S(=0) 2 , NH,
            C(O), -NHC(O)O, -OC(O)NH, -NHC(O), or -C(O)NH;
       each R 9 is independently selected from among H, substituted or unsubstituted lower alkyl,
            and substituted or unsubstituted lower cycloalkyl;
       each RIO is independently H, substituted or unsubstituted lower alkyl, or substituted or
5           unsubstituted lower cycloalkyl; or
       two Rio groups can together form a 5-, 6-, 7-, or 8-membered heterocyclic ring; or
       R 9 and Rio can together form a 5-, 6-, 7-, or 8-membered heterocyclic ring; or
       each R1 1 is independently selected from H, -S(=0) 2 Rs, -S(=0) 2 NH 2 , -C(O)Rs, -CN, -NO 2,
            heteroaryl, or heteroalkyl; and pharmaceutically active metabolites, pharmaceutically
0           acceptable solvates, pharmaceutically acceptable salts, or pharmaceutically acceptable
            prodrugs thereof.
  [002301           In another embodiment are provided pharmaceutically acceptable salts of
  compounds of Formula (Al). By way of example only, are salts of an amino group formed with
  inorganic acids such as hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, phosphoric acid, sulfuric acid and
  perchloric acid or with organic acids such as acetic acid, oxalic acid, maleic acid, tartaric acid,
  citric acid, succinic acid or malonic acid. Further salts include those in which the counterion is
  an anion, such as adipate, alginate, ascorbate, aspartate, benzenesulfonate, benzoate, bisulfate,
  borate, butyrate, camphorate, camphorsulfonate, citrate, cyclopentanepropionate, digluconate,
  dodecylsulfate, ethanesulfonate, formate, fumarate, glucoheptonate, glycerophosphate,
  gluconate, hemisulfate, heptanoate, hexanoate, hydroiodide, 2-hydroxy-ethanesulfonate,
  lactobionate, lactate, laurate, lauryl sulfate, malate, maleate, malonate, methanesulfonate, 2
  naphthalenesulfonate, nicotinate, nitrate, oleate, oxalate, palmitate, pamoate, pectinate,
  persulfate, 3-phenylpropionate, phosphate, picrate, pivalate, propionate, stearate, succinate,
                                                          64

   sulfate, tartrate, thiocyanate, p-toluenesulfonate, undecanoate, and valerate. Further salts include
   those in which the counterion is an cation, such as sodium, lithium, potassium, calcium,
   magnesium, ammonium, and quaternary ammonium (substituted with at least one organic
   moiety) cations.
   [002311           In another embodiment are pharmaceutically acceptable esters of compounds of
   Formula (Al), including those in which the ester group is selected from a formate, acetate,
   propionate, butyrate, acrylate and ethylsuccinate.
   [00232]           In another embodiment are pharmaceutically acceptable carbamates of
   compounds of Formula (Al). In another embodiment are pharmaceutically acceptable N-acyl
   derivatives of compounds of Formula (Al). Examples of N-acyl groups include N-acetyl and N
   ethoxycarbonyl groups.
   [00233]           In a further embodiment, the compound of Formula (A) has the following
   structure of Formula (B):
                                                   Ra       Ra
                                                 Ra    /   \    Ra
                                                 NH2
                                                              Ra
                                              N   N    \
                                                         N
                                                 N     N
                                                R12-N
                                                 Formula (B)
   wherein:
       Y is alkyl or substituted alkyl, or a 4-, 5-, or 6-membered cycloalkyl ring;
 5     each Ra is independently H, halogen, -CF 3 , -CN, -NO 2 , OH, NH 2, -La-(substituted or
            unsubstituted alkyl), -La-(substituted or unsubstituted alkenyl), -La-(substituted or
            unsubstituted heteroaryl), or -La-(substituted or unsubstituted aryl), wherein La is a bond,
            0, S, -S(=O), -S(=0) 2, NH, C(O), CH 2 , -NHC(O)O, -NHC(O), or -C(O)NH;
                 O     R6                   O       R6         0    R6         0     R6
                                                       Ry              R7               Ry
                                       R
       G is         R8                  6        R8               R      ,or      R8       , wherein,
10     R6 , R 7 and Rs are independently selected from among H, lower alkyl or substituted lower
            alkyl, lower heteroalkyl or substituted lower heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
            lower cycloalkyl, and substituted or unsubstituted lower heterocycloalkyl;
       R 12 is H or lower alkyl; or
                                                          65

       Y and R 12 taken together form a 4-, 5-, or 6-membered heterocyclic ring; and
       pharmaceutically acceptable active metabolites, pharmaceutically acceptable solvates,
           pharmaceutically acceptable salts, or pharmaceutically acceptable prodrugs thereof.
   [00234]         In further embodiments, G is selected from among           0      ,   0
       )N                                           O             ))
       0              ,0            ,0                   ,andO        O
                                               Y N' R12
   [002351         In further embodiments,                 is selected from among
        N         N         N./   VNH       N        N          Na         HN
   [00236]         In a further embodiment, the compound of Formula (Al) has the following
   structure of Formula (B1):
                                                   Ra        Ra
                                                 Ra    /    \    Ra
                                                 NH2
                                                               Ra
                                             N         \
                                                         N
                                                 N     N
                                                R12-N
 5
                                               Formula (BI),
   wherein:
       Y is an optionally substituted group selected from among alkylene, heteroalkylene, arylene,
           heteroarylene, alkylenearylene, alkyleneheteroarylene, and alkyleneheterocycloalkylene;
10     each Ra is independently H, halogen, -CF 3 , -CN, -NO 2 , OH, NH 2, -La-(substituted or
           unsubstituted alkyl), -La-(substituted or unsubstituted alkenyl), -La-(substituted or
           unsubstituted heteroaryl), or -La-(substituted or unsubstituted aryl), wherein La is a bond,
           0, S, -S(=0), -S(=0) 2 , NH, C(O), CH 2 , -NHC(O)O, -NHC(O), or -C(O)NH;
                0       R6                                  0       R             0    R
                                                       Nj-;           R       N RajR
                G isR R                       6        H          8 R
       G is                 y                R5        N                y     NR       R
                                                          66

                0       R6                      R6
            NR             Ry          NR           Ry
                   R8         or,            R8        where Ra is H, substituted or unsubstituted
    alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl; and either
    R7 and Rs are H;
         R 6 is H, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C 4alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted CI
  5      C 4heteroalkyl, C1 -Csalkylaminoalkyl, C1 -Cshydroxyalkylaminoalkyl, C1
         Csalkoxyalkylaminoalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C 3-C 6cycloalkyl, substituted or
         unsubstituted C 1 -CsalkylC 3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, substituted or
         unsubstituted C 2 -Csheterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl, C1
         C 4 alkyl(aryl), C1 -C 4alkyl(heteroaryl), C1 -Csalkylethers, C1 -Csalkylamides, or C1
 t0      C 4 alkyl(C 2 -Csheterocycloalkyl);
    R 6 and Rs are H;
         R7 is H, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C 4alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted CI
         C 4heteroalkyl, C1 -Csalkylaminoalkyl, C1 -Cshydroxyalkylaminoalkyl, C1
         Csalkoxyalkylaminoalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C 3-C 6cycloalkyl, substituted or
 [5      unsubstituted C1-CsalkylC 3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, substituted or
         unsubstituted C 2 -Csheterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl, C1
         C 4 alkyl(aryl), C1 -C 4alkyl(heteroaryl), C1 -Csalkylethers, C1 -Csalkylamides, or C1
         C 4 alkyl(C 2 -Csheterocycloalkyl); or
    R 6 and Rs taken together form a bond;
20       R 7 is H, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C 4alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted CI
         C 4heteroalkyl, C1 -Csalkylaminoalkyl, C1 -Cshydroxyalkylaminoalkyl, C1
         Csalkoxyalkylaminoalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C 3-C 6cycloalkyl, substituted or
         unsubstituted C 1 -CsalkylC 3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, substituted or
         unsubstituted C 2 -Csheterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl, C1
25       C 4 alkyl(aryl), C1 -C 4alkyl(heteroaryl), C1 -Csalkylethers, C1 -Csalkylamides, or C1
         C 4 alkyl(C 2 -Csheterocycloalkyl);
    R 12 is H or lower alkyl; or
    Y and R 12 taken together form a 4-, 5-, or 6-membered heterocyclic ring; and
    pharmaceutically acceptable active metabolites, pharmaceutically acceptable solvates,
30       pharmaceutically acceptable salts, or pharmaceutically acceptable prodrugs thereof.
                                                         67

                                                                                             ,AJ.        R
   [002371           In further embodiments, G is selected from among               0            0
        0           R     ,    0       ,,and       0                   ., where R is H, alkyl, alkylhydroxy,
   heterocycloalkyl, heteroaryl, alkylalkoxy, alkylalkoxyalkyl.
                                                Y N' R12
   [002381           In further embodiments,                 is selected from among
        N     N                  1          NH                         NN,                    and          .
   [002391           In a further embodiment, the compound of Formula (B) has the following
   structure of Formula (C):
                                                   NH2
                                                N   '
                                                   N        N
                                                          Y
                                                   R12-N'
                                                         G
                                                    Formula (C)
       Y is alkyl or substituted alkyl, or a 4-, 5-, or 6-membered cycloalkyl ring;
 5     R 12 is H or lower alkyl; or
       Y and R 12 taken together form a 4-, 5-, or 6-membered heterocyclic ring;
                 O     R6                   O         R6          0       R6          0     R6
                          R7                             R7         'f       R7                R7
                                           R6     R8                  R8        or    R
       G is         RRR                                                                   8       , wherein,
       R6 , R 7 and Rs are independently selected from among H, lower alkyl or substituted lower
            alkyl, lower heteroalkyl or substituted lower heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
10          lower cycloalkyl, and substituted or unsubstituted lower heterocycloalkyl; and
       pharmaceutically acceptable active metabolites, pharmaceutically acceptable solvates,
            pharmaceutically acceptable salts, or pharmaceutically acceptable prodrugs thereof.
   [00240]           In further embodiment, the compound of Formula (B 1) has the following
   structure of Formula (C1):
                                                            68

                                                          0
                                                 NH 2
                                              N   N'   \
                                                 N     NN
                                                R12-N l
                                                      G
                                                 Formula (C1),
    Y is an optionally substituted group selected from among alkyl, heteroalkyl, aryl, heteroaryl,
         alkylaryl, alkylheteroaryl, and alkylheterocycloalkyl;
  5 R 12 is H or lower alkyl; or
    Y and R 12 taken together form a 4-, 5-, or 6-membered heterocyclic ring;
                0        R6                                 0     R               0     R
                Ois    R                                       R8
                o        R6            0    0     R
                 1NRa       Ry,        NR             Ry
                    R8          or,           R8          where Ra is H, substituted or unsubstituted
    alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl; and either
 t0 R7 and Rs are H;
         R 6 is H, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C 4alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted CI
         C 4heteroalkyl, C1 -Csalkylaminoalkyl, C1 -Cshydroxyalkylaminoalkyl, C1
         Csalkoxyalkylaminoalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C 3-C 6cycloalkyl, substituted or
         unsubstituted C 1 -CsalkylC 3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, substituted or
15       unsubstituted C 2 -Csheterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl, C1
         C 4 alkyl(aryl), C1 -C 4alkyl(heteroaryl), C1 -Csalkylethers, C1 -Csalkylamides, or C1
         C 4 alkyl(C 2 -Csheterocycloalkyl);
    R 6 and Rs are H;
         R7 is H, substituted or unsubstituted CI-C 4alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1
20       C 4heteroalkyl, C1 -Csalkylaminoalkyl, C1 -Cshydroxyalkylaminoalkyl, C1
         Csalkoxyalkylaminoalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C 3-C 6cycloalkyl, substituted or
         unsubstituted C 1 -CsalkylC 3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, substituted or
         unsubstituted C 2 -Csheterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl, C1
                                                           69

            C 4 alkyl(aryl), C1-C 4alkyl(heteroaryl), C1-Csalkylethers, C1-Csalkylamides, or C1
            C 4 alkyl(C 2 -Cgheterocycloalkyl); or
       R 6 and Rs taken together form a bond;
            R 7 is H, substituted or unsubstituted CI-C 4alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1
 5          C 4heteroalkyl, C1-Csalkylaminoalkyl, C1-Cshydroxyalkylaminoalkyl, C1
            Csalkoxyalkylaminoalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C 3-C 6cycloalkyl, substituted or
            unsubstituted C1-CsalkylC 3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, substituted or
            unsubstituted C 2 -Csheterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl, C1
            C 4 alkyl(aryl), C1-C 4alkyl(heteroaryl), C1-Csalkylethers, C1-Csalkylamides, or C1
t0          C 4 alkyl(C 2 -Csheterocycloalkyl); and
       pharmaceutically acceptable active metabolites, pharmaceutically acceptable solvates,
            pharmaceutically acceptable salts, or pharmaceutically acceptable prodrugs thereof.
   [00241]           In a further or alternative embodiment, the "G" group of any of Formula (Al),
   Formula (B 1), or Formula (C1) is any group that is used to tailor the physical and biological
   properties of the molecule. Such tailoring/modifications are achieved using groups which
   modulate Michael acceptor chemical reactivity, acidity, basicity, lipophilicity, solubility and
   other physical properties of the molecule. The physical and biological properties modulated by
   such modifications to G include, by way of example only, enhancing chemical reactivity of
   Michael acceptor group, solubility, in vivo absorption, and in vivo metabolism. In addition, in
   vivo metabolism includes, by way of example only, controlling in vivo PK properties, off-target
   activities, potential toxicities associated with cypP450 interactions, drug-drug interactions, and
   the like. Further, modifications to G allow for the tailoring of the in vivo efficacy of the
   compound through the modulation of, by way of example, specific and non-specific protein
   binding to plasma proteins and lipids and tissue distribution in vivo.
   [00242]           In another embodiment, provided herein is a compound of Formula (D). Formula
   (D) is as follows:
                                                              L: Ar
                                                NH2     -
                                              N       \
                                                N     N
                                                          zHR
                                                          Y-1        6
                                                          R8        R
                                                           70

                                                     Formula (D)
    wherein:
            La is CH 2 , 0, NH or S;
            Ar is a substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or a substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl;
  5         Y is an optionally substituted group selected from among alkyl, heteroalkyl, cycloalkyl,
                  heterocycloalkyl, aryl, and heteroaryl;
            Z is C(=0), OC(=0), NHC(=0), C(=S), S(=0)x, OS(=0)x, NHS(=0)x, where x is 1 or 2;
            R 6 , R 7 , and Rs are each independently selected from among H, substituted or
                  unsubstituted C1 -C4 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C4heteroalkyl, substituted
 to               or unsubstituted C 3 -C 6cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C 6heterocycloalkyl,
                  C 1 -C6 alkoxyalkyl, C1 -Csalkylaminoalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3
                  C 6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, substituted or unsubstituted
                  heteroaryl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C 4 alkyl(aryl), substituted or unsubstituted
                  C 1 -C4 alkyl(heteroaryl), substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C 4alkyl(C 3-Cscycloalkyl), or
 [5               substituted or unsubstituted C 1 -C4 alkyl(C 2 -Csheterocycloalkyl); or
            R 7 and Rs taken together form a bond; and pharmaceutically active metabolites, or
                  pharmaceutically acceptable solvates, pharmaceutically acceptable salts, or
                  pharmaceutically acceptable prodrugs thereof.
    [002431             In one embodiment are compounds having the structure of Formula (D1):
                                                                 L:-Ar
                                                  NH2      -
                                               N         \
                                                  N      N
                                                             R8        R
20                                                  Formula (D1)
    wherein
        La is CH 2 , 0, NH or S;
        Ar is an optionally substituted aromatic carbocycle or an aromatic heterocycle;
        Y is an optionally substituted group selected from among alkylene, heteroalkylene, arylene,
25      heteroarylene, alkylenearylene, alkyleneheteroarylene, and alkyleneheterocycloalkylene, or
        combination thereof;
                                                              71

        Z is C(=O), NHC(=O), NRaC(=O), NRaS(=O)x, where x is 1 or 2, and Ra is H, substituted or
        unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl; and either
        R 7 and Rs are H;
            R6  is H, substituted or unsubstituted CI-C 4alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1
  5         C 4heteroalkyl, C1-Csalkylaminoalkyl, C1 -Cshydroxyalkylaminoalkyl, C1
            Csalkoxyalkylaminoalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C 3-C 6cycloalkyl, substituted or
            unsubstituted C1-CsalkylC 3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, substituted or
            unsubstituted C 2 -Csheterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl, C1
            C 4 alkyl(aryl), C1-C 4alkyl(heteroaryl), C1-Csalkylethers, C1 -Csalkylamides, or C1
 t0         C 4 alkyl(C 2 -Csheterocycloalkyl);
        R 6 and Rs are H;
            R7  is H, substituted or unsubstituted CI-C 4alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1
            C 4heteroalkyl, C1-Csalkylaminoalkyl, C1 -Cshydroxyalkylaminoalkyl, C1
            Csalkoxyalkylaminoalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C 3-C 6cycloalkyl, substituted or
 [5         unsubstituted C1-CsalkylC 3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, substituted or
            unsubstituted C 2 -Csheterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl, C1
            C 4 alkyl(aryl), C1-C 4alkyl(heteroaryl), C1-Csalkylethers, C1 -Csalkylamides, or C1
            C 4 alkyl(C 2 -Csheterocycloalkyl); or
        R6  and Rs taken together form a bond;
 !o         R7  is H, substituted or unsubstituted CI-C 4alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1
            C 4heteroalkyl, C1-Csalkylaminoalkyl, C1 -Cshydroxyalkylaminoalkyl, C1
            Csalkoxyalkylaminoalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C 3-C 6cycloalkyl, substituted or
            unsubstituted C1-CsalkylC 3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, substituted or
            unsubstituted C 2 -Csheterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl, C1
25          C 4 alkyl(aryl), Ci-C 4alkyl(heteroaryl), C1-Csalkylethers, C1-Csalkylamides, or C1
            C 4 alkyl(C 2 -Csheterocycloalkyl);
        or combinations thereof; and
    pharmaceutically active metabolites, or pharmaceutically acceptable solvates, pharmaceutically
    acceptable salts, or pharmaceutically acceptable prodrugs thereof.
    [00244]          In another embodiment are provided pharmaceutically acceptable salts of
    compounds of Formula (D1). By way of example only, are salts of an amino group formed with
    inorganic acids such as hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, phosphoric acid, sulfuric acid and
    perchloric acid or with organic acids such as acetic acid, oxalic acid, maleic acid, tartaric acid,
                                                         72

citric acid, succinic acid or malonic acid. Further salts include those in which the counterion is
an anion, such as adipate, alginate, ascorbate, aspartate, benzenesulfonate, benzoate, bisulfate,
borate, butyrate, camphorate, camphorsulfonate, citrate, cyclopentanepropionate, digluconate,
dodecylsulfate, ethanesulfonate, formate, fumarate, glucoheptonate, glycerophosphate,
gluconate, hemisulfate, heptanoate, hexanoate, hydroiodide, 2-hydroxy-ethanesulfonate,
lactobionate, lactate, laurate, lauryl sulfate, malate, maleate, malonate, methanesulfonate, 2
naphthalenesulfonate, nicotinate, nitrate, oleate, oxalate, palmitate, pamoate, pectinate,
persulfate, 3-phenylpropionate, phosphate, picrate, pivalate, propionate, stearate, succinate,
sulfate, tartrate, thiocyanate, p-toluenesulfonate, undecanoate, and valerate. Further salts include
those in which the counterion is an cation, such as sodium, lithium, potassium, calcium,
magnesium, ammonium, and quaternary ammonium (substituted with at least one organic
moiety) cations.
[002451          In another embodiment are pharmaceutically acceptable esters of compounds of
Formula (D1), including those in which the ester group is selected from a formate, acetate,
propionate, butyrate, acrylate and ethylsuccinate.
[00246]          In another embodiment are pharmaceutically acceptable carbamates of
compounds of Formula (D1). In another embodiment are pharmaceutically acceptable N-acyl
derivatives of compounds of Formula (D1). Examples of N-acyl groups include N-acetyl and N
ethoxycarbonyl groups.
[002471          In a further embodiment, La is 0.
[00248]          In a further embodiment, Ar is phenyl.
[00249]          In a further embodiment, Z is C(=0), NHC(=0), or NCH 3 C(=0).
[002501          In a further embodiment, each of R 1, R2 , and R3 is H.
[002511          In one embodiment is a compound of Formula (D1) wherein R6 , R7 , and Rs are
all H. In another embodiment, R6 , R7 , and Rs are not all H.
[00252]          For any and all of the embodiments, substituents can be selected from among
from a subset of the listed alternatives. For example, in some embodiments, La is CH 2 , 0, or NH.
In other embodiments, La is 0 or NH. In yet other embodiments, La is 0.
[00253]          In some embodiments, Ar is a substituted or unsubstituted aryl. In yet other
embodiments, Ar is a 6-membered aryl. In some other embodiments, Ar is phenyl.
[00254]          In some embodiments, x is 2. In yet other embodiments, Z is C(=0), OC(=0),
NHC(=0), S(=0)x, OS(=0)x, or NHS(=0)x. In some other embodiments, Z is C(=0), NHC(=0),
or S(=0) 2 .
                                                      73

[002551          In some embodiments, R7 and Rs are independently selected from among H,
unsubstituted C 1-C4 alkyl, substituted C1-C 4 alkyl, unsubstituted C1 -C4heteroalkyl, and
substituted C 1-C4 heteroalkyl; or R 7 and Rs taken together form a bond. In yet other
embodiments, each of R7 and Rs is H; or R7 and Rs taken together form a bond.
[002561          In some embodiments, R6 is H, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 4 alkyl,
substituted or unsubstituted C 1 -C4heteroalkyl, C 1 -C6 alkoxyalkyl, C 1-C 2 alkyl-N(C1-C 3 alkyl) 2 ,
substituted or unsubstituted aryl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl, C1 -C 4alkyl(aryl), C 1
C 4 alkyl(heteroaryl), C 1-C 4alkyl(C 3-Cscycloalkyl), or C1 -C 4alkyl(C 2-Csheterocycloalkyl). In
some other embodiments, R6 is H, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 4 alkyl, substituted or
unsubstituted C1-C 4 heteroalkyl, C1-C 6 alkoxyalkyl, C 1-C 2 alkyl-N(C1-C 3 alkyl) 2 , C1 -C 4alkyl(aryl),
C 1 -C4 alkyl(heteroaryl), C 1-C 4alkyl(C 3-Cscycloalkyl), or C1 -C 4alkyl(C 2-Csheterocycloalkyl). In
yet other embodiments, R6 is H, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 4 alkyl, -CH 2 -0-(C1-C 3 alkyl),
CH 2-N(C1-C 3alkyl) 2, C1-C 4 alkyl(phenyl), or C1-C 4 alkyl(5- or 6-membered heteroaryl). In some
embodiments, R6 is H, substituted or unsubstituted C 1-C 4 alkyl, -CH 2 -0-(C1-C 3 alkyl), -CH 2
N(C1-C 3 alkyl) 2 , C 1-C 4alkyl(phenyl), or C 1-C 4alkyl(5- or 6-membered heteroaryl containing 1 or
2 N atoms), or C 1-C 4alkyl(5- or 6-membered heterocycloalkyl containing 1 or 2 N atoms).
[002571          In some embodiments, Y is an optionally substituted group selected from among
alkyl, heteroalkyl, cycloalkyl, and heterocycloalkyl. In other embodiments, Y is an optionally
substituted group selected from among C 1-C 6 alkyl, C 1-C 6heteroalkyl, 4-, 5-, 6- or 7-membered
cycloalkyl, and 4-, 5-, 6- or 7-membered heterocycloalkyl. In yet other embodiments, Y is an
optionally substituted group selected from among C1-C 6 alkyl, C1-C 6 heteroalkyl, 5-, or 6
membered cycloalkyl, and 5-, or 6-membered heterocycloalkyl containing 1 or 2 N atoms. In
some other embodiments, Y is a 5-, or 6-membered cycloalkyl, or a 5-, or 6-membered
heterocycloalkyl containing 1 or 2 N atoms.
[002581          Any combination of the groups described above for the various variables is
contemplated herein. It is understood that substituents and substitution patterns on the
compounds provided herein can be selected by one of ordinary skill in the art to provide
compounds that are chemically stable and that can be synthesized by techniques known in the
art, as well as those set forth herein.
[002591          In one embodiment the irreversible inhibitor of a kinase has the structure of
Formula (E):
                                                         74

                                                       Rs          R
                                                   Formula (E)
    wherein:
            wherein                is a moiety that binds to the active site of a kinase, including a
 5               tyrosine kinase, further including a Btk kinase cysteine homolog;
            Y is an optionally substituted group selected from among alkylene, heteroalkylene,
                 arylene, heteroarylene, heterocycloalkylene, cycloalkylene, alkylenearylene,
                 alkyleneheteroarylene, alkylenecycloalkylene, and alkyleneheterocycloalkylene;
            Z is C(=0), OC(=0), NHC(=0), NCH 3 C(=0), C(=S), S(=0)x, OS(=0)x, NHS(=0)x,
 to              where xisl1or 2;
            R6 , R7 , and Rs are each independently selected from among H, substituted or
                 unsubstituted C1 -C4 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C4 heteroalkyl, substituted
                 or unsubstituted C3 -Cecycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -Coheterocycloalkyl,
                 C1 -Coalkoxyalkyl, C1 -Csalkylaminoalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3
15               Cocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, substituted or unsubstituted
                 heteroaryl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C4 alkyl(aryl), substituted or unsubstituted
                 C1 -C4 alkyl(heteroaryl), substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C4 alkyl(C 3 -Cscycloalkyl), or
                 substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C4 alkyl(C 2 -Csheterocycloalkyl); or
            R7 and Rs taken together form a bond; and pharmaceutically active metabolites, or
20               pharmaceutically acceptable solvates, pharmaceutically acceptable salts, or
                 pharmaceutically acceptable prodrugs thereof.
    [002601           In some embodiments,                 is a substituted fused biaryl moiety selected
    from
                                                           75

                                     II                                  I
                            NN
                                        NN                                 N
                                                    N                  N
                                    N N                   NNN          N
                                           NN
                                   N        N     N               N
                                        NNN                N
   [002611          In one aspect, provided herein are compounds of Formula (F). Formula (F) is as
   follows:
                                                              L- Ar
                                                NH2
                                              N       \
                                                N       N
                                                           Z8       R,
                                                  Formula (F)
   wherein
 5      La is CH 2, O, NH or S;
        Ar is a substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or a substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl; and
        either
        (a) Y is an optionally substituted group selected from among alkylene, heteroalkylene,
            arylene, heteroarylene, alkylenearylene, alkyleneheteroarylene, alkylenecycloalkylene
10          and alkyleneheterocycloalkylene;
        Z is C(=O), NHC(=O), NRaC(=O), NRaS(=O)x, where x is 1 or 2, and Ra is H, substituted or
            unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl; and either
                                                            76

          (i) R 6 , R7 , and Rs are each independently selected from among H, substituted or
     unsubstituted C1 -C4 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C4heteroalkyl, substituted or
     unsubstituted C 3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C 6heterocycloalkyl, C1
     C 6 alkoxyalkyl, C1 -Csalkylaminoalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C 3-C 6cycloalkyl, substituted
  5  or unsubstituted aryl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl, substituted or unsubstituted C1
     C 4 alkyl(aryl), substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C 4alkyl(heteroaryl), substituted or unsubstituted
     C 1 -C4 alkyl(C 3 -Cscycloalkyl), or substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C4 alkyl(C 2 -Csheterocycloalkyl);
          (ii) R6 and Rs are H;
          R 7 is H, substituted or unsubstituted CI-C 4alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1
 t0            C 4heteroalkyl, C1 -Csalkylaminoalkyl, C 1 -Cs hydroxyalkylaminoalkyl, C1-Cs
               alkoxyalkylaminoalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C 3-C 6cycloalkyl, substituted or
               unsubstituted C 1 -CsalkylC 3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, substituted or
               unsubstituted C 2 -Csheterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl, C1
               C 4 alkyl(aryl), C1 -C 4alkyl(heteroaryl), C1 -Csalkylethers, C1 -Csalkylamides, or C1
 [5            C 4 alkyl(C 2 -Csheterocycloalkyl); or
          (iii) R7 and Rs taken together form a bond;
          R 6 is selected from among H, substituted or unsubstituted CI-C 4 alkyl, substituted or
               unsubstituted C 1 -C4 heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C 3-C6 cycloalkyl, substituted
               or unsubstituted C 2 -C 6heterocycloalkyl, C1 -C 6alkoxyalkyl, C1 -Csalkylaminoalkyl,
  !o           substituted or unsubstituted C 3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl,
               substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C 4alkyl(aryl),
               substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C4 alkyl(heteroaryl), substituted or unsubstituted C1
               C 4 alkyl(C 3 -Cscycloalkyl), or substituted or unsubstituted C 1 -C4 alkyl(C 2
               Csheterocycloalkyl) or
25        (b) Y is an optionally substituted group selected from cycloalkylene or heterocycloalkylene;
          Z is C(=O), NHC(=O), NRaC(=O), NRaS(=O)x, where x is 1 or 2, and Ra is H, substituted or
               unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted cycloalkyl; and either
          (i) R 7 and Rs are H;
          R 6 is substituted or unsubstituted CI-C 4 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted CI-C 4heteroalkyl,
30             Ci-Csalkylaminoalkyl, Ci-Cs hydroxyalkylaminoalkyl, C1 -Cs alkoxyalkylaminoalkyl,
               substituted or unsubstituted C 3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1-CsalkylC   3
               C 6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, substituted or unsubstituted C2
               Csheterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl, CI-C 4alkyl(aryl), C1
                                                               77

             C 4 alkyl(heteroaryl), C1-Csalkylethers, C1-Csalkylamides, or C1-C 4 alkyl(C 2
             Cgheterocycloalkyl);
        (ii) R6 and Rs are H;
        R 7 is substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 4 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 4heteroalkyl,
5            C1-Csalkylaminoalkyl, C 1-Cs hydroxyalkylaminoalkyl, C1-Cs alkoxyalkylaminoalkyl,
             substituted or unsubstituted C 3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C 1 -CsalkylC 3
             C 6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, substituted or unsubstituted C2
             Csheterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl, C1-C 4alkyl(aryl), C1
             C 4 alkyl(heteroaryl), C1-Csalkylethers, C1-Csalkylamides, or C1-C 4 alkyl(C 2
0            Csheterocycloalkyl); or
        (iii) R7 and Rs taken together form a bond;
        R 6 is substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 4 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1-C 4heteroalkyl,
             C1-Csalkylaminoalkyl, C1-Cshydroxyalkylaminoalkyl, C1-Csalkoxyalkylaminoalkyl,
             substituted or unsubstituted C 3 -C 6cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1-CsalkylC   3
5            C 6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, substituted or unsubstituted C2
             Csheterocycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl, C1 -C 4alkyl(aryl), C1
             C 4 alkyl(heteroaryl), C1-Csalkylethers, C1-Csalkylamides, or C1-C 4 alkyl(C 2
             Csheterocycloalkyl); and pharmaceutically active metabolites, or pharmaceutically
             acceptable solvates, pharmaceutically acceptable salts, or pharmaceutically acceptable
!o           prodrugs thereof
   [00262]              Further embodiments of compounds of Formula (A), Formula (B), Formula (C),
   Formula (D), include, but are not limited to, compounds selected from the group consisting of:
                                            000-00
      NH2                    NH2                NH2                      NH2                  NH2
            N                      N                   N             N        N
      N                      N           \NN        N                    N"'N            ~      ~  N
                                          0-0              0-00-00/
                            0-0
                                NH2    -             NH2 -              NH2   -              NH2
      NH2                    N       \           N                     N                   N
                              N \N     N      N          N              N      N             N    N
   N             N              N                    N                  N                    N
            \N
     kN
                                                                                       ~~N
                   -~NS _                  HN4              HN                   HN-                HN
                    10    ,                   0                  or
                                                                 0                   0                 0
                                                                    78

NH 2    -N                                         NH 2      -NH               2    -NH               2
  N      N              N                                                NH                        N
       N                N                               N                        \NN
                                                           N        NN                                N
                              HN    HN-S..
              0                          0                       0                      0                   0
                                                                                             v \/               v \
                    NH            H2
                                                                             /        NH 2      -NH           2
                              2           -NH    -                                    NH
                                 H4                                                N                      NH2NH
                                       N                                           N
     NKN                                                    N       N  N               N             N            N
                                            NN\,                                              NN
    NH I                  NH                                                                               N\
             N                 N     N                         N
                                                                 N          NNN
                                                                                     ,N    N             b      N
           N                                                                                           Nt          N
                                                               N                       Ns
             0                               0-                                                                 0
          NH00                   00-0                          0-0                     0-0
               NH2 -   ~NH2-NH                            -
                                                                         N2NH 2NH
                            [IN                                                     NN",N
           0                        0                         0b
                                                                  N79H
                                                                                                                ,

                                         00                               0-                           0-                       0
                             NH2,     ----                    NH2     -                   NH2      -                  NH2
   NH2                   N         \                     N         \                   N-       \                  N        \
  N    NN                    N     N                          N    N                      N       N                   N     NN
         N                           N               O -             N                            -N                          HN
        NH 2
                N
                                                         0,          H N0N
        N     N
andN
In still another embodiment, compounds provided herein are selected from
                                                N
                                                \NH                                                                     2
             NH2   --                NH2     --                  NH2       -~NH               2      -            N       \
                                                             N
          NNN                                                 N                         N          ,N
           KN     NN                 N      NN                   N     NN                  N      NN
                      N                           N                           NN                                              N
among:                    0                           0    ,o                                                  ,             0\
                                   0-000                                                                         0
   NH2                  NN                                                              NiN
           NNH                   -    0mng          NH2  -     0              NH12   -                   NH2
                            2
          N             N                         N                  N                                 N             N
             HN                             N       N            N      \ NNN      N      N                  N     N
                   o    N              o        ,              o         ,                  0      ,                  o      ,and
                        N
                        N~
   NH2
 N                                                N
   N    N
             N
                                                                      80

[002631         In one aspect, provided herein is a compound selected from among: 1-(3-(4
amino-3-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-1 H-pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidin- 1-yl)piperidin-1 -yl)prop-2-en-1-one
(Compound 4); (E)-1-(3-(4-amino-3-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-1H-pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidin-1
yl)piperidin-1 -yl)but-2-en- 1-one (Compound 5); 1-(3-(4-amino-3-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-1H
pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidin-1-yl)piperidin-1-yl)sulfonylethene (Compound 6); 1-(3-(4-amino-3
(4-phenoxyphenyl)-1H-pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidin- 1-yl)piperidin- 1-yl)prop-2-yn- 1-one
(Compound 8); 1-(4-(4-amino-3-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-1H-pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidin-1
yl)piperidin-1 -yl)prop-2-en-1-one (Compound 9); N-((1s,4s)-4-(4-amino-3-(4-phenoxyphenyl)
1H-pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidin-1-yl)cyclohexyl)acrylamide (Compound 10); 1-((R)-3-(4-amino
3-(4-phenoxyphenyl)- 1H-pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidin-1 -yl)pyrrolidin- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one
(Compound 11); 1-((S)-3-(4-amino-3-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-1H-pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidin-1
yl)pyrrolidin- 1-yl)prop-2-en-1-one (Compound 12); 1-((R)-3-(4-amino-3-(4-phenoxyphenyl)
1H-pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidin- 1-yl)piperidin- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one (Compound 13); 1-((S)-3-(4
amino-3-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-1 H-pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidin- 1-yl)piperidin-1 -yl)prop-2-en-1-one
(Compound 14); and (E)-1-(3-(4-amino-3-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-1H-pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidin-1
yl)piperidin- 1-yl)-4-(dimethylamino)but-2-en- 1-one (Compound 15).
[00264]         In some embodiments, the Btk inhibitor is (R)-1-(3-(4-amino-3-(4
phenoxyphenyl)- 1H-pyrazolo [3,4-d]pyrimidin- 1-yl)piperidin- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one.
[002651         In one embodiment, the Btk inhibitor is a-cyano-P-hydroxy-p- methyl-N-(2,5
dibromophenyl)propenamide (LFM-A13), AVL-101, 4-tert-butyl-N-(3-(8
(phenylamino)imidazo[1,2-a]pyrazin-6-yl)phenyl)benzamide, 5-(3-amino-2-methylphenyl)-1
methyl-3-(4-(morpholine-4-carbonyl)phenylamino)pyrazin-2(1H)-one,       N-(2-methyl-3-(4
methyl-6-(4-(morpholine-4-carbonyl)phenylamino)-5-oxo-4,5-dihydropyrazin-2
yl)phenyl)acetamide, 4-tert-butyl-N-(2-methyl-3-(4-methyl-6-(4-(morpholine-4
carbonyl)phenylamino)-5-oxo-4,5-dihydropyrazin-2-yl)phenyl)benzamide,        5-(3-(4-tert
butylbenzylamino)-2-methylphenyl)-1-methyl-3-(4-(morpholine-4
carbonyl)phenylamino)pyrazin-2(1H)-one, 5-(3-(3-tert-butylbenzylamino)-2-methylphenyl)-1
methyl-3-(4-(morpholine-4-carbonyl)phenylamino)pyrazin-2(1H)-one,       3-tert-butyl-N-(2-methyl
3-(4-methyl-6-(4-(morpholine-4-carbonyl)phenylamino)-5-oxo-4,5-dihydropyrazin-2
yl)phenyl)benzamide, 6-tert-butyl-N-(2-methyl-3-(4-methyl-6-(4-(morpholine-4
carbonyl)phenylamino)-5-oxo-4,5-dihydropyrazin-2-yl)phenyl)nicotinamide,       and terreic acid.
[00266]         Throughout the specification, groups and substituents thereof can be chosen by
one skilled in the field to provide stable moieties and compounds.
                                                     81

    [002671         In certain embodiments, any of the Btk inhibitors and/or the second agent
    provided herein for the invention methods is included in a pharmaceutical composition
    comprising: i) a physiologically acceptable carrier, diluent, and/or excipient.
    [00268]         In some embodiments, the Btk inhibitor of the invention methods is administered
  5 at a dose of from about 1.25 mg/kg/day to about 12.5 mg/kg/day. In certain embodiments, the
    Btk inhibitor is administered at a dose selected from the group consisting of about 1.25
    mg/kg/day, about 2.5 mg/kg/day, about 5 mg/kg/day, about 8.3 mg/kg/day, or about 12.5
    mg/kg/day.
    [00269]         In some embodiments provide the biomarkers in accordance with the practice of
 t0 the present invention is selected from ZAP-70, CD5, t(14;18), CD38, 3-2 microglobulin, p53
    mutational status, ATM mutational status, chromosome 17p deletion, chromosome 11 q deletion,
    surface or cytoplasmic immunoglobulin, CD138, CD25, 6q deletion, CD19, CD20, CD22,
    CD1 Ic, CD 103, chromosome 7q deletion, and VH mutational status.
    [002701         In some embodiments, determining the expression or presence of one or more
 [5 biomarkers from one or more subpopulation of lymphocytes is of a combination of biomarkers.
    In certain embodiments, the combination of biomarkers is CD19 and CD5 or CD20 and CD5.
    [002711         In other embodiments, the second agent is administered at a dose of from about
    1.25 mg/kg/day to about 12.5 mg/kg/day. In certain embodiments, the second agent is
    administered at a dose selected from the group consisting of about 1.25 mg/kg/day, about 2.5
 !0 mg/kg/day, about 5 mg/kg/day, about 8.3 mg/kg/day, or about 12.5 mg/kg/day. The dosage of
    the second agent is based on the determined expression or presence of one or more biomarkers
    from one or more subpopulation of lymphocytes. A person skilled in the art such as a physician
    can readily determine the suitable regimen (e.g. dosage of the second agent) based on the
    diagnostic results.
25  [00272]         In other embodiments, the present invention provides methods for treating a
    cancer comprising determining the expression or presence of one or more biomarkers from one
    or more subpopulation of lymphocytes in a subject that has received a dose of a Btk inhibitor;
    and administering a second agent based on the determined expression profile.
    [00273]         In other embodiments, the present invention also provides methods for treating a
30  cancer comprising administering a Btk inhibitor sufficient to result in an increase or appearance
    in the blood of a subpopulation of lymphocytes defined by immunophenotyping; and
    administering a second agent once the increase or appearance in the blood of the subpopulation
    of lymphocytes is determined.
                                                        82

    [002741         In some embodiments, the subject is a human.
    [002751         In some embodiments, the Btk inhibitors are orally administered.
    [00276]         In any of the aforementioned aspects are further embodiments in which
    administration is enteral, parenteral, or both, and wherein (a) the effective amount of the Btk
  5 inhibitor is systemically administered to the mammal; (b) the effective amount of the Btk
    inhibitor is administered orally to the mammal; (c) the effective amount of the Btk inhibitor is
    intravenously administered to the mammal; (d) the effective amount of the Btk inhibitor
    administered by inhalation; (e) the effective amount of the Btk inhibitor is administered by nasal
    administration; or (f) the effective amount of the Btk inhibitor is administered by injection to the
 t0 mammal; (g) the effective amount of the Btk inhibitor is administered topically (dermal) to the
    mammal; (h) the effective amount of the Btk inhibitor is administered by ophthalmic
    administration; or (i) the effective amount of the Btk inhibitor is administered rectally to the
    mammal.
    [002771         In any of the aforementioned aspects are further embodiments comprising single
 [5 administrations of the effective amount of the Btk inhibitor, including further embodiments in
    which (i) the Btk inhibitor is administered once; (ii) the Btk inhibitor is administered to the
    mammal multiple times over the span of one day; (iii) continually; or (iv) continuously.
    [002781         In any of the aforementioned aspects are further embodiments comprising
    multiple administrations of the effective amount of the Btk inhibitor, including further
 !o embodiments in which (i) the Btk inhibitor is administered in a single dose; (ii) the time between
    multiple administrations is every 6 hours; (iii) the Btk inhibitor is administered to the mammal
    every 8 hours. In further or alternative embodiments, the method comprises a drug holiday,
    wherein the administration of the Btk inhibitor is temporarily suspended or the dose of the Btk
    inhibitor being administered is temporarily reduced; at the end of the drug holiday, dosing of the
25  Btk inhibitor is resumed. The length of the drug holiday can vary from 2 days to 1 year.
    [002791         In any of the aforementioned aspects are further embodiments in which
    administration is enteral, parenteral, or both, and wherein (a) the effective amount of the second
    agent is systemically administered to the mammal; (b) the effective amount of the second agent
    is administered orally to the mammal; (c) the effective amount of the second agent is
30  intravenously administered to the mammal; (d) the effective amount of the second agent
    administered by inhalation; (e) the effective amount of the second agent is administered by nasal
    administration; or (f) the effective amount of the second agent is administered by injection to the
    mammal; (g) the effective amount of the second agent is administered topically (dermal) to the
                                                         83

    mammal; (h) the effective amount of the second agent is administered by ophthalmic
    administration; or (i) the effective amount of the second agent is administered rectally to the
    mammal.
    [002801         In any of the aforementioned aspects are further embodiments comprising single
  5 administrations of the effective amount of second agent, including further embodiments in
    which (i) the second agent is administered once; (ii) the second agent is administered to the
    mammal multiple times over the span of one day; (iii) continually; or (iv) continuously.
    [002811         In any of the aforementioned aspects are further embodiments comprising
    multiple administrations of the effective amount of the second agent, including further
 t0 embodiments in which (i) the second agent is administered in a single dose; (ii) the time
    between multiple administrations is every 6 hours; (iii) the second agent is administered to the
    mammal every 8 hours. In further or alternative embodiments, the method comprises a drug
    holiday, wherein the administration of the second agent is temporarily suspended or the dose of
    the second agent being administered is temporarily reduced; at the end of the drug holiday,
 [5 dosing of the second agent is resumed. The length of the drug holiday can vary from 2 days to 1
    year.
    [00282]         In any of the aforementioned aspects the second agent is selected from the group
    consisting of alemtuzumab, arsenic trioxide, asparaginase (pegylated or non-), bevacizumab,
    cetuximab, platinum-based compounds such as cisplatin, cladribine,
 !o daunorubicin/doxorubicin/idarubicin, irinotecan, fludarabine, 5-fluorouracil, gemtuzumab,
    methotrexate, PaclitaxelTM, taxol, temozolomide, thioguanine, or classes of drugs including
    hormones (an antiestrogen, an antiandrogen, or gonadotropin releasing hormone analogues,
    interferons such as alpha interferon, nitrogen mustards such as busulfan or melphalan or
    mechlorethamine, retinoids such as tretinoin, topoisomerase inhibitors such as irinotecan or
25  topotecan, tyrosine kinase inhibitors such as gefinitinib or imatinib, or agents to treat signs or
    symptoms induced by such therapy including allopurinol, filgrastim,
    granisetron/ondansetron/palonosetron, dronabinol.
    Preparationof Compounds
    [00283]         Compounds of Formula D may be synthesized using standard synthetic
30  techniques known to those of skill in the art or using methods known in the art in combination
    with methods described herein. In additions, solvents, temperatures and other reaction
    conditions presented herein may vary according to those of skill in the art. As a further guide the
    following synthetic methods may also be utilized.
                                                        84

   [002841         The reactions can be employed in a linear sequence to provide the compounds
   described herein or they may be used to synthesize fragments which are subsequently joined by
   the methods described herein and/or known in the art.
   Formationof Covalent Linkages by Reaction of an Electrophile with a Nucleophile
 5 [002851         The compounds described herein can be modified using various electrophiles or
   nucleophiles to form new functional groups or substituents. Table 1 entitled "Examples of
   Covalent Linkages and Precursors Thereof' lists selected examples of covalent linkages and
   precursor functional groups which yield and can be used as guidance toward the variety of
   electrophiles and nucleophiles combinations available. Precursor functional groups are shown as
t0 electrophilic groups and nucleophilic groups.
   Table 1: Examples of Covalent Linkages and Precursors Thereof
      Covalen LIkg Produc                   l~ethile                                eohile
                                                                                   &I
           Carboxamides                     Activated ester                     amines/anilines
           Carboxamides                     acyl azides                         amines/anilines
           Carboxamides                     acyl halides                        amines/anilines
           Esters                           acyl halides                        alcohols/phenols
           Esters                           acyl nitriles                       alcohols/phenols
           Carboxamides                     acyl nitriles                       amines/anilines
           Imines                           Aldehydes                           amines/anilines
           Hydrazones                       aldehydes or ketones                Hydrazines
           Oximes                           aldehydes or ketones                Hydroxylamines
           Alkyl amines                     alkyl halides                       amines/anilines
           Esters                           alkyl halides                       carboxylic acids
           Thioethers                       alkyl halides                       Thiols
           Ethers                           alkyl halides                       alcohols/phenols
           Thioethers                       alkyl sulfonates                    Thiols
           Esters                           alkyl sulfonates                    carboxylic acids
           Ethers                           alkyl sulfonates                    alcohols/phenols
           Esters                           Anhydrides                          alcohols/phenols
           Carboxamides                     Anhydrides                          amines/anilines
           Thiophenols                      aryl halides                        Thiols
           Aryl amines                      aryl halides                       Amines
           Thioethers                       Azindines                           Thiols
                                                      85

       Boronate esters       Boronates             Glycols
       Carboxamides          carboxylic acids      amines/anilines
       Esters                carboxylic acids      Alcohols
       hydrazines            Hydrazides            carboxylic acids
   N-acylureas or Anhydrides carbodiimides         carboxylic acids
       Esters                diazoalkanes          carboxylic acids
       Thioethers            Epoxides              Thiols
       Thioethers            haloacetamides        Thiols
       Ammotriazines         halotriazines         amines/anilines
       Triazinyl ethers      halotriazines         alcohols/phenols
       Amidines              imido esters          amines/anilines
       Ureas                 Isocyanates           amines/anilines
       Urethanes             Isocyanates           alcohols/phenols
       Thioureas             isothiocyanates       amines/anilines
       Thioethers            Maleimides            Thiols
       Phosphite esters      phosphoramidites      Alcohols
       Silyl ethers          silyl halides         Alcohols
       Alkyl amines          sulfonate esters      amines/anilines
       Thioethers            sulfonate esters      Thiols
       Esters                sulfonate esters      carboxylic acids
       Ethers                sulfonate esters      Alcohols
       Sulfonamides          sulfonyl halides      amines/anilines
       Sulfonate esters      sulfonyl halides      phenols/alcohols
       Alkyl thiol           a,p-unsaturated ester thiols
       Alkyl ethers          a,-unsaturated ester  alcohols
       Alkyl amines          a,p-unsaturated ester amines
       Alkyl thiol           Vinyl sulfone         thiols
       Alkyl ethers          Vinyl sulfone         alcohols
       Alkyl amines          Vinyl sulfone         amines
       Vinyl sulfide         Propargyl amide       thiol
Use of Protecting Groups
                                       86

    [002861         In the reactions described, it may be necessary to protect reactive functional
    groups, for example hydroxy, amino, imino, thio or carboxy groups, where these are desired in
    the final product, to avoid their unwanted participation in the reactions. Protecting groups are
    used to block some or all reactive moieties and prevent such groups from participating in
  5 chemical reactions until the protective group is removed. In one embodiment, each protective
    group be removable by a different means. Protective groups that are cleaved under totally
    disparate reaction conditions fulfill the requirement of differential removal. Protective groups
    can be removed by acid, base, and hydrogenolysis. Groups such as trityl, dimethoxytrityl, acetal
    and t-butyldimethylsilyl are acid labile and may be used to protect carboxy and hydroxy reactive
 t0 moieties in the presence of amino groups protected with Cbz groups, which are removable by
    hydrogenolysis, and Fmoc groups, which are base labile. Carboxylic acid and hydroxy reactive
    moieties may be blocked with base labile groups such as, but not limited to, methyl, ethyl, and
    acetyl in the presence of amines blocked with acid labile groups such as t-butyl carbamate or
    with carbamates that are both acid and base stable but hydrolytically removable.
 [5 [002871         Carboxylic acid and hydroxy reactive moieties may also be blocked with
    hydrolytically removable protective groups such as the benzyl group, while amine groups
    capable of hydrogen bonding with acids may be blocked with base labile groups such as Fmoc.
    Carboxylic acid reactive moieties may be protected by conversion to simple ester compounds as
    exemplified herein, or they may be blocked with oxidatively-removable protective groups such
 !o as 2,4-dimethoxybenzyl, while co-existing amino groups may be blocked with fluoride labile
    silyl carbamates.
    [00288]         Allyl blocking groups are useful in then presence of acid- and base- protecting
    groups since the former are stable and can be subsequently removed by metal or pi-acid
    catalysts. For example, an allyl-blocked carboxylic acid can be deprotected with a Pd4-catalyzed
25  reaction in the presence of acid labile t-butyl carbamate or base-labile acetate amine protecting
    groups. Yet another form of protecting group is a resin to which a compound or intermediate
    may be attached. As long as the residue is attached to the resin, that functional group is blocked
    and cannot react. Once released from the resin, the functional group is available to react.
    [00289]         Typically blocking/protecting groups may be selected from:
                                                        87

                                  H2                       O
         H
         H2           H2          C              c   '   ).             H2CH3H                 HC
                    2                                                                  O)
               allyl         Bn                  Cbz                        alloc               Me
               H2                                   H3C        ICH 3                   H2
        H3C-                     (H 3C) 3C-    (H3 C) 3 C Ni               (CH 3 )3 C'             O'-0
               Et                  t-butyl           TBDMS                                Teoc
                                                                                                        0
                                            H2
                                        ol C--                              O                  H2C
     (CH 3) 3C              H3CO                 (C 6 H5 )3 C-        H3 C   K
                         0  H 3 C0'
                                 )a
                Boc                 PMB             trityl               acetyl
                                                                                               Fmoc
    [002901              Other protecting groups, plus a detailed description of techniques applicable to
    the creation of protecting groups and their removal are described in Greene and Wuts, Protective
    Groups in Organic Synthesis, 3rd Ed., John Wiley & Sons, New York, NY, 1999, and
  5 Kocienski, Protective Groups, Thieme Verlag, New York, NY, 1994, which are incorporated
    herein by reference in their entirety.
    FurtherForms of Compounds
    [00291]              The compounds described herein may possess one or more stereocenters and each
    center may exist in the R or S configuration. The compounds presented herein include all
 to diastereomeric, enantiomeric, and epimeric forms as well as the appropriate mixtures thereof.
    Stereoisomers may be obtained, if desired, by methods known in the art as, for example, the
    separation of stereoisomers by chiral chromatographic columns.
    [00292]              Diasteromeric mixtures can be separated into their individual diastereomers on
    the basis of their physical chemical differences by methods known, for example, by
15  chromatography and/or fractional crystallization. In one embodiment, enantiomers can be
    separated by chiral chromatographic columns. In other embodiments, enantiomers can be
    separated by converting the enantiomeric mixture into a diastereomeric mixture by reaction with
    an appropriate optically active compound (e.g., alcohol), separating the diastereomers and
    converting (e.g., hydrolyzing) the individual diastereomers to the corresponding pure
20  enantiomers. All such isomers, including diastereomers, enantiomers, and mixtures thereof are
    considered as part of the compositions described herein.
    [00293]              The methods and formulations described herein include the use of N-oxides,
    crystalline forms (also known as polymorphs), or pharmaceutically acceptable salts of
    compounds described herein, as well as active metabolites of these compounds having the same
25  type of activity. In some situations, compounds may exist as tautomers. All tautomers are
                                                                     88

    included within the scope of the compounds presented herein. In addition, the compounds
    described herein can exist in unsolvated as well as solvated forms with pharmaceutically
    acceptable solvents such as water, ethanol, and the like. The solvated forms of the compounds
    presented herein are also considered to be disclosed herein.
  5 [00294]          Compounds of Formula D in unoxidized form can be prepared from N-oxides of
    compounds of Formula D by treating with a reducing agent, such as, but not limited to, sulfur,
    sulfur dioxide, triphenyl phosphine, lithium borohydride, sodium borohydride, phosphorus
    trichloride, tribromide, or the like in a suitable inert organic solvent, such as, but not limited to,
    acetonitrile, ethanol, aqueous dioxane, or the like at 0 to 80'C.
 to [00295]          In some embodiments, compounds described herein are prepared as prodrugs. A
    "prodrug" refers to an agent that is converted into the parent drug in vivo. Prodrugs are often
    useful because, in some situations, they may be easier to administer than the parent drug. They
    may, for instance, be bioavailable by oral administration whereas the parent is not. The prodrug
    may also have improved solubility in pharmaceutical compositions over the parent drug. An
 [5 example, without limitation, of a prodrug would be a compound described herein, which is
    administered as an ester (the "prodrug") to facilitate transmittal across a cell membrane where
    water solubility is detrimental to mobility but which then is metabolically hydrolyzed to the
    carboxylic acid, the active entity, once inside the cell where water-solubility is beneficial. A
    further example of a prodrug might be a short peptide (polyaminoacid) bonded to an acid group
 !0 where the peptide is metabolized to reveal the active moiety. In certain embodiments, upon in
    vivo administration, a prodrug is chemically converted to the biologically, pharmaceutically or
    therapeutically active form of the compound. In certain embodiments, a prodrug is
    enzymatically metabolized by one or more steps or processes to the biologically,
    pharmaceutically or therapeutically active form of the compound. To produce a prodrug, a
25  pharmaceutically active compound is modified such that the active compound will be
    regenerated upon in vivo administration. The prodrug can be designed to alter the metabolic
    stability or the transport characteristics of a drug, to mask side effects or toxicity, to improve the
    flavor of a drug or to alter other characteristics or properties of a drug. By virtue of knowledge
    of pharmacodynamic processes and drug metabolism in vivo, those of skill in this art, once a
30  pharmaceutically active compound is known, can design prodrugs of the compound. (see, for
    example, Nogrady (1985) Medicinal Chemistry A BiochemicalApproach, Oxford University
    Press, New York, pages 388-392; Silverman (1992), The Organic Chemistry of Drug Design
                                                          89

    and Drug Action, Academic Press, Inc., San Diego, pages 352-401, Saulnier et al., (1994),
    Bioorganicand Medicinal Chemistry Letters, Vol. 4, p. 1985).
    [00296]          Prodrug forms of the herein described compounds, wherein the prodrug is
    metabolized in vivo to produce a derivative as set forth herein are included within the scope of
  5 the claims. In some cases, some of the herein-described compounds may be a prodrug for
    another derivative or active compound.
    [002971          Prodrugs are often useful because, in some situations, they may be easier to
    administer than the parent drug. They may, for instance, be bioavailable by oral administration
    whereas the parent is not. The prodrug may also have improved solubility in pharmaceutical
 t0 compositions over the parent drug. Prodrugs may be designed as reversible drug derivatives, for
    use as modifiers to enhance drug transport to site-specific tissues. In some embodiments, the
    design of a prodrug increases the effective water solubility. See, e.g., Fedorak et al., Am. J.
    Physiol., 269:G210-218 (1995); McLoed et al., Gastroenterol,106:405-413 (1994); Hochhaus et
    al., Biomed. Chrom., 6:283-286 (1992); J. Larsen and H. Bundgaard, Int. J. Pharmaceutics,37,
 [5 87 (1987); J. Larsen et al., Int. J. Pharmaceutics,47, 103 (1988); Sinkula et al., J. Pharm. Sci.,
    64:181-210 (1975); T. Higuchi and V. Stella, Pro-drugsas Novel Delivery Systems, Vol. 14 of
    the A.C.S. Symposium Series; and Edward B. Roche, Bioreversible Carriersin Drug Design,
    American Pharmaceutical Association and Pergamon Press, 1987, all incorporated herein in
    their entirety.
 !o [00298]          Sites on the aromatic ring portion of compounds of Formula D can be susceptible
    to various metabolic reactions, therefore incorporation of appropriate substituents on the
    aromatic ring structures, such as, by way of example only, halogens can reduce, minimize or
    eliminate this metabolic pathway.
    [00299]          Compounds described herein include isotopically-labeled compounds, which are
25  identical to those recited in the various formulas and structures presented herein, but for the fact
    that one or more atoms are replaced by an atom having an atomic mass or mass number different
    from the atomic mass or mass number usually found in nature. Examples of isotopes that can be
    incorporated into the present compounds include isotopes of hydrogen, carbon, nitrogen,
    oxygen, fluorine and chlorine, such as 2H, 3H, 1C, 4C, 1N, 180,       o,  5S, 8 F, 36Cl, respectively.
30  Certain isotopically-labeled compounds described herein, for example those into which
    radioactive isotopes such as 3H and 4C are incorporated, are useful in drug and/or substrate
    tissue distribution assays. Further, substitution with isotopes such as deuterium, i.e., 2H, can
                                                         90

    afford certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability, for example
    increased in vivo half-life or reduced dosage requirements.
    [00300]          In additional or further embodiments, the compounds described herein are
    metabolized upon administration to an organism in need to produce a metabolite that is then
  5 used to produce a desired effect, including a desired therapeutic effect.
    [00301]          Compounds described herein may be formed as, and/or used as, pharmaceutically
    acceptable salts. The type of pharmaceutical acceptable salts, include, but are not limited to: (1)
    acid addition salts, formed ) by reacting the free base form of the compound with a
    pharmaceutically acceptable: inorganic acid such as hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid,
 t0 sulfuric acid, nitric acid, phosphoric acid, metaphosphoric acid, and the like; or with an organic
    acid such as acetic acid, propionic acid, hexanoic acid, cyclopentanepropionic acid, glycolic
    acid, pyruvic acid, lactic acid, malonic acid, succinic acid, malic acid, maleic acid, fumaric acid,
    trifluoroacetic acid, tartaric acid, citric acid, benzoic acid, 3-(4-hydroxybenzoyl)benzoic acid,
    cinnamic acid, mandelic acid, methanesulfonic acid, ethanesulfonic acid, 1,2-ethanedisulfonic
  5 acid, 2-hydroxyethanesulfonic acid, benzenesulfonic acid, toluenesulfonic acid, 2
    naphthalenesulfonic acid, 4-methylbicyclo-[2.2.2]oct-2-ene-1-carboxylic acid, glucoheptonic
    acid, 4,4'-methylenebis-(3-hydroxy-2-ene-1 -carboxylic acid), 3-phenylpropionic acid,
    trimethylacetic acid, tertiary butylacetic acid, lauryl sulfuric acid, gluconic acid, glutamic acid,
    hydroxynaphthoic acid, salicylic acid, stearic acid, muconic acid, and the like; (2) salts formed
 !0 when an acidic proton present in the parent compound either is replaced by a metal ion, e.g., an
    alkali metal ion (e.g. lithium, sodium, potassium), an alkaline earth ion (e.g. magnesium, or
    calcium), or an aluminum ion; or coordinates with an organic base. Acceptable organic bases
    include ethanolamine, diethanolamine, triethanolamine, tromethamine, N-methylglucamine, and
    the like. Acceptable inorganic bases include aluminum hydroxide, calcium hydroxide, potassium
25  hydroxide, sodium carbonate, sodium hydroxide, and the like.
    [00302]          The corresponding counterions of the pharmaceutically acceptable salts may be
    analyzed and identified using various methods including, but not limited to, ion exchange
    chromatography, ion chromatography, capillary electrophoresis, inductively coupled plasma,
    atomic absorption spectroscopy, mass spectrometry, or any combination thereof.
30  [00303]          The salts are recovered by using at least one of the following techniques:
    filtration, precipitation with a non-solvent followed by filtration, evaporation of the solvent, or,
    in the case of aqueous solutions, lyophilization.
                                                           91

    [003041          It should be understood that a reference to a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
    includes the solvent addition forms or crystal forms thereof, particularly solvates or polymorphs.
    Solvates contain either stoichiometric or non-stoichiometric amounts of a solvent, and may be
    formed during the process of crystallization with pharmaceutically acceptable solvents such as
  5 water, ethanol, and the like. Hydrates are formed when the solvent is water, or alcoholates are
    formed when the solvent is alcohol. Solvates of compounds described herein can be
    conveniently prepared or formed during the processes described herein. In addition, the
    compounds provided herein can exist in unsolvated as well as solvated forms. In general, the
    solvated forms are considered equivalent to the unsolvated forms for the purposes of the
 t0 compounds and methods provided herein.
    [003051          It should be understood that a reference to a salt includes the solvent addition
    forms or crystal forms thereof, particularly solvates or polymorphs. Solvates contain either
    stoichiometric or non-stoichiometric amounts of a solvent, and are often formed during the
    process of crystallization with pharmaceutically acceptable solvents such as water, ethanol, and
 [5 the like. Hydrates are formed when the solvent is water, or alcoholates are formed when the
    solvent is alcohol. Polymorphs include the different crystal packing arrangements of the same
    elemental composition of a compound. Polymorphs usually have different X-ray diffraction
    patterns, infrared spectra, melting points, density, hardness, crystal shape, optical and electrical
    properties, stability, and solubility. Various factors such as the recrystallization solvent, rate of
 !o crystallization, and storage temperature may cause a single crystal form to dominate.
    [003061          Compounds described herein may be in various forms, including but not limited
    to, amorphous forms, milled forms and nano-particulate forms. In addition, compounds
    described herein include crystalline forms, also known as polymorphs. Polymorphs include the
    different crystal packing arrangements of the same elemental composition of a compound.
25  Polymorphs usually have different X-ray diffraction patterns, infrared spectra, melting points,
    density, hardness, crystal shape, optical and electrical properties, stability, and solubility.
    Various factors such as the recrystallization solvent, rate of crystallization, and storage
    temperature may cause a single crystal form to dominate.
    [003071          The screening and characterization of the pharmaceutically acceptable salts,
30  polymorphs and/or solvates may be accomplished using a variety of techniques including, but
    not limited to, thermal analysis, x-ray diffraction, spectroscopy, vapor sorption, and microscopy.
    Thermal analysis methods address thermo chemical degradation or thermo physical processes
    including, but not limited to, polymorphic transitions, and such methods are used to analyze the
                                                         92

    relationships between polymorphic forms, determine weight loss, to find the glass transition
    temperature, or for excipient compatibility studies. Such methods include, but are not limited to,
    Differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), Modulated Differential Scanning Calorimetry
    (MDCS), Thermogravimetric analysis (TGA), and Thermogravi-metric and Infrared analysis
  5 (TG/IR). X-ray diffraction methods include, but are not limited to, single crystal and powder
    diffractometers and synchrotron sources. The various spectroscopic techniques used include, but
    are not limited to, Raman, FTIR, UVIS, and NMR (liquid and solid state). The various
    microscopy techniques include, but are not limited to, polarized light microscopy, Scanning
    Electron Microscopy (SEM) with Energy Dispersive X-Ray Analysis (EDX), Environmental
 t0 Scanning Electron Microscopy with EDX (in gas or water vapor atmosphere), IR microscopy,
    and Raman microscopy.
    [00308]          Throughout the specification, groups and substituents thereof can be chosen by
    one skilled in the field to provide stable moieties and compounds.
    Cancer Treatment Regimens
 t5 Disclosed herein, in certain embodiments, is a method for treating a hematological malignancy
    in an individual in need thereof, comprising: (a) administering to the individual an amount of an
    irreversible Btk inhibitor sufficient to mobilize a plurality of cells from the malignancy; and (b)
    analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells. In some embodiments, the amount of the irreversible
    Btk inhibitor is sufficient to induce lymphocytosis of a plurality of cells from the malignancy. In
 !o some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells comprises measuring the
    peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells. In some embodiments, the
    method further comprises administering a second cancer treatment regimen after the peripheral
    blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells increases as compared to the
    concentration before administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, administering
25  the second cancer treatment regimen occurs after a subsequent decrease in peripheral blood
    concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells. In some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized
    plurality of cells comprises measuring the duration of an increase in the peripheral blood
    concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells as compared to the concentration before
    administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, the method further comprises
30  administering a second cancer treatment regimen after the peripheral blood concentration of the
    mobilized plurality of cells has increased for a predetermined length of time. In some
    embodiments, analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells comprises counting the number of
    mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood. In some embodiments, the method further
                                                         93

    comprises administering a second cancer treatment regimen after the number of mobilized
    plurality of cells in the peripheral blood increases as compared to the number before
    administration of the Btk inhibitor. In some embodiments, administering the second cancer
    treatment regimen occurs after a subsequent decrease in the number of mobilized plurality of
  5 cells in the peripheral blood. In some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells
    comprises measuring the duration of an increase in the number of mobilized plurality of cells in
    the peripheral blood as compared to the number before administration of the Btk inhibitor. In
    some embodiments, the method further comprises administering a second cancer treatment
    regimen after the number of mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood has increased for
 t0 a predetermined length of time.
    [00309]          In some embodiments, administering a Btk inhibitor before a second cancer
    treatment regimen reduces immune-mediated reactions to the second cancer treatment regimen.
    In some embodiments, administering a Btk inhibitor before ofatumumab reduces immune
    mediated reactions to ofatumumab.
 [5 In some embodiments, the second cancer treatment regimen comprises a chemotherapeutic
    agent, a steroid, an immunotherapeutic agent, a targeted therapy, or a combination thereof. In
    some embodiments, the second cancer treatment regimen comprises a B cell receptor pathway
    inhibitor. In some embodiments, the B cell receptor pathway inhibitor is a CD79A inhibitor, a
    CD79B inhibitor, a CD19 inhibitor, a Lyn inhibitor, a Syk inhibitor, a P13K inhibitor, a Blnk
 !o inhibitor, a PLCy inhibitor, a PKCP inhibitor, or a combination thereof. In some embodiments,
    the second cancer treatment regimen comprises an antibody, B cell receptor signaling inhibitor,
    a P13K inhibitor, an IAP inhibitor, an mTOR inhibitor, a radioimmunotherapeutic, a DNA
    damaging agent, a proteosome inhibitor, a histone deacytlase inhibitor, a protein kinase
    inhibitor, a hedgehog inhibitor, an Hsp90 inhibitor, a telomerase inhibitor, a Jakl/2 inhibitor, a
25  protease inhibitor, a PKC inhibitor, a PARP inhibitor, or a combination thereof.
    [003101          In some embodiments, the second cancer treatment regimen comprises
    chlorambucil, ifosphamide, doxorubicin, mesalazine, thalidomide, lenalidomide, temsirolimus,
    everolimus, fludarabine, fostamatinib, paclitaxel, docetaxel, ofatumumab, rituximab,
    dexamethasone, prednisone, CAL-101, ibritumomab, tositumomab, bortezomib, pentostatin,
30  endostatin, or a combination thereof.
    [003111          In some embodiments, the second cancer treatment regimen comprises
    cyclophosphamide, hydroxydaunorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone, and optionally, rituximab.
                                                         94

    [003121         In some embodiments, the second cancer treatment regimen comprises
    bendamustine, and rituximab.
    [003131         In some embodiments, the second cancer treatment regimen comprises
    fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, and rituximab.
  5 [00314]         In some embodiments, the second cancer treatment regimen comprises
    cyclophosphamide, vincristine, and prednisone, and optionally, rituximab.
    [003151         In some embodiments, the second cancer treatment regimen comprises etoposide,
    doxorubicin, vinristine, cyclophosphamide, prednisolone, and optionally, rituximab.
    [00316]         In some embodiments, the second cancer treatment regimen comprises
 to dexamethasone and lenalidomide.
    [003171         Additional cancer treatment regimens include Nitrogen Mustards such as for
    example, bendamustine, chlorambucil, chlormethine, cyclophosphamide, ifosfamide, melphalan,
    prednimustine, trofosfamide; Alkyl Sulfonates like busulfan, mannosulfan, treosulfan; Ethylene
    Imines like carboquone, thiotepa, triaziquone; Nitrosoureas like carmustine, fotemustine,
 [5 lomustine, nimustine, ranimustine, semustine, streptozocin; Epoxides such as for example,
    etoglucid; Other Alkylating Agents such as for example dacarbazine, mitobronitol, pipobroman,
    temozolomide; Folic Acid Analogues such as for example methotrexate, permetrexed,
    pralatrexate, raltitrexed; Purine Analogs such as for example cladribine, clofarabine, fludarabine,
    mercaptopurine, nelarabine, tioguanine; Pyrimidine Analogs such as for example azacitidine,
 !o capecitabine, carmofur, cytarabine, decitabine, fluorouracil, gemcitabine, tegafur; Vinca
    Alkaloids such as for example vinblastine, vincristine, vindesine, vinflunine, vinorelbine;
    Podophyllotoxin Derivatives such as for example etoposide, teniposide; Colchicine derivatives
    such as for example demecolcine; Taxanes such as for example docetaxel, paclitaxel, paclitaxel
    poliglumex; Other Plant Alkaloids and Natural Products such as for example trabectedin;
25  Actinomycines such as for example dactinomycin; Antracyclines such as for example
    aclarubicin, daunorubicin, doxorubicin, epirubicin, idarubicin, mitoxantrone, pirarubicin,
    valrubicin, zorubincin; Other Cytotoxic Antibiotics such as for example bleomycin, ixabepilone,
    mitomycin, plicamycin; Platinum Compounds such as for example carboplatin, cisplatin,
    oxaliplatin, satraplatin; Methylhydrazines such as for example procarbazine; Sensitizers such as
30  for example aminolevulinic acid, efaproxiral, methyl aminolevulinate, porfimer sodium,
    temoporfin; Protein Kinase Inhibitors such as for example dasatinib, erlotinib, everolimus,
    gefitinib, imatinib, lapatinib, nilotinib, pazonanib, sorafenib, sunitinib, temsirolimus; Other
    Antineoplastic Agents such as for example alitretinoin, altretamine, amzacrine, anagrelide,
                                                         95

    arsenic trioxide, asparaginase, bexarotene, bortezomib, celecoxib, denileukin diftitox,
    estramustine, hydroxycarbamide, irinotecan, lonidamine, masoprocol, miltefosein, mitoguazone,
    mitotane, oblimersen, pegaspargase, pentostatin, romidepsin, sitimagene ceradenovec,
    tiazofurine, topotecan, tretinoin, vorinostat; Estrogens such as for example diethylstilbenol,
  5 ethinylestradiol, fosfestrol, polyestradiol phosphate; Progestogens such as for example
    gestonorone, medroxyprogesterone, megestrol; Gonadotropin Releasing Hormone Analogs such
    as for example buserelin, goserelin, leuprorelin, triptorelin; Anti-Estrogens such as for example
    fulvestrant, tamoxifen, toremifene; Anti-Androgens such as for example bicalutamide,
    flutamide, nilutamide, , Enzyme Inhibitors, aminoglutethimide, anastrozole, exemestane,
 t0 formestane, letrozole, vorozole; Other Hormone Antagonists such as for example abarelix,
    degarelix; Immunostimulants such as for example histamine dihydrochloride, mifamurtide,
    pidotimod, plerixafor, roquinimex, thymopentin; Immunosuppressants such as for example
    everolimus, gusperimus, leflunomide, mycophenolic acid, sirolimus; Calcineurin Inhibitors such
    as for example ciclosporin, tacrolimus; Other Immunosuppressants such as for example
  5 azathioprine, lenalidomide, methotrexate, thalidomide; and Radiopharmaceuticals such as for
    example, iobenguane.
    [00318]         Additional cancer treatment regimens include interferons, interleukins, Tumor
    Necrosis Factors, Growth Factors, or the like.
    [00319]         Additional cancer treatment regimens include Immunostimulants such as for
 !0 example ancestim, filgrastim, lenograstim, molgramostim, pegfilgrastim, sargramostim;
    Interferons such as for example interferon alfa natural, interferon alfa-2a, interferon alfa-2b,
    interferon alfacon-1, interferon alfa-n1, interferon beta natural, interferon beta-la, interferon
    beta-1b, interferon gamma, peginterferon alfa-2a, peginterferon alfa-2b; Interleukins such as for
    example aldesleukin, oprelvekin; Other Immunostimulants such as for example BCG vaccine,
25  glatiramer acetate, histamine dihydrochloride, immunocyanin, lentinan, melanoma vaccine,
    mifamurtide, pegademase, pidotimod, plerixafor, poly I:C, poly ICLC, roquinimex, tasonermin,
    thymopentin; Immunosuppressants such as for example abatacept, abetimus, alefacept,
    antilymphocyte immunoglobulin (horse), antithymocyte immunoglobulin (rabbit), eculizumab,
    efalizumab, everolimus, gusperimus, leflunomide, muromab-CD3, mycophenolic acid,
30  natalizumab, sirolimus; TNF alpha Inhibitors such as for example adalimumab, afelimomab,
    certolizumab pegol, etanercept, golimumab, infliximab; Interleukin Inhibitors such as for
    example anakinra, basiliximab, canakinumab, daclizumab, mepolizumab, rilonacept,
    tocilizumab, ustekinumab; Calcineurin Inhibitors such as for example ciclosporin, tacrolimus;
                                                         96

    Other Immunosuppressants such as for example azathioprine, lenalidomide, methotrexate,
    thalidomide.
    [00320]        Additional cancer treatment regimens include Adalimumab, Alemtuzumab,
    Basiliximab, Bevacizumab, Cetuximab, Certolizumab pegol, Daclizumab, Eculizumab,
  5 Efalizumab, Gemtuzumab, Ibritumomab tiuxetan, Infliximab, Muromonab-CD3, Natalizumab,
    Panitumumab, Ranibizumab, Rituximab, Tositumomab, Trastuzumab, or the like, or a
    combination thereof
    [00321]        Additional cancer treatment regimens include Monoclonal Antibodies such as for
    example alemtuzumab, bevacizumab, catumaxomab, cetuximab, edrecolomab, gemtuzumab,
 t0 ofatumumab, panitumumab, rituximab, trastuzumab, , Immunosuppressants, eculizumab,
    efalizumab, muromab-CD3, natalizumab; TNF alpha Inhibitors such as for example
    adalimumab, afelimomab, certolizumab pegol, golimumab, infliximab, , Interleukin Inhibitors,
    basiliximab, canakinumab, daclizumab, mepolizumab, tocilizumab, ustekinumab, ,
    Radiopharmaceuticals, ibritumomab tiuxetan, tositumomab; Others Monoclonal Antibodies such
  5 as for example abagovomab, adecatumumab, alemtuzumab, anti-CD30 monoclonal antibody
    Xmab2513, anti-MET monoclonal antibody MetMab, apolizumab, apomab, arcitumomab,
    basiliximab, bispecific antibody 2B 1, blinatumomab, brentuximab vedotin, capromab pendetide,
    cixutumumab, claudiximab, conatumumab, dacetuzumab, denosumab, eculizumab,
    epratuzumab, epratuzumab, ertumaxomab, etaracizumab, figitumumab, fresolimumab,
 !o galiximab, ganitumab, gemtuzumab ozogamicin, glembatumumab, ibritumomab, inotuzumab
    ozogamicin, ipilimumab, lexatumumab, lintuzumab, lintuzumab, lucatumumab, mapatumumab,
    matuzumab, milatuzumab, monoclonal antibody CC49, necitumumab, nimotuzumab,
    ofatumumab, oregovomab, pertuzumab, ramacurimab, ranibizumab, siplizumab, sonepcizumab,
    tanezumab, tositumomab, trastuzumab, tremelimumab, tucotuzumab celmoleukin, veltuzumab,
25  visilizumab, volociximab, zalutumumab.
    [00322]        Additional cancer treatment regimens include agents that affect the tumor micro
    enviroment such as cellular signaling network (e.g. phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (P13K)
    signaling pathway, signaling from the B-cell receptor and the IgE receptor). In some
    embodiments, the second agent is a P13K signaling inhibitor or a syc kinase inhibitor. In one
30  embodiment, the syk inhibitor is R788. In another embodiment is a PKCy inhibitor such as by
    way of example only, enzastaurin.
    [00323]        Examples of agents that affect the tumor micro-environment include P13K
    signaling inhibitor, syc kinase inhibitor, Protein Kinase Inhibitors such as for example dasatinib,
                                                        97

    erlotinib, everolimus, gefitinib, imatinib, lapatinib, nilotinib, pazonanib, sorafenib, sunitinib,
    temsirolimus; Other Angiogenesis Inhibitors such as for example GT-1 11, JI-101, R1530; Other
    Kinase Inhibitors such as for example AC220, AC480, ACE-041, AMG 900, AP24534, Arry
    614, AT7519, AT9283, AV-951, axitinib, AZD1 152, AZD7762, AZD8055, AZD8931,
  5 bafetinib, BAY 73-4506, BGJ398, BGT226, BI 811283, B16727, BIBF 1120, BIBW 2992,
    BMS-690154, BMS-777607, BMS-863233, BSK-461364, CAL-101, CEP-1 1981, CYCI 16,
    DCC-2036, dinaciclib, dovitinib lactate, E7050, EMD 1214063, ENMD-2076, fostamatinib
    disodium, GSK2256098, GSK690693, INCB18424, INNO-406, JNJ-26483327, JX-594, KX2
    391, linifanib, LY2603618, MGCD265, MK-0457, MK1496, MLN8054, MLN8237, MP470,
 to NMS-1 116354, NMS-1286937, ON 01919.Na, OSI-027, OSI-930, Btk inhibitor, PF-00562271,
    PF-02341066, PF-03814735, PF-04217903, PF-04554878, PF-04691502, PF-3758309, PHA
    739358, PLC3397, progenipoietin, R547, R763, ramucirumab, regorafenib, RO5185426,
    SAR103168, S3333333CH 727965, SGI-1176, SGX523, SNS-314, TAK-593, TAK-901,
    TK1258, TLN-232, TTP607, XL147, XL228, XL281RO5126766, XL418, XL765.
 [5 [00324]         Further examples of anti-cancer agents for use in combination with a Btk
    inhibitor compound include inhibitors of mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling, e.g.,
    U0126, PD98059, PD184352, PD0325901, ARRY-142886, SB239063, SP600125, BAY 43
    9006, wortmannin, or LY294002; Syk inhibitors; mTOR inhibitors; and antibodies (e.g.,
    rituxan).
 !o [00325]         Other anti-cancer agents that can be employed in combination with a Btk
    inhibitor compound include Adriamycin, Dactinomycin, Bleomycin, Vinblastine, Cisplatin,
    acivicin; aclarubicin; acodazole hydrochloride; acronine; adozelesin; aldesleukin; altretamine;
    ambomycin; ametantrone acetate; aminoglutethimide; amsacrine; anastrozole; anthramycin;
    asparaginase; asperlin; azacitidine; azetepa; azotomycin; batimastat; benzodepa; bicalutamide;
25  bisantrene hydrochloride; bisnafide dimesylate; bizelesin; bleomycin sulfate; brequinar sodium;
    bropirimine; busulfan; cactinomycin; calusterone; caracemide; carbetimer; carboplatin;
    carmustine; carubicin hydrochloride; carzelesin; cedefingol; chlorambucil; cirolemycin;
    cladribine; crisnatol mesylate; cyclophosphamide; cytarabine; dacarbazine; daunorubicin
    hydrochloride; decitabine; dexormaplatin; dezaguanine; dezaguanine mesylate; diaziquone;
30  doxorubicin; doxorubicin hydrochloride; droloxifene; droloxifene citrate; dromostanolone
    propionate; duazomycin; edatrexate; eflomithine hydrochloride; elsamitrucin; enloplatin;
    enpromate; epipropidine; epirubicin hydrochloride; erbulozole; esorubicin hydrochloride;
    estramustine; estramustine phosphate sodium; etanidazole; etoposide; etoposide phosphate;
                                                         98

    etoprine; fadrozole hydrochloride; fazarabine; fenretinide; floxuridine; fludarabine phosphate;
    fluorouracil; flurocitabine; fosquidone; fostriecin sodium; gemcitabine; gemcitabine
    hydrochloride; hydroxyurea; idarubicin hydrochloride; ifosfamide; iimofosine; interleukin Il
    (including recombinant interleukin II, or rlL2), interferon alfa-2a; interferon alfa-2b; interferon
  5 alfa-n1; interferon alfa-n3; interferon beta-1 a; interferon gamma-1 b; iproplatin; irinotecan
    hydrochloride; lanreotide acetate; letrozole; leuprolide acetate; liarozole hydrochloride;
    lometrexol sodium; lomustine; losoxantrone hydrochloride; masoprocol; maytansine;
    mechlorethamine hydrochloride; megestrol acetate; melengestrol acetate; melphalan; menogaril;
    mercaptopurine; methotrexate; methotrexate sodium; metoprine; meturedepa; mitindomide;
 t0 mitocarcin; mitocromin; mitogillin; mitomalcin; mitomycin; mitosper; mitotane; mitoxantrone
    hydrochloride; mycophenolic acid; nocodazoie; nogalamycin; ormaplatin; oxisuran;
    pegaspargase; peliomycin; pentamustine; peplomycin sulfate; perfosfamide; pipobroman;
    piposulfan; piroxantrone hydrochloride; plicamycin; plomestane; porfimer sodium;
    porfiromycin; prednimustine; procarbazine hydrochloride; puromycin; puromycin
 [5 hydrochloride; pyrazofurin; riboprine; rogletimide; safingol; safingol hydrochloride; semustine;
    simtrazene; sparfosate sodium; sparsomycin; spirogermanium hydrochloride; spiromustine;
    spiroplatin; streptonigrin; streptozocin; sulofenur; talisomycin; tecogalan sodium; tegafur;
    teloxantrone hydrochloride; temoporfin; teniposide; teroxirone; testolactone; thiamiprine;
    thioguanine; thiotepa; tiazofurin; tirapazamine; toremifene citrate; trestolone acetate; triciribine
 !o phosphate; trimetrexate; trimetrexate glucuronate; triptorelin; tubulozole hydrochloride; uracil
    mustard; uredepa; vapreotide; verteporfin; vinblastine sulfate; vincristine sulfate; vindesine;
    vindesine sulfate; vinepidine sulfate; vinglycinate sulfate; vinleurosine sulfate; vinorelbine
    tartrate; vinrosidine sulfate; vinzolidine sulfate; vorozole; zeniplatin; zinostatin; zorubicin
    hydrochloride.
25  [00326]          Other anti-cancer agents that can be employed in combination with a Btk
    inhibitor compound include: 20-epi-1, 25 dihydroxyvitamin D3; 5-ethynyluracil; abiraterone;
    aclarubicin; acylfulvene; adecypenol; adozelesin; aldesleukin; ALL-TK antagonists; altretamine;
    ambamustine; amidox; amifostine; aminolevulinic acid; amrubicin; amsacrine; anagrelide;
    anastrozole; andrographolide; angiogenesis inhibitors; antagonist D; antagonist G; antarelix;
30  anti-dorsalizing morphogenetic protein-1; antiandrogen, prostatic carcinoma; antiestrogen;
    antineoplaston; antisense oligonucleotides; aphidicolin glycinate; apoptosis gene modulators;
    apoptosis regulators; apurinic acid; ara-CDP-DL-PTBA; arginine deaminase; asulacrine;
    atamestane; atrimustine; axinastatin 1; axinastatin 2; axinastatin 3; azasetron; azatoxin;
                                                          99

    azatyrosine; baccatin III derivatives; balanol; batimastat; BCR/ABL antagonists; benzochlorins;
    benzoylstaurosporine; beta lactam derivatives; beta-alethine; betaclamycin B; betulinic acid;
    bFGF inhibitor; bicalutamide; bisantrene; bisaziridinylspermine; bisnafide; bistratene A;
    bizelesin; breflate; bropirimine; budotitane; buthionine sulfoximine; calcipotriol; calphostin C;
  5 camptothecin derivatives; canarypox IL-2; capecitabine; carboxamide-amino-triazole;
    carboxyamidotriazole; CaRest M3; CARN 700; cartilage derived inhibitor; carzelesin; casein
    kinase inhibitors (ICOS); castanospermine; cecropin B; cetrorelix; chlorlns; chloroquinoxaline
    sulfonamide; cicaprost; cis-porphyrin; cladribine; clomifene analogues; clotrimazole;
    collismycin A; collismycin B; combretastatin A4; combretastatin analogue; conagenin;
 to crambescidin 816; crisnatol; cryptophycin 8; cryptophycin A derivatives; curacin A;
    cyclopentanthraquinones; cycloplatam; cypemycin; cytarabine ocfosfate; cytolytic factor;
    cytostatin; dacliximab; decitabine; dehydrodidemnin B; deslorelin; dexamethasone;
    dexifosfamide; dexrazoxane; dexverapamil; diaziquone; didemnin B; didox; diethylnorspermine;
    dihydro-5-azacytidine; 9- dioxamycin; diphenyl spiromustine; docosanol; dolasetron;
 [5 doxifluridine; droloxifene; dronabinol; duocarmycin SA; ebselen; ecomustine; edelfosine;
    edrecolomab; eflomithine; elemene; emitefur; epirubicin; epristeride; estramustine analogue;
    estrogen agonists; estrogen antagonists; etanidazole; etoposide phosphate; exemestane;
    fadrozole; fazarabine; fenretinide; filgrastim; finasteride; flavopiridol; flezelastine; fluasterone;
    fludarabine; fluorodaunorunicin hydrochloride; forfenimex; formestane; fostriecin; fotemustine;
 !o gadolinium texaphyrin; gallium nitrate; galocitabine; ganirelix; gelatinase inhibitors;
    gemcitabine; glutathione inhibitors; hepsulfam; heregulin; hexamethylene bisacetamide;
    hypericin; ibandronic acid; idarubicin; idoxifene; idramantone; ilmofosine; ilomastat;
    imidazoacridones; imiquimod; immunostimulant peptides; insulin-such as for example growth
    factor-i receptor inhibitor; interferon agonists; interferons; interleukins; iobenguane;
25  iododoxorubicin; ipomeanol, 4-; iroplact; irsogladine; isobengazole; isohomohalicondrin B;
    itasetron; jasplakinolide; kahalalide F; lamellarin-N triacetate; lanreotide; leinamycin;
    lenograstim; lentinan sulfate; leptolstatin; letrozole; leukemia inhibiting factor; leukocyte alpha
    interferon; leuprolide+estrogen+progesterone; leuprorelin; levamisole; liarozole; linear
    polyamine analogue; lipophilic disaccharide peptide; lipophilic platinum compounds;
30  lissoclinamide 7; lobaplatin; lombricine; lometrexol; lonidamine; losoxantrone; lovastatin;
    loxoribine; lurtotecan; lutetium texaphyrin; lysofylline; lytic peptides; maitansine; mannostatin
    A; marimastat; masoprocol; maspin; matrilysin inhibitors; matrix metalloproteinase inhibitors;
    menogaril; merbarone; meterelin; methioninase; metoclopramide; MIF inhibitor; mifepristone;
                                                          100

    miltefosine; mirimostim; mismatched double stranded RNA; mitoguazone; mitolactol;
    mitomycin analogues; mitonafide; mitotoxin fibroblast growth factor-saporin; mitoxantrone;
    mofarotene; molgramostim; monoclonal antibody, human chorionic gonadotrophin;
    monophosphoryl lipid A+myobacterium cell wall sk; mopidamol; multiple drug resistance gene
  5 inhibitor; multiple tumor suppressor 1 -based therapy; mustard anticancer agent; mycaperoxide
    B; mycobacterial cell wall extract; myriaporone; N-acetyldinaline; N-substituted benzamides;
    nafarelin; nagrestip; naloxone+pentazocine; napavin; naphterpin; nartograstim; nedaplatin;
    nemorubicin; neridronic acid; neutral endopeptidase; nilutamide; nisamycin; nitric oxide
    modulators; nitroxide antioxidant; nitrullyn; 06-benzylguanine; octreotide; okicenone;
 t0 oligonucleotides; onapristone; ondansetron; ondansetron; oracin; oral cytokine inducer;
    ormaplatin; osaterone; oxaliplatin; oxaunomycin; palauamine; palmitoylrhizoxin; pamidronic
    acid; panaxytriol; panomifene; parabactin; pazelliptine; pegaspargase; peldesine; pentosan
    polysulfate sodium; pentostatin; pentrozole; perflubron; perfosfamide; perillyl alcohol;
    phenazinomycin; phenylacetate; phosphatase inhibitors; picibanil; pilocarpine hydrochloride;
  5 pirarubicin; piritrexim; placetin A; placetin B; plasminogen activator inhibitor; platinum
    complex; platinum compounds; platinum-triamine complex; porfimer sodium; porfiromycin;
    prednisone; propyl bis-acridone; prostaglandin J2; proteasome inhibitors; protein A-based
    immune modulator; protein kinase C inhibitor; protein kinase C inhibitors, microalgal; protein
    tyrosine phosphatase inhibitors; purine nucleoside phosphorylase inhibitors; purpurins;
 !o pyrazoloacridine; pyridoxylated hemoglobin polyoxyethylerie conjugate; raf antagonists;
    raltitrexed; ramosetron; ras farnesyl protein transferase inhibitors; ras inhibitors; ras-GAP
    inhibitor; retelliptine demethylated; rhenium Re 186 etidronate; rhizoxin; ribozymes; RII
    retinamide; rogletimide; rohitukine; romurtide; roquinimex; rubiginone B 1; ruboxyl; safingol;
    saintopin; SarCNU; sarcophytol A; sargramostim; Sdi 1 mimetics; semustine; senescence
25  derived inhibitor 1; sense oligonucleotides; signal transduction inhibitors; signal transduction
    modulators; single chain antigen-binding protein; sizofiran; sobuzoxane; sodium borocaptate;
    sodium phenylacetate; solverol; somatomedin binding protein; sonermin; sparfosic acid;
    spicamycin D; spiromustine; splenopentin; spongistatin 1; squalamine; stem cell inhibitor; stem
    cell division inhibitors; stipiamide; stromelysin inhibitors; sulfinosine; superactive vasoactive
30  intestinal peptide antagonist; suradista; suramin; swainsonine; synthetic glycosaminoglycans;
    tallimustine; tamoxifen methiodide; tauromustine; tazarotene; tecogalan sodium; tegafur;
    tellurapyrylium; telomerase inhibitors; temoporfin; temozolomide; teniposide;
    tetrachlorodecaoxide; tetrazomine; thaliblastine; thiocoraline; thrombopoietin; thrombopoietin
                                                         101

    mimetic; thymalfasin; thymopoietin receptor agonist; thymotrinan; thyroid stimulating hormone;
    tin ethyl etiopurpurin; tirapazamine; titanocene bichloride; topsentin; toremifene; totipotent stem
    cell factor; translation inhibitors; tretinoin; triacetyluridine; triciribine; trimetrexate; triptorelin;
    tropisetron; turosteride; tyrosine kinase inhibitors; tyrphostins; UBC inhibitors; ubenimex;
  5 urogenital sinus-derived growth inhibitory factor; urokinase receptor antagonists; vapreotide;
    variolin B; vector system, erythrocyte gene therapy; velaresol; veramine; verdins; verteporfin;
    vinorelbine; vinxaltine; vitaxin; vorozole; zanoterone; zeniplatin; zilascorb; and zinostatin
    stimalamer.
    [003271          Yet other anticancer agents that can be employed in combination with a Btk
 t0 inhibitor compound include alkylating agents, antimetabolites, natural products, or hormones,
    e.g., nitrogen mustards (e.g., mechloroethamine, cyclophosphamide, chlorambucil, etc.), alkyl
    sulfonates (e.g., busulfan), nitrosoureas (e.g., carmustine, lomusitne, ete.), or triazenes
    (decarbazine, etc.). Examples of antimetabolites include but are not limited to folic acid analog
    (e.g., methotrexate), or pyrimidine analogs (e.g., Cytarabine), purine analogs (e.g.,
 [5 mercaptopurine, thioguanine, pentostatin).
    [00328]          Examples of alkylating agents that can be employed in combination a Btk
    inhibitor compound include, but are not limited to, nitrogen mustards (e.g., mechloroethamine,
    cyclophosphamide, chlorambucil, meiphalan, etc.), ethylenimine and methylmelamines (e.g.,
    hexamethlymelamine, thiotepa), alkyl sulfonates (e.g., busulfan), nitrosoureas (e.g., carmustine,
 !o lomusitne, semustine, streptozocin, etc.), or triazenes (decarbazine, ete.). Examples of
    antimetabolites include, but are not limited to folic acid analog (e.g., methotrexate), or
    pyrimidine analogs (e.g., fluorouracil, floxouridine, Cytarabine), purine analogs (e.g.,
    mercaptopurine, thioguanine, pentostatin.
    [00329]          Examples of anti-cancer agents which act by arresting cells in the G2-M phases
25  due to stabilized microtubules and which can be used in combination with a Btk inhibitor
    compound include without limitation the following marketed drugs and drugs in development:
    Erbulozole (also known as R-55104), Dolastatin 10 (also known as DLS-10 and NSC-376128),
    Mivobulin isethionate (also known as CI-980), Vincristine, NSC-639829, Discodermolide (also
    known as NVP-XX-A-296), ABT-751 (Abbott, also known as E-7010), Altorhyrtins (such as
30  Altorhyrtin A and Altorhyrtin C), Spongistatins (such as Spongistatin 1, Spongistatin 2,
    Spongistatin 3, Spongistatin 4, Spongistatin 5, Spongistatin 6, Spongistatin 7, Spongistatin 8,
    and Spongistatin 9), Cemadotin hydrochloride (also known as LU-103793 and NSC-D-669356),
    Epothilones (such as Epothilone A, Epothilone B, Epothilone C (also known as
                                                            102

    desoxyepothilone A or dEpoA), Epothilone D (also referred to as KOS-862, dEpoB, and
    desoxyepothilone B ), Epothilone E, Epothilone F, Epothilone B N-oxide, Epothilone A N
    oxide, 16-aza-epothilone B, 21 -aminoepothilone B (also known as BMS-310705), 21
    hydroxyepothilone D (also known as Desoxyepothilone F and dEpoF), 26-fluoroepothilone),
  5 Auristatin PE (also known as NSC-654663), Soblidotin (also known as TZT-1027), LS-4559-P
    (Pharmacia, also known as LS-4577), LS-4578 (Pharmacia, also known as LS-477-P), LS-4477
    (Pharmacia), LS-4559 (Pharmacia), RPR-1 12378 (Aventis), Vincristine sulfate, DZ-3358
    (Daiichi), FR-182877 (Fujisawa, also known as WS-9885B), GS-164 (Takeda), GS-198
    (Takeda), KAR-2 (Hungarian Academy of Sciences), BSF-223651 (BASF, also known as ILX
 to 651 and LU-223651 ), SAH-49960 (Lilly/Novartis), SDZ-268970 (Lilly/Novartis), AM-97
    (Armad/Kyowa Hakko), AM-132 (Armad), AM-138 (Armad/Kyowa Hakko), IDN-5005
    (Indena), Cryptophycin 52 (also known as LY-355703), AC-7739 (Ajinomoto, also known as
    AVE-8063A and CS-39.HCI), AC-7700 (Ajinomoto, also known as AVE-8062, AVE-8062A,
    CS-39-L-Ser.HCI, and RPR-258062A), Vitilevuamide, Tubulysin A, Canadensol, Centaureidin
 [5 (also known as NSC-106969), T-138067 (Tularik, also known as T-67, TL-138067 and TI
    13 8067), COBRA-I (Parker Hughes Institute, also known as DDE-261 and WHI-26 1), H10
    (Kansas State University), H16 (Kansas State University), Oncocidin Al (also known as BTO
    956 and DIME), DDE-313 (Parker Hughes Institute), Fijianolide B, Laulimalide, SPA-2 (Parker
    Hughes Institute), SPA-I (Parker Hughes Institute, also known as SPIKET-P), 3-IAABU
 !0 (Cytoskeleton/Mt. Sinai School of Medicine, also known as MF-569), Narcosine (also known as
    NSC-5366), Nascapine, D-24851 (Asta Medica), A-105972 (Abbott), Hemiasterlin, 3-BAABU
    (Cytoskeleton/Mt. Sinai School of Medicine, also known as MF-191), TMPN (Arizona State
    University), Vanadocene acetylacetonate, T-138026 (Tularik), Monsatrol, lnanocine (also
    known as NSC-698666), 3-1AABE (Cytoskeleton/Mt. Sinai School of Medicine), A-204197
25  (Abbott), T-607 (Tuiarik, also known as T-900607), RPR- 115781 (Aventis), Eleutherobins
    (such as Desmethyleleutherobin, Desaetyleleutherobin, lsoeleutherobin A, and Z-Eleutherobin),
    Caribaeoside, Caribaeolin, Halichondrin B, D-64131 (Asta Medica), D-68144 (Asta Medica),
    Diazonamide A, A-293620 (Abbott), NPI-2350 (Nereus), Taccalonolide A, TUB-245 (Aventis),
    A-259754 (Abbott), Diozostatin, (-)-Phenylahistin (also known as NSCL-96F037), D-68838
30  (Asta Medica), D-68836 (Asta Medica), Myoseverin B, D-43411 (Zentaris, also known as D
    81862), A-289099 (Abbott), A-318315 (Abbott), HTI-286 (also known as SPA- 110,
    trifluoroacetate salt) (Wyeth), D-82317 (Zentaris), D-82318 (Zentaris), SC-12983 (NCI),
                                                       103

    Resverastatin phosphate sodium, BPR-OY-007 (National Health Research Institutes), and SSR
    250411 (Sanofi).
    Biomarkers
    [00330]        Disclosed herein, in certain embodiments, is a method for treating a
  5 hematological malignancy in an individual in need thereof, comprising: (a) administering to the
    individual an amount of an irreversible Btk inhibitor sufficient to mobilize a plurality of cells
    from the malignancy; and (b) analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells. In some embodiments,
    the amount of the irreversible Btk inhibitor is sufficient to induce lymphocytosis of a plurality of
    cells from the malignancy. In some embodiments, analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells
 t0 comprises preparing a biomarker profile for a population of cells isolated from the plurality of
    cells. In some embodiments, the biomarker expression profile is used to diagnose, determine a
    prognosis, or create a predictive profile of a hematological malignancy. In some embodiments,
    the biomarker profile indicates the expression of a biomarker, the expression level of a
    biomarker, mutations in a biomarker, or the presence of a biomarker. In some embodiments, the
 [5 biomarker is any cytogenetic, cell surface molecular or protein or RNA expression marker. In
    some embodiments, the biomarker is: ZAP70; t(14,18);         -2 microglobulin; p53 mutational
    status; ATM mutational status; del(17)p; del(11)q; del(6)q; CD5; CD1Ic; CD19; CD20; CD22;
    CD25; CD38; CD103; CD138; secreted, surface or cytoplasmic immunoglobulin expression; VH
    mutational status; or a combination thereof. In some embodiments, the method further comprises
 !o providing a second cancer treatment regimen based on the biomarker profile. In some
    embodiments, the method further comprises not administering based on the biomarker profile. In
    some embodiments, the method further comprises predicting the efficacy of a treatment regimen
    based on the biomarker profile.
    [00331]        In certain embodiments, the methods comprise diagnosing, determining a
25  prognosis, or creating a predictive profile of a hematological maligancy maligancy based upon
    the expression or presence of certain biomarkers. In other embodiments, the methods further
    comprise stratefying patient populations based upon the expression or presence of certain
    biomarkers in the affected lymphocytes. In still other embodiments, the methods further
    comprise determining a therapeutic regimen for the subject based upon the expression or
30  presence of certain biomarkers in the affected lymphocytes. In yet other embodiments, the
    methods further comprise predicting a response to therapy in a subject based upon the
    expression or presence of certain biomarkers in the affected lymphocytes.
                                                         104

    [003321          In certain aspects, provided herein are methods of diagnosing, determining a
    prognosis, or creating a predictive profile of a hematological maligancy in a subject comprising:
    (a) administering a Btk inhibitor to the subject sufficient to result in an increase or appearance in
    the blood of a subpopulation of lymphocytes; and (b) determining the expression or presence of
  5 one or more biomarkers from one or more subpopulation of lymphocytes; wherein the
    expression or presence of one or more biomarkers is used to diagnose the hematological
    maligancy, determine the prognosis of the hematological maligancy, or create a predictive
    profile of the hematological maligancy. In one embodiment, the increase or appearance in the
    blood of a subpopulation of lymphocytes is determined by immunophenotyping. In another
 to embodiment, the increase or appearance in the blood of a subpopulation of lymphocytes is
    determined by fluorescent activated cell sorting (FACS).
    [00333]          In other aspects, provided herein are methods of stratifying a patient population
    having a hematological maligancy comprising: (a) administering a Btk inhibitor to the subject
    sufficient to result in an increase or appearance in the blood of a subpopulation of lymphocytes;
 [5 and (b) determining the expression or presence of one or more biomarkers from one or more
    subpopulation of lymphocytes; wherein the expression or presence of one or more biomarkers is
    used to stratify patients for treatment of the hematological maligancy. In one embodiment, the
    increase or appearance in the blood of a subpopulation of lymphocytes is determined by
    immunophenotyping. In another embodiment, the increase or appearance in the blood of a
 !o subpopulation of lymphocytes is determined by fluorescent activated cell sorting (FACS).
    [00334]          In still other aspects, provided herein are methods of determining a therapeutic
    regimen in a subject having a hematological maligancy comprising: (a) administering a Btk
    inhibitor to the subject sufficient to result in an increase or appearance in the blood of a
    subpopulation of lymphocytes; and (b) determining the expression or presence of one or more
25  biomarkers from one or more subpopulation of lymphocytes; wherein the expression or presence
    of one or more biomarkers is used to determine the therapeutic regimen for the treatment of the
    hematological maligancy. In one embodiment, the increase or appearance in the blood of a
    subpopulation of lymphocytes is determined by immunophenotyping. In another embodiment,
    the increase or appearance in the blood of a subpopulation of lymphocytes is determined by
30  fluorescent activated cell sorting (FACS).
    [003351          In yet other aspects, provided herein are methods of predicting a response to
    therapy in a subject having a hematological maligancy comprising: (a) administering a Btk
    inhibitor to the subject sufficient to result in an increase or appearance in the blood of a
                                                           105

    subpopulation of lymphocytes; and (b) determining the expression or presence of one or more
    biomarkers from one or more subpopulation of lymphocytes; wherein the expression or presence
    of one or more biomarkers is used to predict the subject's response to therapy for the
    hematological maligancy. In one embodiment, the increase or appearance in the blood of a
  5 subpopulation of lymphocytes is determined by immunophenotyping. In another embodiment,
    the increase or appearance in the blood of a subpopulation of lymphocytes is determined by
    fluorescent activated cell sorting (FACS).
    [00336]          In certain aspects, provided herein are methods of diagnosing, determining a
    prognosis, or creating a predictive profile of a hematological maligancy in a subject comprising
 t0 determining the expression or presence of one or more biomarkers from one or more
    subpopulation of lymphocytes in a subject that has received a dose of a Btk inhibitor wherein the
    expression or presence of one or more biomarkers is used to diagnose the hematological
    maligancy, determine the prognosis of the hematological maligancy, or create a predictive
    profile of the hematological maligancy. In one embodiment, the dose of Btk inhibitor is
 [5 sufficient to result in an increase or appearance in the blood of a subpopulation of lymphocytes
    defined by immunophenotyping. In another embodiment, the determining the expression or
    presence of one or more biomarkers from one or more subpopulation of lymphocytes further
    comprises isolating, detecting or measuring one or more type of lymphocyte. In still another
    embodiment, the Btk inhibitor is a reversible or irreversible inhibitor.
 !o [00337]          In other aspects, provided herein are methods of stratifying a patient population
    having a hematological maligancy comprising determining the expression or presence of one or
    more biomarkers from one or more subpopulation of lymphocytes in a subject that has received
    a dose of a Btk inhibitor wherein the expression or presence of one or more biomarkers is used
    to stratify patients for treatment of the hematological maligancy. In one embodiment, the dose of
25  Btk inhibitor is sufficient to result in an increase or appearance in the blood of a subpopulation
    of lymphocytes defined by immunophenotyping. In another embodiment, the determining the
    expression or presence of one or more biomarkers from one or more subpopulation of
    lymphocytes further comprises isolating, detecting or measuring one or more type of
    lymphocyte. In still another embodiment, the Btk inhibitor is a reversible or irreversible
30  inhibitor.
    [00338]          In still other aspects, provided herein are methods of determining the therapeutic
    regimen in a subject having a hematological maligancy comprising determining the expression
    or presence of one or more biomarkers from one or more subpopulation of lymphocytes in a
                                                          106

    subject that has received a dose of a Btk inhibitor wherein the expression or presence of one or
    more biomarkers is used to determine the therapeutic regimen for the treatment of the
    hematological maligancy. In one embodiment, the dose of Btk inhibitor is sufficient to result in
    an increase or appearance in the blood of a subpopulation of lymphocytes defined by
  5 immunophenotyping. In another embodiment, the determining the expression or presence of one
    or more biomarkers from one or more subpopulation of lymphocytes further comprises isolating,
    detecting or measuring one or more type of lymphocyte. In still another embodiment, the Btk
    inhibitor is a reversible or irreversible inhibitor.
    [003391          In yet other aspects, provided herein are methods of predicting a response to
 t0 therapy in a subject having a hematological maligancy comprising determining the expression or
    presence of one or more biomarkers from one or more circulating lymphocytes in a subject that
    has received a dose of a Btk inhibitor wherein the expression or presence of one or more
    biomarkers is used to predict the subject's response to therapy for the hematological maligancy.
    In one embodiment, the dose of Btk inhibitor is sufficient to result in an increase or appearance
 [5 in the blood of a subpopulation of lymphocytes defined by immunophenotyping. In another
    embodiment, the determining the expression or presence of one or more biomarkers from one or
    more subpopulation of lymphocytes further comprises isolating, detecting or measuring one or
    more type of lymphocyte. In still another embodiment, the Btk inhibitor is a reversible or
    irreversible inhibitor.
 !o [00340]          As contemplated herein, any biomarker related to hematological maligancies are
    in some embodiments utilized in the present methods. These biomarkers include any biological
    molecule (found either in blood, other body fluids, or tissues) or any chromosomal abnormality
    that is a sign of a hematological maligancy. In certain embodiments, the biomarkers include, but
    are not limited to, TdT, CD5, CD1 Ic, CD19, CD20, CD22, CD79a, CD15, CD30, CD38,
25  CD138, CD103, CD25, ZAP-70, p53 mutational status, ATM mutational status, mutational
    status of IgVH, chromosome 17 deletions (del 17p), chromosome 6 deletions (del 6q),
    chromosome 7 deletions (del 7q), chromosome 11 deletions (del 11 q), trisomy 12, chromosome
    13 deletions (del 13 q), t( 11:14) chromosomal translocation, t(14:18) chromosomal
    translocation, CD10, CD23, beta-2 microglobulin, bcl-2 expression, CD9, presence of
30  Helicobacterpylori,CD154/CD40, Akt, NF-KB,WNT, Mtor, ERK, MAPK, and Src tyrosine
    kinase expression. In certain embodiments, the biomarkers include ZAP-70, CD5, t(14;18),
    CD38, -2 microglobulin, p53 mutational status, ATM mutational status, chromosome 17p
    deletion, chromosome 11 q deletion, surface or cytoplasmic immunoglobulin, CD 138, CD25, 6q
                                                         107

    deletion, CD 19, CD20, CD22, CD1 Ic, CD 103, chromosome 7q deletion, VH mutational status,
    or a combination thereof.
    [00341]          In certain embodiments, subpopulations of patients having a hematological
    maligancy cancer or pre- that would benefit from a known treatment regimen are identified by
  5 screening candidate subjects for one or more clinically useful biomarkers known in the art. Any
    clinically useful prognostic marker known to those of skill in the art can be used. In some
    embodiments, the subpopulation includes patients having chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL),
    and the clinically useful prognostic markers of particular interest include, but are not limited to,
    ZAP-70, CD38, .beta.2 microglobulin, and cytogenetic markers, for example, p53 mutational
 t0 status, ATM mutational status, chromosome deletions, such as the chromosome 17p deletion and
    the chromosome 11 q deletion, all of which are clinically useful prognostic markers for this
    disease.
    [00342]          ZAP-70 is a tyrosine kinase that associates with the zeta subunit of the T cell
    antigen receptor (TCR) and plays a pivotal role in T cell activation and development (Chan et al.
 [5 (1992) Cell 71:649-662). ZAP-70 undergoes tyrosine phosphorylation and is essential in
    mediating signal transduction following TCR stimulation. Overexpression or constitutive
    activation of tyrosine kinases has been demonstrated to be involved in a number of malignancies
    including leukemias and several types of solid tumors. For example, increased ZAP-70 RNA
    expression levels are a prognostic marker of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) (Rosenwald
  0 et al. (2001) J. Exp. Med. 194:1639-1647). ZAP-70 is expressed in T-cells and natural killer
    cells, but is not known to be expressed in normal B-cells. However, ZAP-70 is expressed at high
    levels in the B-cells of chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL)
    patients, and more particularly in the subset of CLL patients who tend to have the more
    aggressive clinical course that is found in CLL/SLL patients with unmutated Ig genes (Wiestner
25  et al. (2003) Blood 101: 4944-495 1; U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 20030203416).
    Because of the correlation between ZAP-70 expression levels and Ig gene mutation status, ZAP
    70 can be used as a prognostic indicator to identify those patients likely to have severe disease
    (high ZAP-70, unmutated Ig genes), and who are therefore candidates for aggressive therapy.
    [00343]          CD38 is a signal transduction molecule as well as an ectoenzyme catalyzing the
30  synthesis and degradation of cyclic ADP ribose (cADPR). CD38 expression is present at high
    levels in bone marrow precursor B cells, is down-regulated in resting normal B cells, and then is
    re-expressed in terminally differentiated plasma cells (Campana et al. (2000) Chem. Immunol.
    75:169-188). CD38 is a reliable prognostic indicator in B-CLL, with the expression of CD38
                                                        108

    generally indicating a less favorable outcome (D'Arena et al. (2001) Leuk. Lymphoma 42:109;
    Del Poeta et al. (2001) Blood 98:2633; Durig et al. (2002) Leukemia 16:30; Ibrahim et al. (2001)
    Blood 98:181; Deaglio et al. (2003) Blood 102:2146-2155). The unfavorable clinical indications
    that CD38 expression has been associated with include an advanced stage of disease, poor
  5 responsiveness to chemotherapy, a shorter time before initial treatment is required, and a shorter
    survival time (Deaglio et al. (2003) Blood 102:2146-2155). Initially, a strong correlation
    between CD38 expression and IgV gene mutation was observed, with patients having unmutated
    V genes displaying higher percentages of CD38.sup.+ B-CLL cells than those with mutated V
    genes (Damle et al. (1999) Blood 94:1840-1847). However, subsequent studies have indicated
 to that CD38 expression does not always correlate with the rearrangement of the IgV genes
    (Hamblin et al. (2002) Blood 99:1023; Thunberg et al. (2001) Blood 97:1892).
    [00344]         p53 is a nuclear phosphoprotein that acts as a tumor suppressor. Wild-type p53 is
    involved in regulating cell growth and division. p53 binds to DNA, stimulating the production of
    a protein (p21) that interacts with a cell division-stimulating protein (cdk2). When p21 is bound
 [5 to cdk2, the cell is blocked from entering the next stage of cell division. Mutant p53 is incapable
    of binding DNA effectively, thus preventing p21 from acting as the stop signal for cell division,
    resulting in uncontrolled cell division, and tumor formation. p53 also regulates the induction of
    programmed cell death (apoptosis) in response to DNA damage, cell stress or the aberrant
    expression of some oncogenes. Expression of wild type p53 in some cancer cell lines has been
 !o shown to restore growth suppression control (Casey et al. (1991) Oncogene 6:1791-1797;
    Takahashi et al. (1992) Cancer Res. 52:734-736). Mutations in p53 are found in most tumor
    types, including tumors of the colon, breast, lung, ovary, bladder, and many other organs. p53
    mutations have been found to be associated with Burkitt's lymphoma, L3-type B-cell acute
    lymphoblastic leukemia, B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (Gaidano et al. (1991) Proc. Natl.
25  Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 88:5413-5417). p53 abnormalities have also been found associated with B
    cell prolymphocytic leukemia (Lens et al. (1997) Blood 89:2015-2023). The gene for p53 is
    located on the short arm of chromosome 17 at 17pl3.105-pl2.
    [003451         B-2-microglobulin is an extracellular protein that is noncovalently associated
    with the .alpha. chain of the class I major histocompatibility complex (MHC). It is detectable in
30  the serum, and is an adverse prognostic indicator in CLL (Keating et al. (1998) Blood 86:606a)
    and Hodgkin's lymphoma (Chronowski et al. (2002) Cancer 95:2534-2538). It is clinically used
    for lymphoproliferative diseases including leukemia, lymphoma, and multiple myeloma, where
    serum -2-microglobulin levels are related to tumor cell load, prognosis, and disease activity
                                                          109

    (Bataille et al. (1983) Br. J. Haematol. 55:439-447; Aviles et al. (1992) Rev. Invest. Clin.
    44:215-220). P2 microglobulin is also useful in staging myeloma patients (Pasqualetti et al.
    (1991) Eur. J. Cancer 27:1123-1126).
    [00346]          Cytogenetic aberrations may also be used as markers to create a predictive profile
  5 of a hematological maligancy. For example, chromosome abnormalities are found in a large
    percentage of CLL patients and are helpful in predicting the course of CLL. For example, a 17p
    deletion is indicative of aggressive disease progression. In addition, CLL patients with a
    chromosome 17p deletion or mutation in p53, or both, are known to respond poorly to
    chemotherapeutics and rituximab. Allelic loss on chromosome 17p may be also be a useful
 to prognostic marker in colorectal cancer, where patients with a 17p deletion are associated with an
    increased tendency of disease dissemination in colorectal cancer (Khine et al. (1994) Cancer
    73:28-35).
    [003471          Deletions of the long arm of chromosome 11 (1 q) are one of the most frequent
    structural chromosome aberrations in various types of lymphoproliferative disorders. CLL
 [5 patients with chromosome 11 q deletion and possibly ATM mutations have a poor survival
    compared to patients without either this defect or the 17p deletion. Furthermore, an 11 q deletion
    is often accompanied by extensive lymph node involvement (Dohner et al. (1997) Blood
    89:2516-2522). This deletion also identifies patients who are at high risk for disease persistence
    after high-dose therapy and autologous transplantation.
 !o [00348]          The ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATA4) gene is a tumor suppressor gene that is
    involved in cell cycle arrest, apoptosis, and repair of DNA double-strand breaks. It is found on
    chromosome 11. ATMmutations are associated with increased risk for breast cancer among
    women with a family history of breast cancer (Chenevix-Trench et al. (2002) J. Natl. Cancer
    Inst. 94:205-215; Thorstenson et al. (2003) Cancer Res. 63:3325-3333) and/or early-onset breast
25  cancers (Izatt et al. (1999) Genes Chromosomes Cancer 26:286-294; Teraoka et al. (2001)
    Cancer 92:479-487). There is also a high frequency of association of rhabdomyosarcoma with
    ATM gene mutation/deletion (Zhang et al. (2003) Cancer Biol. Ther. 1:87-91).
    [00349]          Methods for detecting chromosomal abnormalities in a patient are well known in
    the art (see, for example, Cuneo et al. (1999) Blood 93:1372-1380; Dohner et al. (1997) Blood
30  89:2516-2522). Methods to measure mutated proteins, such as ATM, are well known in the art
    (see, for example, Butch et al. (2004) Clin. Chem. 50: 2302-2308).
    [003501          Thus, the biomarkers that are evaluated in the methods described herein include
    the cell survival and apoptotic proteins described supra, and proteins involved in hematological
                                                         110

    maligancy-related signaling pathways. Determining the expression or presence can be at the
    protein or nucleic acid level. Thus, the biomarkers include these proteins and the genes encoding
    these proteins. Where detection is at the protein level, the biomarker protein comprises the full
    length polypeptide or any detectable fragment thereof, and can include variants of these protein
  5 sequences. Similarly, where detection is at the nucleotide level, the biomarker nucleic acid
    includes DNA comprising the full-length coding sequence, a fragment of the full-length coding
    sequence, variants of these sequences, for example naturally occurring variants or splice
    variants, or the complement of such a sequence. Biomarker nucleic acids also include RNA, for
    example, mRNA, comprising the full-length sequence encoding the biomarker protein of
 t0 interest, a fragment of the full-length RNA sequence of interest, or variants of these sequences.
    Biomarker proteins and biomarker nucleic acids also include variants of these sequences. By
    "fragment" is intended a portion of the polynucleotide or a portion of the amino acid sequence
    and hence protein encoded thereby. Polynucleotides that are fragments of a biomarker
    nucleotide sequence generally comprise at least 10, 15, 20, 50, 75, 100, 150, 200, 250, 300, 350,
 [5 400, 450, 500, 550, 600, 650, 700, 800, 900, 1,000, 1,100, 1,200, 1,300, or 1,400 contiguous
    nucleotides, or up to the number of nucleotides present in a full-length biomarker polynucleotide
    disclosed herein. A fragment of a biomarker polynucleotide will generally encode at least 15, 25,
    30, 50, 100, 150, 200, or 250 contiguous amino acids, or up to the total number of amino acids
    present in a full-length biomarker protein of the invention. "Variant" is intended to mean
 !o substantially similar sequences. Generally, variants of a particular biomarker of the invention
    will have at least about 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 7 0%, 7 5%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 91%,
    92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99% or more sequence identity to that biomarker as
    determined by sequence alignment programs known in the art.
    [003511         As provided above, any method known in the art can be used in the methods for
25  determining the expresion or presence of biomarker described herein. Circulating levels of
    biomarkers in a blood sample obtained from a candidate subject, can be measured, for example,
    by ELISA, radioimmunoassay (RIA), electrochemiluminescence (ECL), Western blot,
    multiplexing technologies, or other similar methods. Cell surface expression of biomarkers can
    be measured, for example, by flow cytometry, immunohistochemistry, Western Blot,
30  immunoprecipitation, magnetic bead selection, and quantification of cells expressing either of
    these cell surface markers. Biomarker RNA expression levels could be measured by RT-PCR,
    Qt-PCR, microarray, Northern blot, or other similar technologies.
                                                        111

    [003521          As previously noted, determining the expression or presence of the biomarker of
    interest at the protein or nucleotide level can be accomplished using any detection method
    known to those of skill in the art. By "detecting expression" or "detecting the level of' is
    intended determining the expression level or presence of a biomarker protein or gene in the
  5 biological sample. Thus, "detecting expression" encompasses instances where a biomarker is
    determined not to be expressed, not to be detectably expressed, expressed at a low level,
    expressed at a normal level, or overexpressed.
    [00353]          In certain aspects of the method provided herein, the one or more subpopulation
    of lymphocytes are isolated, detected or measured. In certain embodiments, the one or more
 t0 subpopulation of lymphocytes are isolated, detected or measured using immunophenotyping
    techniques. In other embodiments, the one or more subpopulation of lymphocytes are isolated,
    detected or measured using fluorescence activated cell sorting (FACS) techniques.
    [00354]          In certain embodiments of the methods provided herein, the one or more
    biomarkers comprises ZAP-70, CD5, t(14;18), CD38, 3-2 microglobulin, p53 mutational status,
 [5 ATM mutational status, chromosome 17p deletion, chromosome 11 q deletion, surface or
    cytoplasmic immunoglobulin, CD 138, CD25, 6q deletion, CD 19, CD20, CD22, CD1 Ic, CD
    103, chromosome 7q deletion, VH mutational status, or a combination thereof.
    [003551          In certain aspects, the methods described herein, the determining step requires
    determining the expression or presence of a combination of biomarkers. In certain embodiment,
 !o the combination of biomarkers is CD19 and CD5 or CD20 and CD5.
    [00356]          In certain aspects, the expresssion or presence of these various biomarkers and
    any clinically useful prognostic markers in a biological sample can be detected at the protein or
    nucleic acid level, using, for example, immunohistochemistry techniques or nucleic acid-based
    techniques such as in situ hybridization and RT-PCR. In one embodiments, the expression or
25  presence of one or more biomarkers is carried out by a means for nucleic acid amplification, a
    means for nucleic acid sequencing, a means utilizing a nucleic acid microarray (DNA and
    RNA), or a means for in situ hybridization using specifically labeled probes.
    [003571          In other embodiments, the determining the expression or presence of one or more
    biomarkers is carried out through gel electrophoresis. In one embodiment, the determination is
30  carried out through transfer to a membrane and hybridization with a specific probe.
    [00358]          In other embodiments, the determining the expression or presence of one or more
    biomarkers carried out by a diagnostic imaging technique.
                                                          112

    [003591           In still other embodiments, the determining the expression or presence of one or
    more biomarkers carried out by a detectable solid substrate. In one embodiment, the detectable
    solid substrate is paramagnetic nanoparticles functionalized with antibodies.
    [003601           In another aspect, provided herein are methods for detecting or measuring
  5 residual lymphoma following a course of treatment in order to guide continuing or discontinuing
    treatment or changing from one therapeutic regimen to another comprising determining the
    expression or presence of one or more biomarkers from one or more subpopulation of
    lymphocytes in a subject wherein the course of treatment is treatment with a Btk inhibitor.
    [00361]           Methods for detecting expression of the biomarkers described herein, and
 t0 optionally cytokine markers, within the test and control biological samples comprise any
    methods that determine the quantity or the presence of these markers either at the nucleic acid or
    protein level. Such methods are well known in the art and include but are not limited to western
    blots, northern blots, ELISA, immunoprecipitation, immunofluorescence, flow cytometry,
    immunohistochemistry, nucleic acid hybridization techniques, nucleic acid reverse transcription
 [5 methods, and nucleic acid amplification methods. In particular embodiments, expression of a
    biomarker is detected on a protein level using, for example, antibodies that are directed against
    specific biomarker proteins. These antibodies can be used in various methods such as Western
    blot, ELISA, multiplexing technologies, immunoprecipitation, or immunohistochemistry
    techniques. In some embodiments, detection of cytokine markers is accomplished by
 !0 electrochemiluminescence (ECL).
    [00362]           Any means for specifically identifying and quantifying a biomarker (for example,
    biomarker, a biomarker of cell survival or proliferation, a biomarker of apoptosis, a biomarker of
    a Btk-mediated signaling pathway) in the biological sample of a candidate subject is
    contemplated. Thus, in some embodiments, expression level of a biomarker protein of interest in
25  a biological sample is detected by means of a binding protein capable of interacting specifically
    with that biomarker protein or a biologically active variant thereof. Preferably, labeled
    antibodies, binding portions thereof, or other binding partners may be used. The word "label"
    when used herein refers to a detectable compound or composition that is conjugated directly or
    indirectly to the antibody so as to generate a "labeled" antibody. The label may be detectable by
30  itself (e.g., radioisotope labels or fluorescent labels) or, in the case of an enzymatic label, may
    catalyze chemical alteration of a substrate compound or composition that is detectable.
    [00363]           The antibodies for detection of a biomarker protein may be monoclonal or
    polyclonal in origin, or may be synthetically or recombinantly produced. The amount of
                                                          113

    complexed protein, for example, the amount of biomarker protein associated with the binding
    protein, for example, an antibody that specifically binds to the biomarker protein, is determined
    using standard protein detection methodologies known to those of skill in the art. A detailed
    review of immunological assay design, theory and protocols can be found in numerous texts in
  5 the art (see, for example, Ausubel et al., eds. (1995) Current Protocols in Molecular Biology)
    (Greene Publishing and Wiley-Interscience, NY)); Coligan et al., eds. (1994) Current Protocols
    in Immunology (John Wiley & Sons, Inc., New York, N.Y.).
    [00364]          The choice of marker used to label the antibodies will vary depending upon the
    application. However, the choice of the marker is readily determinable to one skilled in the art.
 to These labeled antibodies may be used in immunoassays as well as in histological applications to
    detect the presence of any biomarker or protein of interest. The labeled antibodies may be
    polyclonal or monoclonal. Further, the antibodies for use in detecting a protein of interest may
    be labeled with a radioactive atom, an enzyme, a chromophoric or fluorescent moiety, or a
    colorimetric tag as described elsewhere herein. The choice of tagging label also will depend on
 [5 the detection limitations desired. Enzyme assays (ELISAs) typically allow detection of a colored
    product formed by interaction of the enzyme-tagged complex with an enzyme substrate.
    Radionuclides that can serve as detectable labels include, for example, 1-13 1, 1-123, 1-125, Y-90,
    Re-188, Re-186, At-21 1, Cu-67, Bi-212, and Pd-109. Examples of enzymes that can serve as
    detectable labels include, but are not limited to, horseradish peroxidase, alkaline phosphatase,
 !o beta-galactosidase, and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase. Chromophoric moieties include,
    but are not limited to, fluorescein and rhodamine. The antibodies may be conjugated to these
    labels by methods known in the art. For example, enzymes and chromophoric molecules may be
    conjugated to the antibodies by means of coupling agents, such as dialdehydes, carbodiimides,
    dimaleimides, and the like. Alternatively, conjugation may occur through a ligand-receptor pair.
25  Examples of suitable ligand-receptor pairs are biotin-avidin or biotin-streptavidin, and antibody
    antigen.
    [003651          In certain embodiments, expression or presence of one or more biomarkers or
    other proteins of interest within a biological sample, for example, a sample of bodily fluid, is
    determined by radioimmunoassays or enzyme-linked immunoassays (ELISAs), competitive
30  binding enzyme-linked immunoassays, dot blot (see, for example, Promega Protocols and
    Applications Guide (2 nd ed.; Promega Corporation (1991), Western blot (see, for example,
    Sambrook et al. (1989) Molecular Cloning, A Laboratory Manual, Vol. 3, Chapter 18 (Cold
    Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Plainview, N.Y.), chromatography, preferably high
                                                         114

    performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), or other assays known in the art. Thus, the
    detection assays can involve steps such as, but not limited to, immunoblotting,
    immunodiffusion, immunoelectrophoresis, or immunoprecipitation.
    [003661          In certain other embodiments, the methods of the invention are useful for
  5 identifying and treating hematological maligancys, including those listed above, that are
    refractory to (i.e., resistant to, or have become resistant to) first-line oncotherapeutic treatments.
    [003671          The expression or presence of one or more of the biomarkers described herein
    may also be determined at the nucleic acid level. Nucleic acid-based techniques for assessing
    expression are well known in the art and include, for example, determining the level of
 t0 biomarker mRNA in a biological sample. Many expression detection methods use isolated RNA.
    Any RNA isolation technique that does not select against the isolation of mRNA can be utilized
    for the purification of RNA (see, e.g., Ausubel et al., ed. (1987-1999) Current Protocols in
    Molecular Biology (John Wiley & Sons, New York). Additionally, large numbers of tissue
    samples can readily be processed using techniques well known to those of skill in the art, such
 [5 as, for example, the single-step RNA isolation process disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4,843,155.
    [00368]          Thus, in some embodiments, the detection of a biomarker or other protein of
    interest is assayed at the nucleic acid level using nucleic acid probes. The term "nucleic acid
    probe" refers to any molecule that is capable of selectively binding to a specifically intended
    target nucleic acid molecule, for example, a nucleotide transcript. Probes can be synthesized by
 !o one of skill in the art, or derived from appropriate biological preparations. Probes may be
    specifically designed to be labeled, for example, with a radioactive label, a fluorescent label, an
    enzyme, a chemiluminescent tag, a colorimetric tag, or other labels or tags that are discussed
    above or that are known in the art. Examples of molecules that can be utilized as probes include,
    but are not limited to, RNA and DNA.
25  [00369]          For example, isolated mRNA can be used in hybridization or amplification assays
    that include, but are not limited to, Southern or Northern analyses, polymerase chain reaction
    analyses and probe arrays. One method for the detection of mRNA levels involves contacting
    the isolated mRNA with a nucleic acid molecule (probe) that can hybridize to the mRNA
    encoded by the gene being detected. The nucleic acid probe can be, for example, a full-length
30  cDNA, or a portion thereof, such as an oligonucleotide of at least 7, 15, 30, 50, 100, 250 or 500
    nucleotides in length and sufficient to specifically hybridize under stringent conditions to an
    mRNA or genomic DNA encoding a biomarker, biomarker described herein above.
                                                          115

    Hybridization of an mRNA with the probe indicates that the biomarker or other target protein of
    interest is being expressed.
    [003701          In one embodiment, the mRNA is immobilized on a solid surface and contacted
    with a probe, for example by running the isolated mRNA on an agarose gel and transferring the
  5 mRNA from the gel to a membrane, such as nitrocellulose. In an alternative embodiment, the
    probe(s) are immobilized on a solid surface and the mRNA is contacted with the probe(s), for
    example, in a gene chip array. A skilled artisan can readily adapt known mRNA detection
    methods for use in detecting the level of mRNA encoding the biomarkers or other proteins of
    interest.
 to [00371]          An alternative method for determining the level of a mRNA of interest in a
    sample involves the process of nucleic acid amplification, e.g., by RT-PCR (see, for example,
    U.S. Pat. No. 4,683,202), ligase chain reaction (Barany (1991) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA
    88:189-193), self-sustained sequence replication (Guatelli et al. (1990) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.
    USA 87:1874-1878), transcriptional amplification system (Kwoh et al. (1989) Proc. Natl. Acad.
 [5 Sci. USA 86:1173-1177), Q-Beta Replicase (Lizardi et al. (1988) Bio/Technology 6:1197),
    rolling circle replication (U.S. Pat. No. 5,854,033) or any other nucleic acid amplification
    method, followed by the detection of the amplified molecules using techniques well known to
    those of skill in the art. These detection schemes are especially useful for the detection of
    nucleic acid molecules if such molecules are present in very low numbers. In particular aspects
 !o of the invention, biomarker expression is assessed by quantitative fluorogenic RT-PCR (i.e., the
    TaqMan@ System).
    [00372]          Expression levels of an RNA of interest may be monitored using a membrane
    blot (such as used in hybridization analysis such as Northern, dot, and the like), or microwells,
    sample tubes, gels, beads or fibers (or any solid support comprising bound nucleic acids). See
25  U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,770,722, 5,874,219, 5,744,305, 5,677,195 and 5,445,934, which are
    incorporated herein by reference. The detection of expression may also comprise using nucleic
    acid probes in solution.
    [00373]          In one embodiment of the invention, microarrays are used to determine
    expression or presence of one or more biomarkers. Microarrays are particularly well suited for
30  this purpose because of the reproducibility between different experiments. DNA microarrays
    provide one method for the simultaneous measurement of the expression levels of large numbers
    of genes. Each array consists of a reproducible pattern of capture probes attached to a solid
    support. Labeled RNA or DNA is hybridized to complementary probes on the array and then
                                                        116

    detected by laser scanning. Hybridization intensities for each probe on the array are determined
    and converted to a quantitative value representing relative gene expression levels. See, U.S. Pat.
    Nos. 6,040,138, 5,800,992 and 6,020,135, 6,033,860, and 6,344,316, which are incorporated
    herein by reference. High-density oligonucleotide arrays are particularly useful for determining
  5 the gene expression profile for a large number of RNA's in a sample.
    [00374]         Techniques for the synthesis of these arrays using mechanical synthesis methods
    are described in, e.g., U.S. Pat. No. 5,384,261, incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
    Although a planar array surface is preferred, the array may be fabricated on a surface of virtually
    any shape or even a multiplicity of surfaces. Arrays may be peptides or nucleic acids on beads,
 to gels, polymeric surfaces, fibers such as fiber optics, glass or any other appropriate substrate, see
    U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,770,358, 5,789,162, 5,708,153, 6,040,193 and 5,800,992, each of which is
    hereby incorporated in its entirety for all purposes. Arrays may be packaged in such a manner as
    to allow for diagnostics or other manipulation of an all-inclusive device. See, for example, U.S.
    Pat. Nos. 5,856,174 and 5,922,591, herein incorporated by reference.
 [5 Pharmaceutical Compositions/Formulations
    [003751         Pharmaceutical compositions may be formulated in a conventional manner using
    one or more physiologically acceptable carriers including excipients and auxiliaries which
    facilitate processing of the active compounds into preparations which can be used
    pharmaceutically. Proper formulation is dependent upon the route of administration chosen. Any
 !o of the well-known techniques, carriers, and excipients may be used as suitable and as understood
    in the art. A summary of pharmaceutical compositions described herein may be found, for
    example, in Remington: The Science and PracticeofPharmacy, Nineteenth Ed (Easton, Pa.:
    Mack Publishing Company, 1995); Hoover, John E., Remington's PharmaceuticalSciences,
    Mack Publishing Co., Easton, Pennsylvania 1975; Liberman, H.A. and Lachman, L., Eds.,
25  PharmaceuticalDosage Forms, Marcel Decker, New York, N.Y., 1980; and Pharmaceutical
    Dosage Forms and DrugDelivery Systems, Seventh Ed. (Lippincott Williams & Wilkins 1999),
    herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.
    [00376]         A pharmaceutical composition, as used herein, refers to a mixture of a compound
    described herein, such as, for example, compounds of Formula D or the second agent, with other
30  chemical components, such as carriers, stabilizers, diluents, dispersing agents, suspending
    agents, thickening agents, and/or excipients. The pharmaceutical composition facilitates
    administration of the compound to an organism. In practicing the methods of treatment or use
    provided herein, therapeutically effective amounts of compounds described herein are
                                                         117

    administered in a pharmaceutical composition to a mammal having a disease, disorder, or
    condition to be treated. Preferably, the mammal is a human. A therapeutically effective amount
    can vary widely depending on the severity of the disease, the age and relative health of the
    subject, the potency of the compound used and other factors. The compounds can be used singly
  5 or in combination with one or more therapeutic agents as components of mixtures.
    [003771          In certain embodiments, compositions may also include one or more pH adjusting
    agents or buffering agents, including acids such as acetic, boric, citric, lactic, phosphoric and
    hydrochloric acids; bases such as sodium hydroxide, sodium phosphate, sodium borate, sodium
    citrate, sodium acetate, sodium lactate and tris-hydroxymethylaminomethane; and buffers such
 to as citrate/dextrose, sodium bicarbonate and ammonium chloride. Such acids, bases and buffers
    are included in an amount required to maintain pH of the composition in an acceptable range.
    [003781          In other embodiments, compositions may also include one or more salts in an
    amount required to bring osmolality of the composition into an acceptable range. Such salts
    include those having sodium, potassium or ammonium cations and chloride, citrate, ascorbate,
  5 borate, phosphate, bicarbonate, sulfate, thiosulfate or bisulfite anions; suitable salts include
    sodium chloride, potassium chloride, sodium thiosulfate, sodium bisulfite and ammonium
    sulfate.
    [003791          The term "pharmaceutical combination" as used herein, means a product that
    results from the mixing or combining of more than one active ingredient and includes both fixed
 !o and non-fixed combinations of the active ingredients. The term "fixed combination" means that
    the active ingredients, e.g. a compound described herein and a co-agent, are both administered to
    a patient simultaneously in the form of a single entity or dosage. The term "non-fixed
    combination" means that the active ingredients, e.g. a compound described herein and a co
    agent, are administered to a patient as separate entities either simultaneously, concurrently or
25  sequentially with no specific intervening time limits, wherein such administration provides
    effective levels of the two compounds in the body of the patient. The latter also applies to
    cocktail therapy, e.g. the administration of three or more active ingredients.
    [003801          The pharmaceutical formulations described herein can be administered to a
    subject by multiple administration routes, including but not limited to, oral, parenteral (e.g.,
30  intravenous, subcutaneous, intramuscular), intranasal, buccal, topical, rectal, or transdermal
    administration routes. The pharmaceutical formulations described herein include, but are not
    limited to, aqueous liquid dispersions, self-emulsifying dispersions, solid solutions, liposomal
    dispersions, aerosols, solid dosage forms, powders, immediate release formulations, controlled
                                                         118

    release formulations, fast melt formulations, tablets, capsules, pills, delayed release
    formulations, extended release formulations, pulsatile release formulations, multiparticulate
    formulations, and mixed immediate and controlled release formulations.
    [00381]         Pharmaceutical compositions including a compound described herein may be
  5 manufactured in a conventional manner, such as, by way of example only, by means of
    conventional mixing, dissolving, granulating, dragee-making, levigating, emulsifying,
    encapsulating, entrapping or compression processes.
    [00382]          "Antifoaming agents" reduce foaming during processing which can result in
    coagulation of aqueous dispersions, bubbles in the finished film, or generally impair processing.
 to Exemplary anti-foaming agents include silicon emulsions or sorbitan sesquoleate.
    [00383]         "Antioxidants" include, for example, butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT), sodium
    ascorbate, ascorbic acid, sodium metabisulfite and tocopherol. In certain embodiments,
    antioxidants enhance chemical stability where required.
    [00384]         In certain embodiments, compositions provided herein may also include one or
  5 more preservatives to inhibit microbial activity. Suitable preservatives include mercury
    containing substances such as merfen and thiomersal; stabilized chlorine dioxide; and quaternary
    ammonium compounds such as benzalkonium chloride, cetyltrimethylammonium bromide and
    cetylpyridinium chloride.
    [003851         Formulations described herein may benefit from antioxidants, metal chelating
 !o agents, thiol containing compounds and other general stabilizing agents. Examples of such
    stabilizing agents, include, but are not limited to: (a) about 0.5% to about 2% w/v glycerol, (b)
    about 0.10%to about 1% w/v methionine, (c) about 0.10%to about 2% w/v monothioglycerol, (d)
    about 1 mM to about 10 mM EDTA, (e) about 0.01% to about 2% w/v ascorbic acid, (f) 0.003%
    to about 0.02% w/v polysorbate 80, (g) 0.00 1% to about 0.05% w/v. polysorbate 20, (h)
25  arginine, (i) heparin, () dextran sulfate, (k) cyclodextrins, (1) pentosan polysulfate and other
    heparinoids, (m) divalent cations such as magnesium and zinc; or (n) combinations thereof.
    [00386]         "Binders" impart cohesive qualities and include, e.g., alginic acid and salts
    thereof; cellulose derivatives such as carboxymethylcellulose, methylcellulose (e.g., Methocel*),
    hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, hydroxyethylcellulose, hydroxypropylcellulose (e.g., Klucel*),
30  ethylcellulose (e.g., Ethocel*), and microcrystalline cellulose (e.g., Avicel); microcrystalline
    dextrose; amylose; magnesium aluminum silicate; polysaccharide acids; bentonites; gelatin;
    polyvinylpyrrolidone/vinyl acetate copolymer; crosspovidone; povidone; starch; pregelatinized
    starch; tragacanth, dextrin, a sugar, such as sucrose (e.g., Dipac"), glucose, dextrose, molasses,
                                                          119

    mannitol, sorbitol, xylitol (e.g., Xylitab*), and lactose; a natural or synthetic gum such as acacia,
    tragacanth, ghatti gum, mucilage of isapol husks, polyvinylpyrrolidone (e.g., Polyvidone" CL,
    Kollidon* CL, Polyplasdone" XL-10), larch arabogalactan, Veegum*, polyethylene glycol,
    waxes, sodium alginate, and the like.
  5 [003871         A "carrier" or "carrier materials" include any commonly used excipients in
    pharmaceutics and should be selected on the basis of compatibility with compounds disclosed
    herein, such as, compounds of any of Formula D and the second agent, and the release profile
    properties of the desired dosage form. Exemplary carrier materials include, e.g., binders,
    suspending agents, disintegration agents, filling agents, surfactants, solubilizers, stabilizers,
 to lubricants, wetting agents, diluents, and the like. "Pharmaceutically compatible carrier
    materials" may include, but are not limited to, acacia, gelatin, colloidal silicon dioxide, calcium
    glycerophosphate, calcium lactate, maltodextrin, glycerine, magnesium silicate,
    polyvinylpyrrollidone (PVP), cholesterol, cholesterol esters, sodium caseinate, soy lecithin,
    taurocholic acid, phosphotidylcholine, sodium chloride, tricalcium phosphate, dipotassium
 [5 phosphate, cellulose and cellulose conjugates, sugars sodium stearoyl lactylate, carrageenan,
    monoglyceride, diglyceride, pregelatinized starch, and the like. See, e.g., Remington: The
    Science and PracticeofPharmacy, Nineteenth Ed (Easton, Pa.: Mack Publishing Company,
    1995); Hoover, John E., Remington's PharmaceuticalSciences, Mack Publishing Co., Easton,
    Pennsylvania 1975; Liberman, H.A. and Lachman, L., Eds., PharmaceuticalDosageForms,
 !o Marcel Decker, New York, N.Y., 1980; and PharmaceuticalDosage Forms and Drug Delivery
    Systems, Seventh Ed. (Lippincott Williams & Wilkins 1999).
    [00388]         "Dispersing agents," and/or "viscosity modulating agents" include materials that
    control the diffusion and homogeneity of a drug through liquid media or a granulation method or
    blend method. In some embodiments, these agents also facilitate the effectiveness of a coating or
25  eroding matrix. Exemplary diffusion facilitators/dispersing agents include, e.g., hydrophilic
    polymers, electrolytes, Tween * 60 or 80, PEG, polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP; commercially
    known as Plasdone*), and the carbohydrate-based dispersing agents such as, for example,
    hydroxypropyl celluloses (e.g., HPC, HPC-SL, and HPC-L), hydroxypropyl methylcelluloses
    (e.g., HPMC K1O, HPMC K4M, HPMC K15M, and HPMC K1OM), carboxymethylcellulose
30  sodium, methylcellulose, hydroxyethylcellulose, hydroxypropylcellulose,
    hydroxypropylmethylcellulose phthalate, hydroxypropylmethylcellulose acetate stearate
    (HPMCAS), noncrystalline cellulose, magnesium aluminum silicate, triethanolamine, polyvinyl
    alcohol (PVA), vinyl pyrrolidone/vinyl acetate copolymer (S630), 4-(1,1,3,3-tetramethylbutyl)
                                                          120

    phenol polymer with ethylene oxide and formaldehyde (also known as tyloxapol), poloxamers
    (e.g., Pluronics F68*, F88*, and F108*, which are block copolymers of ethylene oxide and
    propylene oxide); and poloxamines (e.g., Tetronic 908*, also known as Poloxamine 908*, which
    is a tetrafunctional block copolymer derived from sequential addition of propylene oxide and
  5 ethylene oxide to ethylenediamine (BASF Corporation, Parsippany, N.J.)), polyvinylpyrrolidone
    K12, polyvinylpyrrolidone K17, polyvinylpyrrolidone K25, or polyvinylpyrrolidone K30,
    polyvinylpyrrolidone/vinyl acetate copolymer (S-630), polyethylene glycol, e.g., the
    polyethylene glycol can have a molecular weight of about 300 to about 6000, or about 3350 to
    about 4000, or about 7000 to about 5400, sodium carboxymethylcellulose, methylcellulose,
 t0 polysorbate-80, sodium alginate, gums, such as, e.g., gum tragacanth and gum acacia, guar gum,
    xanthans, including xanthan gum, sugars, cellulosics, such as, e.g., sodium
    carboxymethylcellulose, methylcellulose, sodium carboxymethylcellulose, polysorbate-80,
    sodium alginate, polyethoxylated sorbitan monolaurate, polyethoxylated sorbitan monolaurate,
    povidone, carbomers, polyvinyl alcohol (PVA), alginates, chitosans and combinations thereof.
 [5 Plasticizcers such as cellulose or triethyl cellulose can also be used as dispersing agents.
    Dispersing agents particularly useful in liposomal dispersions and self-emulsifying dispersions
    are dimyristoyl phosphatidyl choline, natural phosphatidyl choline from eggs, natural
    phosphatidyl glycerol from eggs, cholesterol and isopropyl myristate.
    [00389]          Combinations of one or more erosion facilitator with one or more diffusion
 !o facilitator can also be used in the present compositions.
    [00390]          The term "diluent" refers to chemical compounds that are used to dilute the
    compound of interest prior to delivery. Diluents can also be used to stabilize compounds because
    they can provide a more stable environment. Salts dissolved in buffered solutions (which also
    can provide pH control or maintenance) are utilized as diluents in the art, including, but not
25  limited to a phosphate buffered saline solution. In certain embodiments, diluents increase bulk of
    the composition to facilitate compression or create sufficient bulk for homogenous blend for
    capsule filling. Such compounds include e.g., lactose, starch, mannitol, sorbitol, dextrose,
    microcrystalline cellulose such as Avicel*; dibasic calcium phosphate, dicalcium phosphate
    dihydrate; tricalcium phosphate, calcium phosphate; anhydrous lactose, spray-dried lactose;
30  pregelatinized starch, compressible sugar, such as Di-Pac" (Amstar); mannitol,
    hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, hydroxypropylmethylcellulose acetate stearate, sucrose-based
    diluents, confectioner's sugar; monobasic calcium sulfate monohydrate, calcium sulfate
    dihydrate; calcium lactate trihydrate, dextrates; hydrolyzed cereal solids, amylose; powdered
                                                          121

    cellulose, calcium carbonate; glycine, kaolin; mannitol, sodium chloride; inositol, bentonite, and
    the like.
    [003911           The term "disintegrate" includes both the dissolution and dispersion of the dosage
    form when contacted with gastrointestinal fluid. "Disintegration agents or disintegrants"
  5 facilitate the breakup or disintegration of a substance. Examples of disintegration agents include
    a starch, e.g., a natural starch such as corn starch or potato starch, a pregelatinized starch such as
    National 1551 or Amijel*, or sodium starch glycolate such as Promogel" or Explotab", a
    cellulose such as a wood product, methylcrystalline cellulose, e.g., Avicel*, Avicel* PH101,
    Avicel* PH102, Avicel PH105, Elcema P100, Emcocel", Vivacel, Ming Tia, and Solka
 to Floc, methylcellulose, croscarmellose, or a cross-linked cellulose, such as cross-linked sodium
    carboxymethylcellulose (Ac-Di-Sol"), cross-linked carboxymethylcellulose, or cross-linked
    croscarmellose, a cross-linked starch such as sodium starch glycolate, a cross-linked polymer
    such as crosspovidone, a cross-linked polyvinylpyrrolidone, alginate such as alginic acid or a
    salt of alginic acid such as sodium alginate, a clay such as Veegum HV (magnesium aluminum
 [5 silicate), a gum such as agar, guar, locust bean, Karaya, pectin, or tragacanth, sodium starch
    glycolate, bentonite, a natural sponge, a surfactant, a resin such as a cation-exchange resin, citrus
    pulp, sodium lauryl sulfate, sodium lauryl sulfate in combination starch, and the like.
    [00392]           "Drug absorption" or "absorption" typically refers to the process of movement of
    drug from site of administration of a drug across a barrier into a blood vessel or the site of
 !0 action, e.g., a drug moving from the gastrointestinal tract into the portal vein or lymphatic
    system.
    [00393]           An "enteric coating" is a substance that remains substantially intact in the
    stomach but dissolves and releases the drug in the small intestine or colon. Generally, the enteric
    coating comprises a polymeric material that prevents release in the low pH environment of the
25  stomach but that ionizes at a higher pH, typically a pH of 6 to 7, and thus dissolves sufficiently
    in the small intestine or colon to release the active agent therein.
    [00394]           "Erosion facilitators" include materials that control the erosion of a particular
    material in gastrointestinal fluid. Erosion facilitators are generally known to those of ordinary
    skill in the art. Exemplary erosion facilitators include, e.g., hydrophilic polymers, electrolytes,
30  proteins, peptides, and amino acids.
    [003951           "Filling agents" include compounds such as lactose, calcium carbonate, calcium
    phosphate, dibasic calcium phosphate, calcium sulfate, microcrystalline cellulose, cellulose
                                                          122

    powder, dextrose, dextrates, dextran, starches, pregelatinized starch, sucrose, xylitol, lactitol,
    mannitol, sorbitol, sodium chloride, polyethylene glycol, and the like.
    [003961          "Flavoring agents" and/or "sweeteners" useful in the formulations described
    herein, include, e.g., acacia syrup, acesulfame K, alitame, anise, apple, aspartame, banana,
  5 Bavarian cream, berry, black currant, butterscotch, calcium citrate, camphor, caramel, cherry,
    cherry cream, chocolate, cinnamon, bubble gum, citrus, citrus punch, citrus cream, cotton candy,
    cocoa, cola, cool cherry, cool citrus, cyclamate, cylamate, dextrose, eucalyptus, eugenol,
    fructose, fruit punch, ginger, glycyrrhetinate, glycyrrhiza (licorice) syrup, grape, grapefruit,
    honey, isomalt, lemon, lime, lemon cream, monoammonium glyrrhizinate (MagnaSweet"),
 to maltol, mannitol, maple, marshmallow, menthol, mint cream, mixed berry, neohesperidine DC,
    neotame, orange, pear, peach, peppermint, peppermint cream, Prosweet* Powder, raspberry,
    root beer, rum, saccharin, safrole, sorbitol, spearmint, spearmint cream, strawberry, strawberry
    cream, stevia, sucralose, sucrose, sodium saccharin, saccharin, aspartame, acesulfame
    potassium, mannitol, talin, sylitol, sucralose, sorbitol, Swiss cream, tagatose, tangerine,
 [5 thaumatin, tutti fruitti, vanilla, walnut, watermelon, wild cherry, wintergreen, xylitol, or any
    combination of these flavoring ingredients, e.g., anise-menthol, cherry-anise, cinnamon-orange,
    cherry-cinnamon, chocolate-mint, honey-lemon, lemon-lime, lemon-mint, menthol-eucalyptus,
    orange-cream, vanilla-mint, and mixtures thereof.
    [003971          "Lubricants" and "glidants" are compounds that prevent, reduce or inhibit
 !o adhesion or friction of materials. Exemplary lubricants include, e.g., stearic acid, calcium
    hydroxide, talc, sodium stearyl fumerate, a hydrocarbon such as mineral oil, or hydrogenated
    vegetable oil such as hydrogenated soybean oil (Sterotex*), higher fatty acids and their alkali
    metal and alkaline earth metal salts, such as aluminum, calcium, magnesium, zinc, stearic acid,
    sodium stearates, glycerol, talc, waxes, Stearowet*, boric acid, sodium benzoate, sodium acetate,
25  sodium chloride, leucine, a polyethylene glycol (e.g., PEG-4000) or a methoxypolyethylene
    glycol such as CarbowaxTM, sodium oleate, sodium benzoate, glyceryl behenate, polyethylene
    glycol, magnesium or sodium lauryl sulfate, colloidal silica such as SyloidTM, CabOSil, a
    starch such as corn starch, silicone oil, a surfactant, and the like.
    [00398]          A "measurable serum concentration" or "measurable plasma concentration"
30  describes the blood serum or blood plasma concentration, typically measured in mg, Hg, or ng
    of therapeutic agent per ml, dl, or 1of blood serum, absorbed into the bloodstream after
    administration. As used herein, measurable plasma concentrations are typically measured in
    ng/ml or Hg/ml.
                                                          123

    [003991          "Pharmacodynamics" refers to the factors which determine the biologic response
    observed relative to the concentration of drug at a site of action.
    [00400]          "Pharmacokinetics" refers to the factors which determine the attainment and
    maintenance of the appropriate concentration of drug at a site of action.
  5 [00401]          "Plasticizers" are compounds used to soften the microencapsulation material or
    film coatings to make them less brittle. Suitable plasticizers include, e.g., polyethylene glycols
    such as PEG 300, PEG 400, PEG 600, PEG 1450, PEG 3350, and PEG 800, stearic acid,
    propylene glycol, oleic acid, triethyl cellulose and triacetin. In some embodiments, plasticizers
    can also function as dispersing agents or wetting agents.
 to [00402]          "Solubilizers" include compounds such as triacetin, triethylcitrate, ethyl oleate,
    ethyl caprylate, sodium lauryl sulfate, sodium doccusate, vitamin E TPGS, dimethylacetamide,
    N-methylpyrrolidone, N-hydroxyethylpyrrolidone, polyvinylpyrrolidone, hydroxypropylmethyl
    cellulose, hydroxypropyl cyclodextrins, ethanol, n-butanol, isopropyl alcohol, cholesterol, bile
    salts, polyethylene glycol 200-600, glycofurol, transcutol, propylene glycol, and dimethyl
 [5 isosorbide and the like.
    [00403]          "Stabilizers" include compounds such as any antioxidation agents, buffers, acids,
    preservatives and the like.
    [00404]          "Steady state," as used herein, is when the amount of drug administered is equal
    to the amount of drug eliminated within one dosing interval resulting in a plateau or constant
 !0 plasma drug exposure.
    [004051          "Suspending agents" include compounds such as polyvinylpyrrolidone, e.g.,
    polyvinylpyrrolidone K12, polyvinylpyrrolidone K17, polyvinylpyrrolidone K25, or
    polyvinylpyrrolidone K30, vinyl pyrrolidone/vinyl acetate copolymer (S630), polyethylene
    glycol, e.g., the polyethylene glycol can have a molecular weight of about 300 to about 6000, or
25  about 3350 to about 4000, or about 7000 to about 5400, sodium carboxymethylcellulose,
    methylcellulose, hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, hydroxymethylcellulose acetate stearate,
    polysorbate-80, hydroxyethylcellulose, sodium alginate, gums, such as, e.g., gum tragacanth and
    gum acacia, guar gum, xanthans, including xanthan gum, sugars, cellulosics, such as, e.g.,
    sodium carboxymethylcellulose, methylcellulose, sodium carboxymethylcellulose,
30  hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, hydroxyethylcellulose, polysorbate-80, sodium alginate,
    polyethoxylated sorbitan monolaurate, polyethoxylated sorbitan monolaurate, povidone and the
    like.
                                                         124

    [004061          "Surfactants" include compounds such as sodium lauryl sulfate, sodium docusate,
    Tween 60 or 80, triacetin, vitamin E TPGS, sorbitan monooleate, polyoxyethylene sorbitan
    monooleate, polysorbates, polaxomers, bile salts, glyceryl monostearate, copolymers of ethylene
    oxide and propylene oxide, e.g., Pluronic" (BASF), and the like. Some other surfactants include
  5 polyoxyethylene fatty acid glycerides and vegetable oils, e.g., polyoxyethylene (60)
    hydrogenated castor oil; and polyoxyethylene alkylethers and alkylphenyl ethers, e.g., octoxynol
    10, octoxynol 40. In some embodiments, surfactants may be included to enhance physical
    stability or for other purposes.
    [004071           "Viscosity enhancing agents" include, e.g., methyl cellulose, xanthan gum,
 t0 carboxymethyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl cellulose, hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose,
    hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose acetate stearate, hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose phthalate,
    carbomer, polyvinyl alcohol, alginates, acacia, chitosans and combinations thereof.
    [00408]          "Wetting agents" include compounds such as oleic acid, glyceryl monostearate,
    sorbitan monooleate, sorbitan monolaurate, triethanolamine oleate, polyoxyethylene sorbitan
 [5 monooleate, polyoxyethylene sorbitan monolaurate, sodium docusate, sodium oleate, sodium
    lauryl sulfate, sodium doccusate, triacetin, Tween 80, vitamin E TPGS, ammonium salts and the
    like.
    Dosage Forms
    [00409]          The compositions described herein can be formulated for administration to a
 !o subject via any conventional means including, but not limited to, oral, parenteral (e.g.,
    intravenous, subcutaneous, or intramuscular), buccal, intranasal, rectal or transdermal
    administration routes. As used herein, the term "subject" is used to mean an animal, preferably a
    mammal, including a human or non-human. The terms patient and subject may be used
    interchangeably.
25  [00410]          Moreover, the pharmaceutical compositions described herein, which include a
    compound of any of Formula D or the second agent can be formulated into any suitable dosage
    form, including but not limited to, aqueous oral dispersions, liquids, gels, syrups, elixirs,
    slurries, suspensions and the like, for oral ingestion by a patient to be treated, solid oral dosage
    forms, aerosols, controlled release formulations, fast melt formulations, effervescent
30  formulations, lyophilized formulations, tablets, powders, pills, dragees, capsules, delayed release
    formulations, extended release formulations, pulsatile release formulations, multiparticulate
    formulations, and mixed immediate release and controlled release formulations.
                                                         125

    [004111          Pharmaceutical preparations for oral use can be obtained by mixing one or more
    solid excipient with one or more of the compounds described herein, optionally grinding the
    resulting mixture, and processing the mixture of granules, after adding suitable auxiliaries, if
    desired, to obtain tablets or dragee cores. Suitable excipients include, for example, fillers such as
  5 sugars, including lactose, sucrose, mannitol, or sorbitol; cellulose preparations such as, for
    example, maize starch, wheat starch, rice starch, potato starch, gelatin, gum tragacanth,
    methylcellulose, microcrystalline cellulose, hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, sodium
    carboxymethylcellulose; or others such as: polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP or povidone) or calcium
    phosphate. If desired, disintegrating agents may be added, such as the cross-linked
 t0 croscarmellose sodium, polyvinylpyrrolidone, agar, or alginic acid or a salt thereof such as
    sodium alginate.
    [00412]          Dragee cores are provided with suitable coatings. For this purpose, concentrated
    sugar solutions may be used, which may optionally contain gum arabic, talc,
    polyvinylpyrrolidone, carbopol gel, polyethylene glycol, and/or titanium dioxide, lacquer
 [5 solutions, and suitable organic solvents or solvent mixtures. Dyestuffs or pigments may be
    added to the tablets or dragee coatings for identification or to characterize different
    combinations of active compound doses.
    [00413]          Pharmaceutical preparations which can be used orally include push-fit capsules
    made of gelatin, as well as soft, sealed capsules made of gelatin and a plasticizer, such as
 !o glycerol or sorbitol. The push-fit capsules can contain the active ingredients in admixture with
    filler such as lactose, binders such as starches, and/or lubricants such as talc or magnesium
    stearate and, optionally, stabilizers. In soft capsules, the active compounds may be dissolved or
    suspended in suitable liquids, such as fatty oils, liquid paraffin, or liquid polyethylene glycols. In
    addition, stabilizers may be added. All formulations for oral administration should be in dosages
25  suitable for such administration.
    [00414]          In some embodiments, the solid dosage forms disclosed herein may be in the
    form of a tablet, (including a suspension tablet, a fast-melt tablet, a bite-disintegration tablet, a
    rapid-disintegration tablet, an effervescent tablet, or a caplet), a pill, a powder (including a
    sterile packaged powder, a dispensable powder, or an effervescent powder) a capsule (including
30  both soft or hard capsules, e.g., capsules made from animal-derived gelatin or plant-derived
    HPMC, or "sprinkle capsules"), solid dispersion, solid solution, bioerodible dosage form,
    controlled release formulations, pulsatile release dosage forms, multiparticulate dosage forms,
    pellets, granules, or an aerosol. In other embodiments, the pharmaceutical formulation is in the
                                                          126

    form of a powder. In still other embodiments, the pharmaceutical formulation is in the form of a
    tablet, including but not limited to, a fast-melt tablet. Additionally, pharmaceutical formulations
    described herein may be administered as a single capsule or in multiple capsule dosage form. In
    some embodiments, the pharmaceutical formulation is administered in two, or three, or four,
  5 capsules or tablets.
    [004151          In some embodiments, solid dosage forms, e.g., tablets, effervescent tablets, and
    capsules, are prepared by mixing particles of a compound of any of Formula (Al -A6), Formula
    (B1-B6), Formula (C1-C6), or Formula (D1-D6), with one or more pharmaceutical excipients to
    form a bulk blend composition. When referring to these bulk blend compositions as
 to homogeneous, it is meant that the particles of the compound of any of Formula (Al-A6),
    Formula (B1-B6), Formula (C1-C6), or Formula (D1-D6), are dispersed evenly throughout the
    composition so that the composition may be readily subdivided into equally effective unit
    dosage forms, such as tablets, pills, and capsules. The individual unit dosages may also include
    film coatings, which disintegrate upon oral ingestion or upon contact with diluent. These
 [5 formulations can be manufactured by conventional pharmacological techniques.
    [00416]          Conventional pharmacological techniques include, e.g., one or a combination of
    methods: (1) dry mixing, (2) direct compression, (3) milling, (4) dry or non-aqueous granulation,
    (5) wet granulation, or (6) fusion. See, e.g., Lachman et al., The Theory andPracticeof
    IndustrialPharmacy (1986). Other methods include, e.g., spray drying, pan coating, melt
 !o granulation, granulation, fluidized bed spray drying or coating (e.g., wurster coating), tangential
    coating, top spraying, tableting, extruding and the like.
    [004171          The pharmaceutical solid dosage forms described herein can include a compound
    described herein and one or more pharmaceutically acceptable additives such as a compatible
    carrier, binder, filling agent, suspending agent, flavoring agent, sweetening agent, disintegrating
25  agent, dispersing agent, surfactant, lubricant, colorant, diluent, solubilizer, moistening agent,
    plasticizer, stabilizer, penetration enhancer, wetting agent, anti-foaming agent, antioxidant,
    preservative, or one or more combination thereof. In still other aspects, using standard coating
    procedures, such as those described in Remington's PharmaceuticalSciences, 20th Edition
    (2000), a film coating is provided around the formulation of the compound of any of Formula
30  (Al-A6), Formula (B1-B6), Formula (C1-C6), or Formula (D1-D6). In one embodiment, some
    or all of the particles of the compound of any of Formula (Al-A6), Formula (B1-B6), Formula
    (C1-C6), or Formula (D1-D6), are coated. In another embodiment, some or all of the particles of
    the compound of any of Formula (Al-A6), Formula (B1-B6), Formula (C1-C6), or Formula
                                                          127

    (D1-D6), are microencapsulated. In still another embodiment, the particles of the compound of
    any of Formula (Al-A6), Formula (B1-B6), Formula (C1-C6), or Formula (D1-D6), are not
    microencapsulated and are uncoated.
    [004181          Suitable carriers for use in the solid dosage forms described herein include, but
  5 are not limited to, acacia, gelatin, colloidal silicon dioxide, calcium glycerophosphate, calcium
    lactate, maltodextrin, glycerine, magnesium silicate, sodium caseinate, soy lecithin, sodium
    chloride, tricalcium phosphate, dipotassium phosphate, sodium stearoyl lactylate, carrageenan,
    monoglyceride, diglyceride, pregelatinized starch, hydroxypropylmethylcellulose,
    hydroxypropylmethylcellulose acetate stearate, sucrose, microcrystalline cellulose, lactose,
 t0 mannitol and the like.
    [00419]          Suitable filling agents for use in the solid dosage forms described herein include,
    but are not limited to, lactose, calcium carbonate, calcium phosphate, dibasic calcium phosphate,
    calcium sulfate, microcrystalline cellulose, cellulose powder, dextrose, dextrates, dextran,
    starches, pregelatinized starch, hydroxypropylmethycellulose (HPMC),
 [5 hydroxypropylmethycellulose phthalate, hydroxypropylmethylcellulose acetate stearate
    (HPMCAS), sucrose, xylitol, lactitol, mannitol, sorbitol, sodium chloride, polyethylene glycol,
    and the like.
    [00420]          In order to release the compound of any of Formula (Al-A6), Formula (B1-B6),
    Formula (C1-C6), or Formula (D1-D6), from a solid dosage form matrix as efficiently as
 !o possible, disintegrants are often used in the formulation, especially when the dosage forms are
    compressed with binder. Disintegrants help rupturing the dosage form matrix by swelling or
    capillary action when moisture is absorbed into the dosage form. Suitable disintegrants for use in
    the solid dosage forms described herein include, but are not limited to, natural starch such as
    corn starch or potato starch, a pregelatinized starch such as National 1551 or Amijel*, or sodium
25  starch glycolate such as Promogel" or Explotab*, a cellulose such as a wood product,
    methylcrystalline cellulose, e.g., Avicel*, Avicel* PH101, Avicel PH102, Avicel PH105,
    Elcema P 100, Emcocel", Vivacel, Ming Tia, and Solka-Floc*, methylcellulose,
    croscarmellose, or a cross-linked cellulose, such as cross-linked sodium carboxymethylcellulose
    (Ac-Di-Sol"), cross-linked carboxymethylcellulose, or cross-linked croscarmellose, a cross
30  linked starch such as sodium starch glycolate, a cross-linked polymer such as crospovidone, a
    cross-linked polyvinylpyrrolidone, alginate such as alginic acid or a salt of alginic acid such as
    sodium alginate, a clay such as Veegum* HV (magnesium aluminum silicate), a gum such as
    agar, guar, locust bean, Karaya, pectin, or tragacanth, sodium starch glycolate, bentonite, a
                                                           128

    natural sponge, a surfactant, a resin such as a cation-exchange resin, citrus pulp, sodium lauryl
    sulfate, sodium lauryl sulfate in combination starch, and the like.
    [00421]         Binders impart cohesiveness to solid oral dosage form formulations: for powder
    filled capsule formulation, they aid in plug formation that can be filled into soft or hard shell
  5 capsules and for tablet formulation, they ensure the tablet remaining intact after compression and
    help assure blend uniformity prior to a compression or fill step. Materials suitable for use as
    binders in the solid dosage forms described herein include, but are not limited to,
    carboxymethylcellulose, methylcellulose (e.g., Methocel*), hydroxypropylmethylcellulose (e.g.
    Hypromellose USP Pharmacoat-603, hydroxypropylmethylcellulose acetate stearate (Aqoate
 to HS-LF and HS), hydroxyethylcellulose, hydroxypropylcellulose (e.g., Klucel*), ethylcellulose
    (e.g., Ethocel*), and microcrystalline cellulose (e.g., Avicel*), microcrystalline dextrose,
    amylose, magnesium aluminum silicate, polysaccharide acids, bentonites, gelatin,
    polyvinylpyrrolidone/vinyl acetate copolymer, crospovidone, povidone, starch, pregelatinized
    starch, tragacanth, dextrin, a sugar, such as sucrose (e.g., Dipac"), glucose, dextrose, molasses,
 t5 mannitol, sorbitol, xylitol (e.g., Xylitab*), lactose, a natural or synthetic gum such as acacia,
    tragacanth, ghatti gum, mucilage of isapol husks, starch, polyvinylpyrrolidone (e.g., Povidone"
    CL, Kollidon CL, Polyplasdone" XL-10, and Povidone" K-12), larch arabogalactan, Veegum*,
    polyethylene glycol, waxes, sodium alginate, and the like.
    [00422]         In general, binder levels of 20-70% are used in powder-filled gelatin capsule
 !o formulations. Binder usage level in tablet formulations varies whether direct compression, wet
    granulation, roller compaction, or usage of other excipients such as fillers which itself can act as
    moderate binder. Formulators skilled in art can determine the binder level for the formulations,
    but binder usage level of up to 70% in tablet formulations is common.
    [00423]          Suitable lubricants or glidants for use in the solid dosage forms described herein
25  include, but are not limited to, stearic acid, calcium hydroxide, talc, corn starch, sodium stearyl
    fumerate, alkali-metal and alkaline earth metal salts, such as aluminum, calcium, magnesium,
    zinc, stearic acid, sodium stearates, magnesium stearate, zinc stearate, waxes, Stearowet, boric
    acid, sodium benzoate, sodium acetate, sodium chloride, leucine, a polyethylene glycol or a
    methoxypolyethylene glycol such as Carbowax TM , PEG 4000, PEG 5000, PEG 6000, propylene
30  glycol, sodium oleate, glyceryl behenate, glyceryl palmitostearate, glyceryl benzoate,
    magnesium or sodium lauryl sulfate, and the like.
    [00424]          Suitable diluents for use in the solid dosage forms described herein include, but
    are not limited to, sugars (including lactose, sucrose, and dextrose), polysaccharides (including
                                                          129

    dextrates and maltodextrin), polyols (including mannitol, xylitol, and sorbitol), cyclodextrins
    and the like.
    [004251          The term "non water-soluble diluent" represents compounds typically used in the
    formulation of pharmaceuticals, such as calcium phosphate, calcium sulfate, starches, modified
  5 starches and microcrystalline cellulose, and microcellulose (e.g., having a density of about 0.45
    g/cm 3 , e.g. Avicel, powdered cellulose), and talc.
    [00426]          Suitable wetting agents for use in the solid dosage forms described herein
    include, for example, oleic acid, glyceryl monostearate, sorbitan monooleate, sorbitan
    monolaurate, triethanolamine oleate, polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate, polyoxyethylene
 t0 sorbitan monolaurate, quaternary ammonium compounds (e.g., Polyquat 10*), sodium oleate,
    sodium lauryl sulfate, magnesium stearate, sodium docusate, triacetin, vitamin E TPGS and the
    like.
    [004271          Suitable surfactants for use in the solid dosage forms described herein include,
    for example, sodium lauryl sulfate, sorbitan monooleate, polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate,
 [5 polysorbates, polaxomers, bile salts, glyceryl monostearate, copolymers of ethylene oxide and
    propylene oxide, e.g., Pluronic" (BASF), and the like.
    [00428]          Suitable suspending agents for use in the solid dosage forms described here
    include, but are not limited to, polyvinylpyrrolidone, e.g., polyvinylpyrrolidone K12,
    polyvinylpyrrolidone K17, polyvinylpyrrolidone K25, or polyvinylpyrrolidone K30,
 !o polyethylene glycol, e.g., the polyethylene glycol can have a molecular weight of about 300 to
    about 6000, or about 3350 to about 4000, or about 7000 to about 5400, vinyl pyrrolidone/vinyl
    acetate copolymer (S630), sodium carboxymethylcellulose, methylcellulose, hydroxy
    propylmethylcellulose, polysorbate-80, hydroxyethylcellulose, sodium alginate, gums, such as,
    e.g., gum tragacanth and gum acacia, guar gum, xanthans, including xanthan gum, sugars,
25  cellulosics, such as, e.g., sodium carboxymethylcellulose, methylcellulose, sodium
    carboxymethylcellulose, hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, hydroxyethylcellulose, polysorbate-80,
    sodium alginate, polyethoxylated sorbitan monolaurate, polyethoxylated sorbitan monolaurate,
    povidone and the like.
    [00429]          Suitable antioxidants for use in the solid dosage forms described herein include,
30  for example, e.g., butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT), sodium ascorbate, and tocopherol.
    [00430]          It should be appreciated that there is considerable overlap between additives used
    in the solid dosage forms described herein. Thus, the above-listed additives should be taken as
    merely exemplary, and not limiting, of the types of additives that can be included in solid dosage
                                                          130

    forms described herein. The amounts of such additives can be readily determined by one skilled
    in the art, according to the particular properties desired.
    [004311          In other embodiments, one or more layers of the pharmaceutical formulation are
    plasticized. Illustratively, a plasticizer is generally a high boiling point solid or liquid. Suitable
  5 plasticizers can be added from about 0.01% to about 50% by weight (w/w) of the coating
    composition. Plasticizers include, but are not limited to, diethyl phthalate, citrate esters,
    polyethylene glycol, glycerol, acetylated glycerides, triacetin, polypropylene glycol,
    polyethylene glycol, triethyl citrate, dibutyl sebacate, stearic acid, stearol, stearate, and castor
    oil.
 to [00432]          Compressed tablets are solid dosage forms prepared by compacting the bulk
    blend of the formulations described above. In various embodiments, compressed tablets which
    are designed to dissolve in the mouth will include one or more flavoring agents. In other
    embodiments, the compressed tablets will include a film surrounding the final compressed
    tablet. In some embodiments, the film coating can provide a delayed release of the compound of
 t5 of any of Formula D or the second agent, from the formulation. In other embodiments, the film
    coating aids in patient compliance (e.g., Opadry* coatings or sugar coating). Film coatings
    including Opadry* typically range from about 1% to about 30% of the tablet weight. In other
    embodiments, the compressed tablets include one or more excipients.
    [00433]          A capsule may be prepared, for example, by placing the bulk blend of the
 !o formulation of the compound of any of Formula D or the second agent, described above, inside
    of a capsule. In some embodiments, the formulations (non-aqueous suspensions and solutions)
    are placed in a soft gelatin capsule. In other embodiments, the formulations are placed in
    standard gelatin capsules or non-gelatin capsules such as capsules comprising HPMC. In other
    embodiments, the formulation is placed in a sprinkle capsule, wherein the capsule may be
25  swallowed whole or the capsule may be opened and the contents sprinkled on food prior to
    eating. In some embodiments, the therapeutic dose is split into multiple (e.g., two, three, or four)
    capsules. In some embodiments, the entire dose of the formulation is delivered in a capsule
    form.
    [00434]          In various embodiments, the particles of the compound of any of Formula D or
30  the second agent, and one or more excipients are dry blended and compressed into a mass, such
    as a tablet, having a hardness sufficient to provide a pharmaceutical composition that
    substantially disintegrates within less than about 30 minutes, less than about 35 minutes, less
    than about 40 minutes, less than about 45 minutes, less than about 50 minutes, less than about 55
                                                           131

    minutes, or less than about 60 minutes, after oral administration, thereby releasing the
    formulation into the gastrointestinal fluid.
    [004351          In another aspect, dosage forms may include microencapsulated formulations. In
    some embodiments, one or more other compatible materials are present in the
  5 microencapsulation material. Exemplary materials include, but are not limited to, pH modifiers,
    erosion facilitators, anti-foaming agents, antioxidants, flavoring agents, and carrier materials
    such as binders, suspending agents, disintegration agents, filling agents, surfactants, solubilizers,
    stabilizers, lubricants, wetting agents, and diluents.
    [00436]          Materials useful for the microencapsulation described herein include materials
 to compatible with compounds of any of Formula D or the secodn agent, which sufficiently isolate
    the compound of any of Formula D or the secodn agent, from other non-compatible excipients.
    Materials compatible with compounds of any of Formula D or the secodn agent, are those that
    delay the release of the compounds of of any of Formula D or the secodn agent, in vivo.
    [004371          Exemplary microencapsulation materials useful for delaying the release of the
 [5 formulations including compounds described herein, include, but are not limited to,
    hydroxypropyl cellulose ethers (HPC) such as Klucel* or Nisso HPC, low-substituted
    hydroxypropyl cellulose ethers (L-HPC), hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose ethers (HPMC) such
    as Seppifilm-LC, Pharmacoat*, Metolose SR, Methocel*-E, Opadry YS, PrimaFlo, Benecel
    MP824, and Benecel MP843, methylcellulose polymers such as Methocel*-A,
 !o hydroxypropylmethylcellulose acetate stearate Aqoat (HF-LS, HF-LG,HF-MS) and Metolose",
    Ethylcelluloses (EC) and mixtures thereof such as E461, Ethocel*, Aqualon*-EC, Surelease",
    Polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) such as Opadry AMB, hydroxyethylcelluloses such as Natrosol*,
    carboxymethylcelluloses and salts of carboxymethylcelluloses (CMC) such as Aqualon*-CMC,
    polyvinyl alcohol and polyethylene glycol co-polymers such as Kollicoat IR, monoglycerides
25  (Myverol), triglycerides (KLX), polyethylene glycols, modified food starch, acrylic polymers
    and mixtures of acrylic polymers with cellulose ethers such as Eudragit* EPO, Eudragit* L30D
    55, Eudragit* FS 30D Eudragit* L100-55, Eudragit* LIO, Eudragit* S100, Eudragit* RD100,
    Eudragit* E100, Eudragit* L12.5, Eudragit* S12.5, Eudragit* NE3OD, and Eudragit* NE 40D,
    cellulose acetate phthalate, sepifilms such as mixtures of HPMC and stearic acid, cyclodextrins,
30  and mixtures of these materials.
    [00438]          In still other embodiments, plasticizers such as polyethylene glycols, e.g., PEG
    300, PEG 400, PEG 600, PEG 1450, PEG 3350, and PEG 800, stearic acid, propylene glycol,
    oleic acid, and triacetin are incorporated into the microencapsulation material. In other
                                                          132

    embodiments, the microencapsulating material useful for delaying the release of the
    pharmaceutical compositions is from the USP or the National Formulary (NF). In yet other
    embodiments, the microencapsulation material is Klucel. In still other embodiments, the
    microencapsulation material is methocel.
  5 [004391         Microencapsulated compounds of any of Formula D or the secodn agent, may be
    formulated by methods known by one of ordinary skill in the art. Such known methods include,
    e.g., spray drying processes, spinning disk-solvent processes, hot melt processes, spray chilling
    methods, fluidized bed, electrostatic deposition, centrifugal extrusion, rotational suspension
    separation, polymerization at liquid-gas or solid-gas interface, pressure extrusion, or spraying
 t0 solvent extraction bath. In addition to these, several chemical techniques, e.g., complex
    coacervation, solvent evaporation, polymer-polymer incompatibility, interfacial polymerization
    in liquid media, in situ polymerization, in-liquid drying, and desolvation in liquid media could
    also be used. Furthermore, other methods such as roller compaction, extrusion/spheronization,
    coacervation, or nanoparticle coating may also be used.
 [5 [00440]         In one embodiment, the particles of compounds of any of Formula D or the
    secodn agent, are microencapsulated prior to being formulated into one of the above forms. In
    still another embodiment, some or most of the particles are coated prior to being further
    formulated by using standard coating procedures, such as those described in Remington's
    PharmaceuticalSciences, 20th Edition (2000).
 !o [00441]         In other embodiments, the solid dosage formulations of the compounds of any of
    Formula D or the second agent, are plasticized (coated) with one or more layers. Illustratively, a
    plasticizer is generally a high boiling point solid or liquid. Suitable plasticizers can be added
    from about 0.01% to about 50% by weight (w/w) of the coating composition. Plasticizers
    include, but are not limited to, diethyl phthalate, citrate esters, polyethylene glycol, glycerol,
25  acetylated glycerides, triacetin, polypropylene glycol, polyethylene glycol, triethyl citrate,
    dibutyl sebacate, stearic acid, stearol, stearate, and castor oil.
    [00442]         In other embodiments, a powder including the formulations with a compound of
    any of Formula D or the secodn agent, described herein, may be formulated to include one or
    more pharmaceutical excipients and flavors. Such a powder may be prepared, for example, by
30  mixing the formulation and optional pharmaceutical excipients to form a bulk blend
    composition. Additional embodiments also include a suspending agent and/or a wetting agent.
    This bulk blend is uniformly subdivided into unit dosage packaging or multi-dosage packaging
    units.
                                                          133

    [004431          In still other embodiments, effervescent powders are also prepared in accordance
    with the present disclosure. Effervescent salts have been used to disperse medicines in water for
    oral administration. Effervescent salts are granules or coarse powders containing a medicinal
    agent in a dry mixture, usually composed of sodium bicarbonate, citric acid and/or tartaric acid.
  5 When salts of the compositions described herein are added to water, the acids and the base react
    to liberate carbon dioxide gas, thereby causing "effervescence." Examples of effervescent salts
    include, e.g., the following ingredients: sodium bicarbonate or a mixture of sodium bicarbonate
    and sodium carbonate, citric acid and/or tartaric acid. Any acid-base combination that results in
    the liberation of carbon dioxide can be used in place of the combination of sodium bicarbonate
 to and citric and tartaric acids, as long as the ingredients were suitable for pharmaceutical use and
    result in a pH of about 6.0 or higher.
    [00444]          In some embodiments, the solid dosage forms described herein can be formulated
    as enteric coated delayed release oral dosage forms, i.e., as an oral dosage form of a
    pharmaceutical composition as described herein which utilizes an enteric coating to affect
 [5 release in the small intestine of the gastrointestinal tract. The enteric coated dosage form may be
    a compressed or molded or extruded tablet/mold (coated or uncoated) containing granules,
    powder, pellets, beads or particles of the active ingredient and/or other composition components,
    which are themselves coated or uncoated. The enteric coated oral dosage form may also be a
    capsule (coated or uncoated) containing pellets, beads or granules of the solid carrier or the
 !o composition, which are themselves coated or uncoated.
    [004451          The term "delayed release" as used herein refers to the delivery so that the release
    can be accomplished at some generally predictable location in the intestinal tract more distal to
    that which would have been accomplished if there had been no delayed release alterations. In
    some embodiments the method for delay of release is coating. Any coatings should be applied to
25  a sufficient thickness such that the entire coating does not dissolve in the gastrointestinal fluids
    at pH below about 5, but does dissolve at pH about 5 and above. It is expected that any anionic
    polymer exhibiting a pH-dependent solubility profile can be used as an enteric coating in the
    methods and compositions described herein to achieve delivery to the lower gastrointestinal
    tract. In some embodiments the polymers described herein are anionic carboxylic polymers. In
30  other embodiments, the polymers and compatible mixtures thereof, and some of their properties,
    include, but are not limited to:
             (a) Shellac, also called purified lac, a refined product obtained from the resinous
                 secretion of an insect. This coating dissolves in media of pH >7;
                                                           134

             (b) Acrylic polymers. The performance of acrylic polymers (primarily their solubility in
                 biological fluids) can vary based on the degree and type of substitution. Examples of
                 suitable acrylic polymers include methacrylic acid copolymers and ammonium
                 methacrylate copolymers. The Eudragit series E, L, S, RL, RS and NE (Rohm
  5              Pharma) are available as solubilized in organic solvent, aqueous dispersion, or dry
                 powders. The Eudragit series RL, NE, and RS are insoluble in the gastrointestinal
                 tract but are permeable and are used primarily for colonic targeting. The Eudragit
                 series E dissolve in the stomach. The Eudragit series L, L-30D and S are insoluble in
                 stomach and dissolve in the intestine;
 to          (c) Cellulose Derivatives. Examples of suitable cellulose derivatives are: ethyl cellulose;
                 reaction mixtures of partial acetate esters of cellulose with phthalic anhydride. The
                 performance can vary based on the degree and type of substitution. Cellulose acetate
                 phthalate (CAP) dissolves in pH >6. Aquateric (FMC) is an aqueous based system
                 and is a spray dried CAP psuedolatex with particles <1 pum. Other components in
 [5              Aquateric can include pluronics, Tweens, and acetylated monoglycerides. Other
                 suitable cellulose derivatives include: cellulose acetate trimellitate (Eastman);
                 methylcellulose (Pharmacoat, Methocel); hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose phthalate
                 (HPMCP); hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose succinate (HPMCS); and
                 hydroxypropylmethylcellulose acetate succinate (e.g., AQOAT (Shin Etsu)). The
  !o             performance can vary based on the degree and type of substitution. For example,
                 HPMCP such as, HP-50, HP-55, HP-55S, HP-55F grades are suitable. The
                 performance can vary based on the degree and type of substitution. For example,
                 suitable grades of hydroxypropylmethylcellulose acetate succinate include, but are
                 not limited to, AS-LG (LF), which dissolves at pH 5, AS-MG (MF), which dissolves
25               at pH 5.5, and AS-HG (HF), which dissolves at higher pH. These polymers are
                 offered as granules, or as fine powders for aqueous dispersions; Poly Vinyl Acetate
                 Phthalate (PVAP). PVAP dissolves in pH >5, and it is much less permeable to water
                 vapor and gastric fluids.
     [00446]         In some embodiments, the coating can, and usually does, contain a plasticizer and
30   possibly other coating excipients such as colorants, talc, and/or magnesium stearate, which are
     well known in the art. Suitable plasticizers include triethyl citrate (Citroflex 2), triacetin
     (glyceryl triacetate), acetyl triethyl citrate (Citroflec A2), Carbowax 400 (polyethylene glycol
     400), diethyl phthalate, tributyl citrate, acetylated monoglycerides, glycerol, fatty acid esters,
                                                             135

    propylene glycol, and dibutyl phthalate. In particular, anionic carboxylic acrylic polymers
    usually will contain 10-25% by weight of a plasticizer, especially dibutyl phthalate,
    polyethylene glycol, triethyl citrate and triacetin. Conventional coating techniques such as spray
    or pan coating are employed to apply coatings. The coating thickness must be sufficient to
  5 ensure that the oral dosage form remains intact until the desired site of topical delivery in the
    intestinal tract is reached.
    [004471          Colorants, detackifiers, surfactants, antifoaming agents, lubricants (e.g., camuba
    wax or PEG) may be added to the coatings besides plasticizers to solubilize or disperse the
    coating material, and to improve coating performance and the coated product.
 to [00448]          In other embodiments, the formulations described herein, which include
    compounds of Formula D or the secodn agent, are delivered using a pulsatile dosage form. A
    pulsatile dosage form is capable of providing one or more immediate release pulses at
    predetermined time points after a controlled lag time or at specific sites. Many other types of
    controlled release systems known to those of ordinary skill in the art and are suitable for use
 [5 with the formulations described herein. Examples of such delivery systems include, e.g.,
    polymer-based systems, such as polylactic and polyglycolic acid, plyanhydrides and
    polycaprolactone; porous matrices, nonpolymer-based systems that are lipids, including sterols,
    such as cholesterol, cholesterol esters and fatty acids, or neutral fats, such as mono-, di- and
    triglycerides; hydrogel release systems; silastic systems; peptide-based systems; wax coatings,
 !o bioerodible dosage forms, compressed tablets using conventional binders and the like. See, e.g.,
    Liberman et al., PharmaceuticalDosage Forms, 2 Ed., Vol. 1, pp. 209-214 (1990); Singh et al.,
    Encyclopedia ofPharmaceuticalTechnology, 2 nd Ed., pp. 751-753 (2002); U.S. Pat. Nos.
    4,327,725, 4,624,848, 4,968,509, 5,461,140, 5,456,923, 5,516,527, 5,622,721, 5,686,105,
    5,700,410, 5,977,175, 6,465,014 and 6,932,983, each of which is specifically incorporated by
25  reference.
    [00449]          In some embodiments, pharmaceutical formulations are provided that include
    particles of the compounds of any of Formula D or the secodn agent, described herein and at
    least one dispersing agent or suspending agent for oral administration to a subject. The
    formulations may be a powder and/or granules for suspension, and upon admixture with water, a
30  substantially uniform suspension is obtained.
    [004501          Liquid formulation dosage forms for oral administration can be aqueous
    suspensions selected from the group including, but not limited to, pharmaceutically acceptable
    aqueous oral dispersions, emulsions, solutions, elixirs, gels, and syrups. See, e.g., Singh et al.,
                                                          136

    Encyclopedia ofPharmaceuticalTechnology, 2 nd Ed., pp. 754-757 (2002). In addition to the
    particles of compounds of Formula (Al-A6), the liquid dosage forms may include additives,
    such as: (a) disintegrating agents; (b) dispersing agents; (c) wetting agents; (d) at least one
    preservative, (e) viscosity enhancing agents, (f) at least one sweetening agent, and (g) at least
  5 one flavoring agent. In some embodiments, the aqueous dispersions can further include a
    crystalline inhibitor.
    [004511          The aqueous suspensions and dispersions described herein can remain in a
    homogenous state, as defined in The USP Pharmacists' Pharmacopeia (2005 edition, chapter
    905), for at least 4 hours. The homogeneity should be determined by a sampling method
 t0 consistent with regard to determining homogeneity of the entire composition. In one
    embodiment, an aqueous suspension can be re-suspended into a homogenous suspension by
    physical agitation lasting less than 1 minute. In another embodiment, an aqueous suspension can
    be re-suspended into a homogenous suspension by physical agitation lasting less than 45
    seconds. In yet another embodiment, an aqueous suspension can be re-suspended into a
 [5 homogenous suspension by physical agitation lasting less than 30 seconds. In still another
    embodiment, no agitation is necessary to maintain a homogeneous aqueous dispersion.
    [00452]          Examples of disintegrating agents for use in the aqueous suspensions and
    dispersions include, but are not limited to, a starch, e.g., a natural starch such as corn starch or
    potato starch, a pregelatinized starch such as National 1551 or Amijel*, or sodium starch
 !o glycolate such as Promogel" or Explotab*; a cellulose such as a wood product, methylcrystalline
    cellulose, e.g., Avicel*, Avicel* PHIO, Avicel* PH102, Avicel PH105, Elcema P100,
    Emcocel", Vivacel, Ming Tia", and Solka-Floc*, methylcellulose, croscarmellose, or a cross
    linked cellulose, such as cross-linked sodium carboxymethylcellulose (Ac-Di-Sol"), cross
    linked carboxymethylcellulose, or cross-linked croscarmellose; a cross-linked starch such as
25  sodium starch glycolate; a cross-linked polymer such as crospovidone; a cross-linked
    polyvinylpyrrolidone; alginate such as alginic acid or a salt of alginic acid such as sodium
    alginate; a clay such as Veegum* HV (magnesium aluminum silicate); a gum such as agar, guar,
    locust bean, Karaya, pectin, or tragacanth; sodium starch glycolate; bentonite; a natural sponge;
    a surfactant; a resin such as a cation-exchange resin; citrus pulp; sodium lauryl sulfate; sodium
30  lauryl sulfate in combination starch; and the like.
    [00453]          In some embodiments, the dispersing agents suitable for the aqueous suspensions
    and dispersions described herein are known in the art and include, for example, hydrophilic
    polymers, electrolytes, Tween * 60 or 80, PEG, polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP; commercially
                                                         137

    known as Plasdone*), and the carbohydrate-based dispersing agents such as, for example,
    hydroxypropylcellulose and hydroxypropyl cellulose ethers (e.g., HPC, HPC-SL, and HPC-L),
    hydroxypropyl methylcellulose and hydroxypropyl methylcellulose ethers (e.g. HPMC KIO,
    HPMC K4M, HPMC KI 5M, and HPMC KI 00M), carboxymethylcellulose sodium,
  5 methylcellulose, hydroxyethylcellulose, hydroxypropylmethyl-cellulose phthalate,
    hydroxypropylmethyl-cellulose acetate stearate, noncrystalline cellulose, magnesium aluminum
    silicate, triethanolamine, polyvinyl alcohol (PVA), polyvinylpyrrolidone/vinyl acetate
    copolymer (Plasdone", e.g., S-630), 4-(1,1,3,3-tetramethylbutyl)-phenol polymer with ethylene
    oxide and formaldehyde (also known as tyloxapol), poloxamers (e.g., Pluronics F68*, F88*, and
 to F108*, which are block copolymers of ethylene oxide and propylene oxide); and poloxamines
    (e.g., Tetronic 908*, also known as Poloxamine 908*g, which is a tetrafunctional block
    copolymer derived from sequential addition of propylene oxide and ethylene oxide to
    ethylenediamine (BASF Corporation, Parsippany, N.J.)). In other embodiments, the dispersing
    agent is selected from a group not comprising one of the following agents: hydrophilic
 [5 polymers; electrolytes; Tween* 60 or 80; PEG; polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP);
    hydroxypropylcellulose and hydroxypropyl cellulose ethers (e.g., HPC, HPC-SL, and HPC-L);
    hydroxypropyl methylcellulose and hydroxypropyl methylcellulose ethers (e.g. HPMC KIO,
    HPMC K4M, HPMC K15M, HPMC KIOM, and Pharmacoat* USP 2910 (Shin-Etsu));
    carboxymethylcellulose sodium; methylcellulose; hydroxyethylcellulose; hydroxypropylmethyl
 !o cellulose phthalate; hydroxypropylmethyl-cellulose acetate stearate; non-crystalline cellulose;
    magnesium aluminum silicate; triethanolamine; polyvinyl alcohol (PVA); 4-(1,1,3,3
    tetramethylbutyl)-phenol polymer with ethylene oxide and formaldehyde; poloxamers (e.g.,
    Pluronics F68*, F88*, and F108*, which are block copolymers of ethylene oxide and propylene
    oxide); or poloxamines (e.g., Tetronic 908*k, also known as Poloxamine 908*k).
25  [00454]          Wetting agents suitable for the aqueous suspensions and dispersions described
    herein are known in the art and include, but are not limited to, cetyl alcohol, glycerol
    monostearate, polyoxyethylene sorbitan fatty acid esters (e.g., the commercially available
    Tweens* such as e.g., Tween 20"k and Tween 80*k (ICI Specialty Chemicals)), and polyethylene
    glycols (e.g., Carbowaxs 3350* and 1450*, and Carbopol 934* (Union Carbide)), oleic acid,
30  glyceryl monostearate, sorbitan monooleate, sorbitan monolaurate, triethanolamine oleate,
    polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate, polyoxyethylene sorbitan monolaurate, sodium oleate,
    sodium lauryl sulfate, sodium docusate, triacetin, vitamin E TPGS, sodium taurocholate,
    simethicone, phosphotidylcholine and the like
                                                        138

    [004551         Suitable preservatives for the aqueous suspensions or dispersions described
    herein include, for example, potassium sorbate, parabens (e.g., methylparaben and
    propylparaben), benzoic acid and its salts, other esters of parahydroxybenzoic acid such as
    butylparaben, alcohols such as ethyl alcohol or benzyl alcohol, phenolic compounds such as
  5 phenol, or quaternary compounds such as benzalkonium chloride. Preservatives, as used herein,
    are incorporated into the dosage form at a concentration sufficient to inhibit microbial growth.
    [00456]         Suitable viscosity enhancing agents for the aqueous suspensions or dispersions
    described herein include, but are not limited to, methyl cellulose, xanthan gum, carboxymethyl
    cellulose, hydroxypropyl cellulose, hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose, Plasdon" S-630, carbomer,
 t0 polyvinyl alcohol, alginates, acacia, chitosans and combinations thereof. The concentration of
    the viscosity enhancing agent will depend upon the agent selected and the viscosity desired.
    [004571         Examples of sweetening agents suitable for the aqueous suspensions or
    dispersions described herein include, for example, acacia syrup, acesulfame K, alitame, anise,
    apple, aspartame, banana, Bavarian cream, berry, black currant, butterscotch, calcium citrate,
 [5 camphor, caramel, cherry, cherry cream, chocolate, cinnamon, bubble gum, citrus, citrus punch,
    citrus cream, cotton candy, cocoa, cola, cool cherry, cool citrus, cyclamate, cylamate, dextrose,
    eucalyptus, eugenol, fructose, fruit punch, ginger, glycyrrhetinate, glycyrrhiza (licorice) syrup,
    grape, grapefruit, honey, isomalt, lemon, lime, lemon cream, monoammonium glyrrhizinate
    (MagnaSweet*), maltol, mannitol, maple, marshmallow, menthol, mint cream, mixed berry,
 !o neohesperidine DC, neotame, orange, pear, peach, peppermint, peppermint cream, Prosweet*
    Powder, raspberry, root beer, rum, saccharin, safrole, sorbitol, spearmint, spearmint cream,
    strawberry, strawberry cream, stevia, sucralose, sucrose, sodium saccharin, saccharin,
    aspartame, acesulfame potassium, mannitol, talin, sucralose, sorbitol, swiss cream, tagatose,
    tangerine, thaumatin, tutti fruitti, vanilla, walnut, watermelon, wild cherry, wintergreen, xylitol,
25  or any combination of these flavoring ingredients, e.g., anise-menthol, cherry-anise, cinnamon
    orange, cherry-cinnamon, chocolate-mint, honey-lemon, lemon-lime, lemon-mint, menthol
    eucalyptus, orange-cream, vanilla-mint, and mixtures thereof. In one embodiment, the aqueous
    liquid dispersion can comprise a sweetening agent or flavoring agent in a concentration ranging
    from about 0.001% to about 1.0% the volume of the aqueous dispersion. In another
30  embodiment, the aqueous liquid dispersion can comprise a sweetening agent or flavoring agent
    in a concentration ranging from about 0.005% to about 0.5% the volume of the aqueous
    dispersion. In yet another embodiment, the aqueous liquid dispersion can comprise a sweetening
                                                          139

    agent or flavoring agent in a concentration ranging from about 0.010%to about 1.0% the volume
    of the aqueous dispersion.
    [00458]          In addition to the additives listed above, the liquid formulations can also include
    inert diluents commonly used in the art, such as water or other solvents, solubilizing agents, and
  5 emulsifiers. Exemplary emulsifiers are ethyl alcohol, isopropyl alcohol, ethyl carbonate, ethyl
    acetate, benzyl alcohol, benzyl benzoate, propyleneglycol, 1,3-butyleneglycol,
    dimethylformamide, sodium lauryl sulfate, sodium doccusate, cholesterol, cholesterol esters,
    taurocholic acid, phosphotidylcholine, oils, such as cottonseed oil, groundnut oil, corn germ oil,
    olive oil, castor oil, and sesame oil, glycerol, tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol, polyethylene glycols,
 to fatty acid esters of sorbitan, or mixtures of these substances, and the like.
    [004591          In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical formulations described herein can be
    self-emulsifying drug delivery systems (SEDDS). Emulsions are dispersions of one immiscible
    phase in another, usually in the form of droplets. Generally, emulsions are created by vigorous
    mechanical dispersion. SEDDS, as opposed to emulsions or microemulsions, spontaneously
 [5 form emulsions when added to an excess of water without any external mechanical dispersion or
    agitation. An advantage of SEDDS is that only gentle mixing is required to distribute the
    droplets throughout the solution. Additionally, water or the aqueous phase can be added just
    prior to administration, which ensures stability of an unstable or hydrophobic active ingredient.
    Thus, the SEDDS provides an effective delivery system for oral and parenteral delivery of
 !0 hydrophobic active ingredients. SEDDS may provide improvements in the bioavailability of
    hydrophobic active ingredients. Methods of producing self-emulsifying dosage forms are known
    in the art and include, but are not limited to, for example, U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,858,401, 6,667,048,
    and 6,960,563, each of which is specifically incorporated by reference.
    [00460]          It is to be appreciated that there is overlap between the above-listed additives
25  used in the aqueous dispersions or suspensions described herein, since a given additive is often
    classified differently by different practitioners in the field, or is commonly used for any of
    several different functions. Thus, the above-listed additives should be taken as merely
    exemplary, and not limiting, of the types of additives that can be included in formulations
    described herein. The amounts of such additives can be readily determined by one skilled in the
30  art, according to the particular properties desired.
    IntranasalFormulations
    [00461]          Intranasal formulations are known in the art and are described in, for example,
    U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,476,116, 5,116,817 and 6,391,452, each of which is specifically incorporated by
                                                            140

    reference. Formulations that include a compound of any of Formula (Al-A6), Formula (B1-B6),
    Formula (C1-C6), or Formula (D1-D6), which are prepared according to these and other
    techniques well-known in the art are prepared as solutions in saline, employing benzyl alcohol
    or other suitable preservatives, fluorocarbons, and/or other solubilizing or dispersing agents
  5 known in the art. See, for example, Ansel, H. C. et al., Pharmaceutical Dosage Forms and Drug
    Delivery Systems, Sixth Ed. (1995). Preferably these compositions and formulations are
    prepared with suitable nontoxic pharmaceutically acceptable ingredients. These ingredients are
    known to those skilled in the preparation of nasal dosage forms and some of these can be found
    in REMINGTON: THE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OF PHARMACY, 21st edition, 2005, a
 t0 standard reference in the field. The choice of suitable carriers is highly dependent upon the exact
    nature of the nasal dosage form desired, e.g., solutions, suspensions, ointments, or gels. Nasal
    dosage forms generally contain large amounts of water in addition to the active ingredient.
    Minor amounts of other ingredients such as pH adjusters, emulsifiers or dispersing agents,
    preservatives, surfactants, gelling agents, or buffering and other stabilizing and solubilizing
 [5 agents may also be present. The nasal dosage form should be isotonic with nasal secretions.
    [00462]          For administration by inhalation, the compounds of any of Formula D or the
    second agent, described herein may be in a form as an aerosol, a mist or a powder.
    Pharmaceutical compositions described herein are conveniently delivered in the form of an
    aerosol spray presentation from pressurized packs or a nebuliser, with the use of a suitable
 !o propellant, e.g., dichlorodifluoromethane, trichlorofluoromethane, dichlorotetrafluoroethane,
    carbon dioxide or other suitable gas. In the case of a pressurized aerosol, the dosage unit may be
    determined by providing a valve to deliver a metered amount. Capsules and cartridges of, such
    as, by way of example only, gelatin for use in an inhaler or insufflator may be formulated
    containing a powder mix of the compound described herein and a suitable powder base such as
25  lactose or starch.
    Buccal Formulations
    [00463]          Buccal formulations that include compounds of any of Formula D or the second
    agent may be administered using a variety of formulations known in the art. For example, such
    formulations include, but are not limited to, U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,229,447, 4,596,795, 4,755,386, and
30  5,739,136, each of which is specifically incorporated by reference. In addition, the buccal
    dosage forms described herein can further include a bioerodible (hydrolysable) polymeric carrier
    that also serves to adhere the dosage form to the buccal mucosa. The buccal dosage form is
    fabricated so as to erode gradually over a predetermined time period, wherein the delivery of the
                                                         141

    compound of any of Formula D or the second agent, is provided essentially throughout. Buccal
    drug delivery, as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art, avoids the disadvantages
    encountered with oral drug administration, e.g., slow absorption, degradation of the active agent
    by fluids present in the gastrointestinal tract and/or first-pass inactivation in the liver. With
  5 regard to the bioerodible (hydrolysable) polymeric carrier, it will be appreciated that virtually
    any such carrier can be used, so long as the desired drug release profile is not compromised, and
    the carrier is compatible with the compound of any of Formula D or the second agent, and any
    other components that may be present in the buccal dosage unit. Generally, the polymeric carrier
    comprises hydrophilic (water-soluble and water-swellable) polymers that adhere to the wet
 to surface of the buccal mucosa. Examples of polymeric carriers useful herein include acrylic acid
    polymers and co, e.g., those known as "carbomers" (Carbopol*, which may be obtained from
    B.F. Goodrich, is one such polymer). Other components may also be incorporated into the
    buccal dosage forms described herein include, but are not limited to, disintegrants, diluents,
    binders, lubricants, flavoring, colorants, preservatives, and the like. For buccal or sublingual
 [5 administration, the compositions may take the form of tablets, lozenges, or gels formulated in a
    conventional manner.
    TransdermalFormulations
    [00464]          Transdermal formulations described herein may be administered using a variety
    of devices which have been described in the art. For example, such devices include, but are not
 !0 limited to, U.S. Pat. Nos. 3,598,122, 3,598,123, 3,710,795, 3,731,683, 3,742,951, 3,814,097,
    3,921,636, 3,972,995, 3,993,072, 3,993,073, 3,996,934, 4,031,894, 4,060,084, 4,069,307,
    4,077,407, 4,201,211, 4,230,105, 4,292,299, 4,292,303, 5,336,168, 5,665,378, 5,837,280,
    5,869,090, 6,923,983, 6,929,801 and 6,946,144, each of which is specifically incorporated by
    reference in its entirety.
25  [004651          The transdermal dosage forms described herein may incorporate certain
    pharmaceutically acceptable excipients which are conventional in the art. In one embodiments,
    the transdermal formulations described herein include at least three components: (1) a
    formulation of a compound of any of Formula D or the secodn agent; (2) a penetration enhancer;
    and (3) an aqueous adjuvant. In addition, transdermal formulations can include additional
30  components such as, but not limited to, gelling agents, creams and ointment bases, and the like.
    In some embodiments, the transdermal formulation can further include a woven or non-woven
    backing material to enhance absorption and prevent the removal of the transdermal formulation
                                                         142

    from the skin. In other embodiments, the transdermal formulations described herein can
    maintain a saturated or supersaturated state to promote diffusion into the skin.
    [004661          Formulations suitable for transdermal administration of compounds described
    herein may employ transdermal delivery devices and transdermal delivery patches and can be
  5 lipophilic emulsions or buffered, aqueous solutions, dissolved and/or dispersed in a polymer or
    an adhesive. Such patches may be constructed for continuous, pulsatile, or on demand delivery
    of pharmaceutical agents. Still further, transdermal delivery of the compounds described herein
    can be accomplished by means of iontophoretic patches and the like. Additionally, transdermal
    patches can provide controlled delivery of the compounds of any of Formula D or the second
 to agent. The rate of absorption can be slowed by using rate-controlling membranes or by trapping
    the compound within a polymer matrix or gel. Conversely, absorption enhancers can be used to
    increase absorption. An absorption enhancer or carrier can include absorbable pharmaceutically
    acceptable solvents to assist passage through the skin. For example, transdermal devices are in
    the form of a bandage comprising a backing member, a reservoir containing the compound
 [5 optionally with carriers, optionally a rate controlling barrier to deliver the compound to the skin
    of the host at a controlled and predetermined rate over a prolonged period of time, and means to
    secure the device to the skin.
    Injectable Formulations
    [004671          Formulations that include a compound of any of Formula D or the secodn agent,
 !o suitable for intramuscular, subcutaneous, or intravenous injection may include physiologically
    acceptable sterile aqueous or non-aqueous solutions, dispersions, suspensions or emulsions, and
    sterile powders for reconstitution into sterile injectable solutions or dispersions. Examples of
    suitable aqueous and non-aqueous carriers, diluents, solvents, or vehicles including water,
    ethanol, polyols (propyleneglycol, polyethylene-glycol, glycerol, cremophor and the like),
25  suitable mixtures thereof, vegetable oils (such as olive oil) and injectable organic esters such as
    ethyl oleate. Proper fluidity can be maintained, for example, by the use of a coating such as
    lecithin, by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of dispersions, and by the
    use of surfactants. Formulations suitable for subcutaneous injection may also contain additives
    such as preserving, wetting, emulsifying, and dispensing agents. Prevention of the growth of
30  microorganisms can be ensured by various antibacterial and antifungal agents, such as parabens,
    chlorobutanol, phenol, sorbic acid, and the like. It may also be desirable to include isotonic
    agents, such as sugars, sodium chloride, and the like. Prolonged absorption of the injectable
                                                          143

    pharmaceutical form can be brought about by the use of agents delaying absorption, such as
    aluminum monostearate and gelatin.
    [00468]          For intravenous injections, compounds described herein may be formulated in
    aqueous solutions, preferably in physiologically compatible buffers such as Hank's solution,
  5 Ringer's solution, or physiological saline buffer. For transmucosal administration, penetrants
    appropriate to the barrier to be permeated are used in the formulation. Such penetrants are
    generally known in the art. For other parenteral injections, appropriate formulations may include
    aqueous or nonaqueous solutions, preferably with physiologically compatible buffers or
    excipients. Such excipients are generally known in the art.
 to [00469]          Parenteral injections may involve bolus injection or continuous infusion.
    Formulations for injection may be presented in unit dosage form, e.g., in ampoules or in
    multi-dose containers, with an added preservative. The pharmaceutical composition described
    herein may be in a form suitable for parenteral injection as a sterile suspensions, solutions or
    emulsions in oily or aqueous vehicles, and may contain formulatory agents such as suspending,
 [5 stabilizing and/or dispersing agents. Pharmaceutical formulations for parenteral administration
    include aqueous solutions of the active compounds in water-soluble form. Additionally,
    suspensions of the active compounds may be prepared as appropriate oily injection suspensions.
    Suitable lipophilic solvents or vehicles include fatty oils such as sesame oil, or synthetic fatty
    acid esters, such as ethyl oleate or triglycerides, or liposomes. Aqueous injection suspensions
 !o may contain substances which increase the viscosity of the suspension, such as sodium
    carboxymethyl cellulose, sorbitol, or dextran. Optionally, the suspension may also contain
    suitable stabilizers or agents which increase the solubility of the compounds to allow for the
    preparation of highly concentrated solutions. Alternatively, the active ingredient may be in
    powder form for constitution with a suitable vehicle, e.g., sterile pyrogen-free water, before use.
25  Other Formulations
    [004701          In certain embodiments, delivery systems for pharmaceutical compounds may be
    employed, such as, for example, liposomes and emulsions. In certain embodiments,
    compositions provided herein can also include an mucoadhesive polymer, selected from among,
    for example, carboxymethylcellulose, carbomer (acrylic acid polymer),
30  poly(methylmethacrylate), polyacrylamide, polycarbophil, acrylic acid/butyl acrylate copolymer,
    sodium alginate and dextran.
    [004711          In some embodiments, the compounds described herein may be administered
    topically and can be formulated into a variety of topically administrable compositions, such as
                                                          144

    solutions, suspensions, lotions, gels, pastes, medicated sticks, balms, creams or ointments. Such
    pharmaceutical compounds can contain solubilizers, stabilizers, tonicity enhancing agents,
    buffers and preservatives.
    [00472]         The compounds described herein may also be formulated in rectal compositions
  5 such as enemas, rectal gels, rectal foams, rectal aerosols, suppositories, jelly suppositories, or
    retention enemas, containing conventional suppository bases such as cocoa butter or other
    glycerides, as well as synthetic polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidone, PEG, and the like. In
    suppository forms of the compositions, a low-melting wax such as, but not limited to, a mixture
    of fatty acid glycerides, optionally in combination with cocoa butter is first melted.
 to Dosing and Treatment Regimens
    [00473]         Disclosed herein, in certain embodiments, is a method for treating a
    hematological malignancy in an individual in need thereof, comprising: (a) administering to the
    individual an amount of an irreversible Btk inhibitor sufficient to mobilize a plurality of cells
    from the malignancy; and (b) analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells. In some embodiments,
 [5 the amount of the irreversible Btk inhibitor is sufficient to induce lymphocytosis of a plurality of
    cells from the malignancy. In some embodiments, the amount of the irreversible Btk inhibitor is
    from 300 mg/day up to, and including, 1000 mg/day. In some embodiments, the amount of the
    irreversible Btk inhibitor is from 420 mg/day up to, and including, 840 mg/day. In some
    embodiments, the amount of the irreversible Btk inhibitor is about 420 mg/day, about 560
 !0 mg/day, or about 840 mg/day. In some embodiments, the amount of the irreversible Btk
    inhibitor is about 420 mg/day. In some embodiments, the AUCO-24 of the Btk inhibitor is
    between about 150 and about 3500 ng*h/mL. In some embodiments, the AUCO- 24 of the Btk
    inhibitor is between about 500 and about 1100 ng*h/mL. In some embodiments, the Btk
    inhibitor is administered orally. In some embodiments, the Btk inhibitor is administered once per
25  day, twice per day, or three times per day. In some embodiments, the Btk inhibitor is
    administered until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or individual choice. In some
    embodiments, the Btk inhibitor is administered daily until disease progression, unacceptable
    toxicity, or individual choice. In some embodiments, the Btk inhibitor is administered every
    other day until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or individual choice. In some
30  embodiments, the Btk inhibitor is a maintenance therapy.
    [00474]         The compounds described herein can be used in the preparation of medicaments
    for the inhibition of Btk or a homolog thereof, or for the treatment of diseases or conditions that
    would benefit, at least in part, from inhibition of Btk or a homolog thereof, including a patient
                                                         145

and/or subject diagnosed with a hematological malignancy. In addition, a method for treating
any of the diseases or conditions described herein in a subject in need of such treatment,
involves administration of pharmaceutical compositions containing at least one compound of
any of Formula (A), Formula (B), Formula (C), or Formula (D), described herein, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt, pharmaceutically acceptable N-oxide, pharmaceutically active
metabolite, pharmaceutically acceptable prodrug, or pharmaceutically acceptable solvate
thereof, in therapeutically effective amounts to said subject.
[004751         The compositions containing the compound(s) described herein can be
administered for prophylactic, therapeutic, or maintenance treatment. In some embodiments,
compositions containing the compounds described herein are administered for therapeutic
applications (e.g., administered to a patient diagnosed with a hematological malignancy). In
some embodiments, compositions containing the compounds described herein are administered
for therapeutic applications (e.g., dministered to a patient susceptible to or otherwise at risk of
developing a hematological malignancy). In some embodiments, compositions containing the
compounds described herein are administered to a patient who is in remission as a maintenance
therapy.
[00476]         Amounts of a compound disclosed herein will depend on the use (e.g.,
therapeutic, prophylactic, or maintnenace). Amounts of a compound disclosed herein will
depend on severity and course of the disease or condition, previous therapy, the patient's health
status, weight, and response to the drugs, and the judgment of the treating physician. It is
considered well within the skill of the art for one to determine such therapeutically effective
amounts by routine experimentation (including, but not limited to, a dose escalation clinical
trial). In some embodiments, the amount of the irreversible Btk inhibitor is from 300 mg/day up
to, and including, 1000 mg/day. In some embodiments, the amount of the irreversible Btk
inhibitor is from 420 mg/day up to, and including, 840 mg/day. In some embodiments, the
amount of the Btk inhibitor is from 400 mg/day up to, and including, 860 mg/day. In some
embodiments, the amount of the Btk inhibitor is about 360 mg/day. In some embodiments, the
amount of the Btk inhibitor is about 420 mg/day. In some embodiments, the amount of the Btk
inhibitor is about 560 mg/day. In some embodiments, the amount of the Btk inhibitor is about
840 mg/day. In some embodiments, the amount of the Btk inhibitor is from 2 mg/kg/day up to,
and including, 13 mg/kg/day. In some embodiments, the amount of the Btk inhibitor is from 2.5
mg/kg/day up to, and including, 8 mg/kg/day. In some embodiments, the amount of the Btk
inhibitor is from 2.5 mg/kg/day up to, and including, 6 mg/kg/day. In some embodiments, the
                                                     146

amount of the Btk inhibitor is from 2.5 mg/kg/day up to, and including, 4 mg/kg/day. In some
embodiments, the amount of the Btk inhibitor is about 2.5 mg/kg/day. In some embodiments, the
amount of the Btk inhibitor is about 8 mg/kg/day.
[004771          In some embodiments, a Btk inhibitior disclosed herein is administered daily. In
some embodiments, a Btk inhibitor disclosed herein is administered every other day.
[004781          In some embodiments, a Btk inhibitior disclosed herein is administered once per
day. In some embodiments, a Btk inhibitior disclosed herein is administered twice per day. In
some embodiments, a Btk inhibitior disclosed herein is administered here times per day. In some
embodiments, a Btk inhibitior disclosed herein is administered times per per day.
[004791          In some embodiments, the Btk inhibitor is administered until disease progression,
unacceptable toxicity, or individual choice. In some embodiments, the Btk inhibitor is
administered daily until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or individual choice. In some
embodiments, the Btk inhibitor is administered every other day until disease progression,
unacceptable toxicity, or individual choice.
[004801          In the case wherein the patient's status does improve, upon the doctor's discretion
the administration of the compounds may be given continuously; alternatively, the dose of drug
being administered may be temporarily reduced or temporarily suspended for a certain length of
time (i.e., a "drug holiday"). The length of the drug holiday can vary between 2 days and 1 year,
including by way of example only, 2 days, 3 days, 4 days, 5 days, 6 days, 7 days, 10 days, 12
days, 15 days, 20 days, 28 days, 35 days, 50 days, 70 days, 100 days, 120 days, 150 days, 180
days, 200 days, 250 days, 280 days, 300 days, 320 days, 350 days, or 365 days. The dose
reduction during a drug holiday may be from 10%-100%, including, by way of example only,
10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 35%, 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%,
90%, 95%, or 100%.
[00481]          Once improvement of the patient's conditions has occurred, a maintenance dose is
administered if necessary. Subsequently, the dosage or the frequency of administration, or both,
can be reduced, as a function of the symptoms, to a level at which the improved disease,
disorder or condition is retained. Patients can, however, require intermittent treatment on a long
term basis upon any recurrence of symptoms.
[00482]          The amount of a given agent that will correspond to such an amount will vary
depending upon factors such as the particular compound, the severity of the disease, the identity
(e.g., weight) of the subject or host in need of treatment, but can nevertheless be routinely
determined in a manner known in the art according to the particular circumstances surrounding
                                                      147

the case, including, e.g., the specific agent being administered, the route of administration, and
the subject or host being treated. In general, however, doses employed for adult human treatment
will typically be in the range of 0.02-5000 mg per day, or from about 1-1500 mg per day. The
desired dose may conveniently be presented in a single dose or as divided doses administered
simultaneously (or over a short period of time) or at appropriate intervals, for example as two,
three, four or more sub-doses per day.
[00483]         The pharmaceutical composition described herein may be in unit dosage forms
suitable for single administration of precise dosages. In unit dosage form, the formulation is
divided into unit doses containing appropriate quantities of one or more compound. The unit
dosage may be in the form of a package containing discrete quantities of the formulation. Non
limiting examples are packaged tablets or capsules, and powders in vials or ampoules. Aqueous
suspension compositions can be packaged in single-dose non-reclosable containers.
Alternatively, multiple-dose reclosable containers can be used, in which case it is typical to
include a preservative in the composition. By way of example only, formulations for parenteral
injection may be presented in unit dosage form, which include, but are not limited to ampoules,
or in multi-dose containers, with an added preservative. In some embodiments, each unit dosage
form comprises 210 mg of a compound disclosed herein. In some embodiments, an individual is
administerd 1 unit dosage form per day. In some embodiments, an individual is administerd 2
unit dosage forms per day. In some embodiments, an individual is administerd 3 unit dosage
forms per day. In some embodiments, an individual is administerd 4 unit dosage forms per day.
[00484]         The foregoing ranges are merely suggestive, as the number of variables in regard
to an individual treatment regime is large, and considerable excursions from these recommended
values are not uncommon. Such dosages may be altered depending on a number of variables, not
limited to the activity of the compound used, the disease or condition to be treated, the mode of
administration, the requirements of the individual subject, the severity of the disease or
condition being treated, and the judgment of the practitioner.
[004851         Toxicity and therapeutic efficacy of such therapeutic regimens can be determined
by standard pharmaceutical procedures in cell cultures or experimental animals, including, but
not limited to, the determination of the LD 50 (the dose lethal to 50% of the population) and the
ED 50 (the dose therapeutically effective in 50% of the population). The dose ratio between the
toxic and therapeutic effects is the therapeutic index and it can be expressed as the ratio between
LD 50 and ED5 0 . Compounds exhibiting high therapeutic indices are preferred. The data obtained
from cell culture assays and animal studies can be used in formulating a range of dosage for use
                                                     148

    in human. The dosage of such compounds lies preferably within a range of circulating
    concentrations that include the ED 50 with minimal toxicity. The dosage may vary within this
    range depending upon the dosage form employed and the route of administration utilized.
    Kits/Articles of Manufacture
    [00486]          The present invention also encompasses kits for carrying out the methods of the
    present invention. For example, the kit can comprise a labeled compound or agent capable of
    detecting a biomarker described herein, e.g., a biomarker of apoptosis, cellular proliferation or
  5 survival, or a Btk-mediated signaling pathway, either at the protein or nucleic acid level, in a
    biological sample and means for determining the amount of the biomarker in the sample (for
    example, an antibody or an oligonucleotide probe that binds to RNA encoding a biomarker of
    interest) following incubation of the sample with a BCLD therapeutic agent of interest. Kits can
    be packaged to allow for detection of multiple biomarkers of interest by including individual
 to labeled compounds or agents capable of detecting each individual biomarker of interest and
    means for determining the amount of each biomarker in the sample.
    [004871          The particular choice of the second agent used will depend upon the diagnosis of
    the attending physicians and their judgment of the condition of the patient and the appropriate
    treatment protocol of the Btk inhibitors.
 [5                                              EXAMPLES
    [00488]          The following specific and non-limiting examples are to be construed as merely
    illustrative, and do not limit the present disclosure in any way whatsoever. Without further
    elaboration, it is believed that one skilled in the art can, based on the description herein, utilize
    the present disclosure to its fullest extent. All publications cited herein are hereby incorporated
20  by reference in their entirety. Where reference is made to a URL or other such identifier or
    address, it is understood that such identifiers can change and particular information on the
    internet can come and go, but equivalent information can be found by searching the internet.
    Reference thereto evidences the availability and public dissemination of such information.
    Example 1: Treatment of Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma by Administering a Btk inhibitor to
25  Induce Pharmaceutical Debulking
    [00489]          Two groups of patients with Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma (15 each) are treated with
    or without a Btk inhibitor followed by administering a second agent (Taxane). Group 1 is
    subject to the second agent treatment only (Taxane) and Group 2 is subject to a Btk inhibitor
    treatment for 2 days followed by administering the second agent based on the determined
                                                          149

    expression or presence of one or more B-cell lymphoproliferative disorder (BCLD) biomarkers
    from one or more subpopulation of lymphocytes.
    Example 2. Determining the Expression or Presence of BCLD after Administering the Btk
    inhibitor for the Treatment of Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
  5 [00490]          Determining the expression or presence of BCLD after administering compound
    15 to a patient of Group 1 is used by the known procedures.
    Example 3. Use of Taxane for the treatment of Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
    [00491]          Following determination of the expression or presence of one or more B-cell
    lymphoproliferative disorder (BCLD) biomarkers from one or more subpopulation of
 to lymphocytes in the patient, Taxane is used for Group 2 patients.
    Example 4: Clinical Example of Determination of BCLDs Using a Btk inhibitor
    [00492]          A patient with BCLD completes treatment with a Btk inhibitor or another
    treatment, and appears to be in complete remission. After this treatment is stopped, a short
    course of the Btk inhibitor is then given. If cells with markers of the malignant cells appear in
  5 the peripheral blood, in some embodiments it is an indication for continued treatment or for
    starting another treatment. One example of the cell subpopulation investigated for in the
    peripheral blood is cells bearing both the CD5 and CD20 markers, which is typical of CLL/SLL
    and Mantle Cell Lymphoma. These markers can be detectable by flow cytometry. A further
    example of cell type is follicular lymphoma, which is characterized by cells with t(14;18) which
 !o in other embodiments are detectable by PCR or in situ hybridization in cells harvested from the
    peripheral blood.
    [00493]          Based on the markers of the malignant cells as determined in the peripheral
    blood, a suitable second treatment regimen is administered.
    Example 5: Pharmaceutical Compositions:
25  [00494]          The compositions described below are presented with a compound of Formula
    (D) for illustrative purposes; any of the compounds of any of Formulas (A), (B), (C), or (D) can
    be used in such pharmaceutical compositions.
    Example 5a: Parenteral Composition
    [004951          To prepare a parenteral pharmaceutical composition suitable for administration
30  by injection, 100 mg of a water-soluble salt of a compound of Formula (D) is dissolved in
    DMSO and then mixed with 10 mL of 0.9% sterile saline. The mixture is incorporated into a
    dosage unit form suitable for administration by injection.
    Example 5b: Oral Composition
                                                         150

    [004961         To prepare a pharmaceutical composition for oral delivery, 100 mg of a
    compound of Formula (D) is mixed with 750 mg of starch. The mixture is incorporated into an
    oral dosage unit for, such as a hard gelatin capsule, which is suitable for oral administration.
    Example 5c: Sublingual (Hard Lozenge) Composition
  5 [004971         To prepare a pharmaceutical composition for buccal delivery, such as a hard
    lozenge, mix 100 mg of a compound of Formula (D), with 420 mg of powdered sugar mixed,
    with 1.6 mL of light corn syrup, 2.4 mL distilled water, and 0.42 mL mint extract. The mixture
    is gently blended and poured into a mold to form a lozenge suitable for buccal administration.
    Example 5d: Inhalation Composition
 to [00498]         To prepare a pharmaceutical composition for inhalation delivery, 20 mg of a
    compound of Formula (D) is mixed with 50 mg of anhydrous citric acid and 100 mL of 0.9%
    sodium chloride solution. The mixture is incorporated into an inhalation delivery unit, such as a
    nebulizer, which is suitable for inhalation administration.
    Example 5e: Rectal Gel Composition
 [5 [00499]         To prepare a pharmaceutical composition for rectal delivery, 100 mg of a
    compound of Formula (D) is mixed with 2.5 g of methylcellulose (1500 mPa), 100 mg of
    methylparapen, 5 g of glycerin and 100 mL of purified water. The resulting gel mixture is then
    incorporated into rectal delivery units, such as syringes, which are suitable for rectal
    administration.
 !0 Example 5f: Topical Gel Composition
    [005001         To prepare a pharmaceutical topical gel composition, 100 mg of a compound of
    Formula (D) is mixed with 1.75 g of hydroxypropyl cellulose, 10 mL of propylene glycol, 10
    mL of isopropyl myristate and 100 mL of purified alcohol USP. The resulting gel mixture is
    then incorporated into containers, such as tubes, which are suitable for topical administration.
25  Example 5g: Ophthalmic Solution Composition
    [005011         To prepare a pharmaceutical opthalmic solution composition, 100 mg of a
    compound of Formula (D) is mixed with 0.9 g of NaCl in 100 mL of purified water and filtered
    using a 0.2 micron filter. The resulting isotonic solution is then incorporated into ophthalmic
    delivery units, such as eye drop containers, which are suitable for ophthalmic administration.
30  Example 6-Clinical Trial to Determine Efficacy of a Btk irreversible inhibitor in CLL
    and SLL patients
    Patients with CLL and/or SLL:
                                                         151

    [005021          The data provided herein is a pooled analysis of patients with CLL or SLL from
    two clinical trials of a Btk irreversible inhibitor. The initial trial (Study 04753) was a Phase 1A
    multi-cohort, first-in-human, dose escalation trial of a Btk irreversible inhibitor in patients with
    relapsed or refractory B-cell. 56 patients were enrolled between March 2009 and September
  5 2010 and two doses were evaluated, namely oral once-daily dosing of a Btk irreversible inhibitor
    with a 28-day-on, 7-day-off schedule, and a continuous daily oral dosing schedule. Of the 56
    patients enrolled, 16 CLL/SLL patients are included in this pooled analysis.
    [00503]          The second trial (Study 1102) is a Phase lB/IT trial of two once-daily oral doses
    of a Btk irreversible inhibitor in 2 populations of patients with CLL or SLL; a cohort containing
 to patients with relapsed of refractory disease after at least 2 prior treatment regimens, and a second
    cohort of elderly patients with treatment-naYve disease. This study began enrollment in May
    2010, and has enrolled 56 patients to date. For the purpose of this pooled analysis, 38 patients,
    with a minimum of 28 days follow-up and 28 patients with on study tumor assessments are
    included in this analysis. In sum, 56 patients from the two studies are included in this analysis.
 [5 [00504]          The baseline characteristics of patients enrolled to the two studies are
    summarized here. In study 04753, the median age was 66, there were 11 patients with CLL and
    5 patients with SLL. The median # of prior therapies was 3, with a range of 1-10. x% of patients
    had received prior nucleoside analogues, and x% had received prior anti-CD20 agents.
    [005051          In study 1102, the median age was 68, 32 patients had CLL and 2 patients had
 !o SLL. Of the patients with CLL, 10 had del 17p. 15 patients had bulky disease, defined as a nodal
    mass >5 cm diameter. In the relapsed/ refractory cohort, the median # of prior regimens was x.3
    Per the eligibility requirements, all patients had received a nucleoside analogue-based regimen.
    93% had received prior anti-CD20 agents, 9% alemtuzumab, and 19% bendamustine.
    [00506]          Objectives of the analysis
25  [005071          The objective of this pooled analysis is to characterize the nature and kinetics of
    the response to a Btk irreversible inhibitor in CLL. The Btk irreversible inhibitor compound is
    one of a new class of BCR signaling inhibitors, and, similar to other inhibitors of this pathway,
    the kinetics of response differ between the peripheral blood and the nodal compartments. The
    second objective was to summarize the current status of the two studies with respect to best
30  response, patient disposition, and time on treatment. The final objective was the summarization
    of the adverse event profile of the Btk inhibitor on a larger and more diverse population of
    patients with CLL or SLL.
    Response criteria
                                                          152

    [005081          Different response criteria were applied to patients with CLL and SLL
    respectively in these trials. Though considered biologically similar (or identical) diseases, given
    the phenotypic differences in presentation, the IW criteria for CLL are based on improvement in
    circulating lymphocytes, nodal/ splenic/ marrow-based disease, and normalization of
  5 hematologic parameters. In contrast, the NHL criteria used to gauge the lymphomatous
    presentation of this disease (or SLL) are based only on improvement in lymphadenopathy and
    organomegaly.
    Lymphocyte count
    [005091          Figure 5 depicts the change with treatment in the lymphocyte count for a 57 year
 t0 old patient with disease relapse following multiple prior therapies and the poor-risk cytogenetic
    feature delI l q began treatment with a Btk irreversible inhibitor nearly 6 months ago. Typical of
    the majority of CLL patients treated with a Btk irreversible inhibitor, there was an initial, rapid,
    and prominent reduction in nodal disease and spleen size, with a corresponding rise in the
    circulating lymphocyte count, likely a consequence of the inhibitory effects of a Btk irreversible
 [5 inhibitor on lymphocyte homing to the nodal and splenic compartments. Simultaneous with
    these changes, patients reported symptomatic improvement consistent with the resolution of
    bulky disease. Over time, the initial rise in lymphocytes returns to pre-treatment levels in spite
    of sustained reductions in adenopathy and splenomegaly. Cases such as this seen with a Btk
    irreversible inhibitor and similar agents, highlights the difficulty in applying standard response
 !o criteria to newer agents.
    Effect of treatment on Lymph Node SPD
    [005101          As shown in Figure 6, patients treated with a Btk irreversible inhibitor had an
    immediate and marked nodal response to treatment. 85% of evaluable patients achieved a partial
    response and even more had some LN shrinkage. 80% of patients with measurable LN disease
25  achieved a 50% reduction in their SPD within 2 cycles of therapy. Figure 7 shows the
    remarkable shrinkage in Lymph node post-treatment for the 57 year-old patient described supra.
    Change in Lymph Node and absolute lymphocyte count (ALC)
    [005111          Figure 8 depicts the effect of a Btk irreversible inhibitor on LN disease burden
    and lymphocytosis over time in the patients from the Phase Ia trial. Summary statistics from the
30  patients with an early lymphocytosis show a similar pattern in the median percent change over
    time in both ALC and in LN disease burden measured by the SPD. Immediately following
    treatment, patients develop an early lymphocytosis which decreases with time to pre-treatment
    or normal levels. There is a sustained decrease in disease burden shown by the LN sum of
                                                          153

    perpendicular diameters. Thus, with some variability in timing, many patients show a marked
    decrease in tumor burden in both peripheral blood and in LN disease with sustained treatment.
    Adverse Effects
    [00512]         Adverse effects seen as a side effect of the treatment were monitored as outlined
  5 in Figure 9. The effects were categorized by severity into grades 1-4. Grade 3 or greater events
    have been very uncommon. The vast majority of events have been mild in severity. Diarrhea,
    nausea, and fatigue have been the most commonly reported adverse events, with most of the
    reports occurring early in treatment
    [00513]         Thus, the oral Btk inhibitor has marked activity in patients with CLL and SLL
 to including high-risk pts. It provides good disease control with longer follow-up commonly
    exceeds 6 months. There is no evidence of drug-related myelosuppression or cumulative
    toxicity.
    Example 7 Clinical Trial to Determine Safety and Efficacy of Compounds of Formula (D)
 [5 [00514]         The purpose of this clinical trial is to study the side effects and best dose of a
    compound of Formula (D) and to determine its efficacy in the treatment of patients diagnosed
    with recurrent B-cell lymphoma.
            STUDY DESIGN
    [005151         Cohorts of 6 patients each receive a compound of Formula (D) at 1.25, 2.5, 5.0,
 !o 8.3, 12.5, 17.5 mg/kg/d until the MTD is established. In cases where MTD is not reached, dosing
    levels are increased beyond 17.5mg/kg/d by 33% increments. Patients receive daily treatment for
    28 days followed by a 7 day rest period (one cycle). Tests for Btk occupancy by the drug
    ("occupancy") are performed on Day 1, 2, 8, 15 and 29 during Cycle 1 and on Day 1 and 15 of
    Cycles 3, 5, 7, 9, and 11. If < 1 DLT ("dose-limiting toxicity") is observed in the cohort during
25  Cycle 1, escalation to the next cohort will proceed. Patients are enrolled in the next cohort if four
    of the six patients enrolled in the cohort completed Cycle 1 without experiencing a DLT, while
    the remaining two patients are completing evaluation. If> 2 DLTs are observed during Cycle 1,
    dosing at that dose and higher is suspended and the MTD is established as the previous cohort.
    Patients are allowed to continue dosing at the MTD. If > 2 DLTs are seen at the 5.0 mg/kg/d
30  cohort an additional cohort of 6 patients can be added at 3.75 mg/kg/d.
    [00516]         Upon determination of the MTD, a cohort of 6 patients is enrolled to receive a
    compound of Formula (D) at the MTD or "preferred occupying dose" continuously for 35 days
    with no rest period (one cycle).
                                                          154

            STUDY POPULATION
    [005171          Up to 52 patients with recurrent surface immunoglobulin positive B cell non
    Hodgkin's lymphoma according to WHO classification (including small lymphocytic lymphoma
    /chronic lymphocytic leukemia)
  5         STUDY OBJECTIVES
    [00518]          1. Primary Objectives include:
    [005191          A. Determine pharmacokinetics (PK) of an orally administered compound of
    Formula (D).
    [00520]          B. Evaluate tumor response. Patients have screening (i.e., baseline) disease
 t0 assessments within 30 days before beginning treatment. Patients undergo follow-up disease
    assessments following specified dosing cycles. Patients without evidence of disease progression
    on treatment are followed for a maximum of 6 months off treatment for disease progression. At
    screening, a computed tomography (CT) (with contrast unless contraindicated) and positron
    emission tomography (PET) or CT/PET scan of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis are required. At
 [5 other visits, a CT (with contrast unless contraindicated) scan of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis
    are obtained. A CT/PET or PET is required to confirm a complete response. Bone marrow
    biopsy is optional. In patients known to have positive bone marrow before treatment with study
    drug, a repeat biopsy should be done to confirm a complete response following treatment. All
    patients are evaluated for response based on International Working Group Revised Response
 !o Criteria for Malignant Lymphoma, Guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of chronic
    lymphocytic leukemia14, or Uniform Response Criteria in Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia.
    [00521]          C. Measure pharmacodynamic (PD) parameters to include drug occupancy of
    Btk, the target enzyme, and effect on biological markers of B cell function. Specifically, this
    study examines the pharmacodynamics (PD) of the drug in peripheral blood mononuclear cells
25  (PBMCs) using two PD assays. The first PD assay measures occupancy of the Btk active site by
    the drug using a specially designed fluorescent probe. The second PD assay measures inhibition
    of B cell activation by stimulating the PBMCs ex vivo at the BCR with anti-IgM/IgG, and then
    assaying cell surface expression of the activation marker CD69 by flow cytometry The PD
    biomarkers are measured in vitro from a blood sample removed from patients 4-6 hours
30  following an oral dose of the drug. These assays determine what drug levels are required to
    achieve maximal occupancy of Btk and maximal inhibition of BCR signaling. When possible,
    similar studies are conducted on circulating tumor cells isolated from blood of patients.
    [00522]          2. Secondary Objectives include:
                                                         155

    [005231            A. To analyze tumor biopsy samples (when possible) for apoptotic biomarker
    expression analysis.
              Inclusion Criteria
    [00524]            To be eligible to participate in this study, a patient must meet the following
  5 criteria:
              *   Women and men > 18 years of age
              *   Body weight > 40 kg
              *   Recurrent surface immunoglobulin positive B cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL)
                  according to WHO classification, including small lymphocytic lymphoma/ chronic
 to               lymphocytic leukemia (SLL/CLL) and lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma, including
                  Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia (WM)
              *   Measurable disease (for NHL, bidimensional disease > 2 cm diameter in at least one
                  dimension, for CLL > 5000 leukemia cells/mm3, and for WM presence of
                  immunoglobulin M paraprotein with a minimum IgM level > 1000 mg/dL and
 [5               infiltration of bone marrow by lymphoplasmacytic cells)
              *   Have failed > 1 previous treatment for lymphoma and no standard therapy is
                  available. Patients with diffuse large B cell lymphoma must have failed, refused or be
                  ineligible for autologous stem cell transplant
              *   ECOG performance status of < 1
 !o               Ability to swallow oral capsules without difficulty
              *   Willing and able to sign a written informed consent
                       Exclusion Criteria
    [005251            A patient meeting any of the following criteria will be excluded from this study:
         *    More than four prior systemic therapies (not counting maintenance rituximab), except for
25            CLL patients. Salvage therapy/conditioning regimen leading up to autologous bone
              marrow transplantation is considered to be one regimen
         *    Prior allogeneic bone marrow transplant
         *    Immunotherapy, chemotherapy, radiotherapy or experimental therapy within 4 weeks
              before first day of study drug dosing
30       e    Major surgery within 4 weeks before first day of study drug dosing
         *    CNS involvement by lymphoma
         *    Active opportunistic infection or treatment for opportunistic infection within 4 weeks
              before first day of study drug dosing
                                                             156

        * Uncontrolled illness including but not limited to: ongoing or active infection,
            symptomatic congestive heart failure (New York Heart Association Class III or IV heart
            failure), unstable angina pectoris, cardiac arrhythmia, and psychiatric illness that would
            limit compliance with study requirements
  5     .   History of myocardial infarction, acute coronary syndromes (including unstable angina),
            coronary angioplasty and/or stenting within the past 6 months
        *   Known HIV infection
        *   Hepatitis B sAg or Hepatitis C positive
        *   Other medical or psychiatric illness or organ dysfunction which, in the opinion of the
 t0         investigator, would either compromise the patient's safety or interfere with the
            evaluation of the safety of the study agent
        *   Pregnant or lactating women (female patients of child-bearing potential must have a
            negative serum pregnancy test within 14 days of first day of drug dosing, or, if positive, a
            pregnancy ruled out by ultrasound)
 [5     e   History of prior cancer < 2 years ago, except for basal cell or squamous cell carcinoma of
            the skin, cervical cancer in situ or other in situ carcinomas
            Results:
    [00526]          29 pts (12 follicular, 7 CLL/SLL, 4 DLBCL, 4 mantle, 2 marginal) with a median
    of 3 prior therapies have been enrolled on cohorts 1-4. Therapy was well tolerated with most
 !0 adverse events < grade 2. One protocol defined DLT (dose delay > 7 d due to neutropenia) was
    observed. 19/22 pts from cohorts 1-3 are evaluable. The ORR is 42%; 1 CR (SLL), 7 PR (4
    CLL/SLL, 2 MCL and 1FL). In cohort 2, PD demonstrate complete occupancy of Btk by a
    compound of Formula (D), with >95% enzyme occupancy 4 hours post dose in all pts. Basophil
    degranulation, a Btk-dependent cellular process, was completely inhibited up to 24 hrs. T-cell
25  responses were not affected, and no significant depletion of peripheral blood B, T or NK cell
    counts was observed. Positive correlation (R2     = 0.93) was found between Btk active-site
    occupancy in PBMCs (mean of Days 1 and 8) and a compound of Formula (D) plasma AUCO
    (Day 1) at the 1.25 mg/kg dose.
    Example 8: Clinical Example of Diagnosis of BCLDs Using a Btk inhibitor
30  [00527]          A patient with BCLD completes treatment with a Btk inhibitor or another
    treatment, and appears to be in complete remission. After this treatment is stopped, a short
    course of the Btk inhibitor is then given. If cells with markers of the malignant cells appear in
    the peripheral blood, in some embodiments it is an indication for continued treatment or for
                                                          157

   starting another treatment. One example of the cell subpopulation investigated for in the
   peripheral blood is cells bearing both the CD5 and CD20 markers, which is typical of CLL/SLL
   and Mantle Cell Lymphoma. These markers can be detectable by flow cytometry. A further
   example of cell type is follicular lymphoma, which is characterized by cells with t(14;18) which
 5 in other embodiments are detectable by PCR or in situ hybridization in cells harvested from the
   peripheral blood.
   [005281         For patients initially starting on treatment an increase of the malignant
   subpopulation can be an early predictive marker of response or duration of response.
   [00529]         For patients who have previously received treatment and are suspected of
t0 progressing based upon changes (for example in a scan) that are non-diagnostic, the BTK test
   for peripheral blood cell increases could add diagnostic information that enable earlier treatment
   of relapse. This would be valuable in determining whether to re-start treatment for BCLD or to
   watch or to pursue an alternative diagnosis.
   [00530]         The test could yield better diagnostic information for patients whose BCLD is
[5 suspected to be transforming into a more aggressive cellular form. For example both CLL/SLL
   and lower grade follicular lymphoma can transform into a higher grade process which may
   resemble diffuse large B cell lymphoma, and require more aggressive treatment.
   Example 9: Patient Selection
   [00531]         Patient selection screens are performed to identify an individual with the ABC
   subtype of DLBCL. Gene expression profiling is conducted using FFPE biopsy material, using
   RNA amplified with a Nugen kit and assayed on an Affymetrix Ul33Plus 2.0 arrays.
   [00532]          Samples are screened for recurrent somatic mutations. This is accomplished by
   conventional resequencing of candidate genes in the NF-kB and B cell receptor signaling
   pathways (e.g. CARD 11, CD79A, CD79B, MYD88, TNFAIP3) plus p53 by exon amplification
   and standard dideoxy automated DNA sequencing.
   [00533]         The patient selection screen also identifies patients with ABC DLBCL that are
   particularly sensitive or resistant to Btk inhibitors. A positive result for a CARD 11 mutation
   indicates that the individual is resistant to Btk inhibitors because CARD 11 mutations activate
   the NF-kB pathway at a step that is downstream of BTK.
   [00534]         Genomic copy number analysis is also required to adequately assess the activity
   of oncogenic pathways that may be relevant for the response to Btk inhibitors as well as to
   assess prognosis. In particular, ABC DLBCLs harbor genomic deletions of the TNFAIP3 locus,
   which encodes A20, a negative regulator of NF-kB. Thus, a full assessment of A20 status
                                                          158

requires both resequencing to look for somatic mutations and copy number analysis to look for
deletions. In addition, patients are identified with DLBCL tumors that harbor genomic deletions
in the INK4a/ARF locus or have trisomy of chromosome 3 because these genomic aberrations
are associated with poor prognosis in ABC DLBCL. A single pass high throughput DNA
sequencing is performed using the Illumina HiSeq2000 platform to assess genomic copy number
globally.
Example 10: PK and Efficacy of a Btk inhibitor in Individuals with CLL or SLL
[005351         A Btk inhibitor was administered to 33 individuals diagnosed with CLL or SLL.
Efficacy and PK was determined.
                                                           Day 8
             Dose                                        AUCO-24               IWG Resp
    No.       mg      Patient ID      Group       Sex    (ng.h/mL)    Cycle     Mar 2011
      1       420       073-203       NaYve     Female       102        7          PR
     2        420       217-107        R/R       Male        120        8          PR
     3        420       217-202       NaYve     Female       121        7          SD
     4        420       032-110        R/R       Male        155        6          PR
     5        420       217-104        R/R       Male        176        8          PR
     6        420       032-201       NaYve      Male        177        9          PR
     7        420       217-103        R/R      Female      206         8        Nodal
     8        420       032-104        R/R       Male       227         8          PR
     9        420       217-102        R/R       Male       243         9        Nodal
     10       420       217-106        R/R      Female      267         8        Nodal
     11       420       032-109        R/R       Male       318         7        Nodal
     12       420       217-110        R/R      Female      407         7        Nodal
     13       420       038-101        R/R       Male       428         7          PR
     14       420       217-111        R/R       Male       473         7          PR
     15       420       217-109        R/R       Male       498         7        Nodal
     16       420       032-107        R/R       Male       502         8        Nodal
     17       420       073-201       NaYve      Male       532         2          SD
     18       420       032-105        R/R       Male       534         8          PR
     19       420       217-101        R/R       Male       570         9          CR
    20        420       073-101        R/R       Male       593         4          PR
    21        420       217-105        R/R      Female      594         8          PR
    22        420       032-101        R/R      Female      643         9        Nodal
    23        420       073-202       NaYve      Male       648         9          PR
    24        420       217-112        R/R      Female      653         7          SD
    25        420       217-201       NaYve      Male       687         9          PR
    26        420       073-204       NaYve      Male       784         1         NE
    27        420       217-108        R/R       Male       809         1          PD
    28        420       032-108        R/R       Male       907         7          PR
    29        420       032-106        R/R       Male       1200        8        Nodal
    30        420       032-102        R/R       Male       1210        2         NE
    31        420       217-113        R/R       Male       1270        4          Cri
    32        420       032-202       NaYve     Female      1670        8          PR
                                                     159

                                                            Day 8
             Dose                                         AUC0-24                  IWG Resp
   No.        mg      Patient ID     Group        Sex    (ng.h/mL)     Cycle       Mar 2011
    33        420       038-201      NaYve      Female      2000          7            CR
Example 11: Clinical Trial with Btk inhibitor
[00536]         A phase lb/II clinical trial was performed to study the effects of a Btk inhibitor on
individuals with CLL.
[00537]         Study Type: Interventional
[005381         Allocation: Non-Randomized
[00539]         Endpoint Classification: Safety Study
[00540]         Intervention Model: Parallel Assignment
[00541]         Masking: Open Label
[00542]         Primary Purpose: Treatment
[00543]         Group I (elderly, naYve, individuals) received 420 mg/day of the Btk inhibitor.
Group II (R/R individuals, who had twice been treated with fludara) received 420 mg/day of the
Btk inhibitor. Group III (R/R individuals, who had twice been treated with fludara) received 840
mg/day of the Btk inhibitor.
                                                     160

                                                                                                      Patient Characteristics
                                                                          -                 - ----    ----   -------------   ------------------
                                                                                                                                         -----
                                                                                                                                  --------                                              --------------   -------------------        --------------   -------        ------
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ---------
                                                                                                                                -----------------
                                                                                                                                          - -                     ----   -- ---             -
                                                                                                                                                                                        ------    -----   -             -
                                                                                                                                                                                                    --------------------------        --------------
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       --- -
                                                                          -
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------           -                         --  - ---------------- --------------------------                 ---------------------------
  ...............................................................................
                           .........................................         .......        ........         ...................................................
                                                                                                         ........
                                                                                                         ....................................................
 ...A            .
                 .     .........................................................................
                       .........................................................................
 ..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
                                       ................................                                         ... .............                   ........
                                                                                                                                                     .............                                                                                            ..............
   ............                              .......
                                           ..........       .....   ....................
                                                                  -'--     .......
                                                                         ........           .................
                                                                                                    ........                    .........
                                                                                                                                .......             ....... .......
                                                                                                                                                    .......................-   ...
                                                                                                                                                                                -    ............................
                                                                                                                                                                                  ----  --------------------------------
                                                                                                                                                                                             ...............          ...................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .......................
                   ...............          .......
                                               ...............
                  ..........................................     ..........................
                                                                        ....................         .......                 ........                      ........
                                                                                                                                                               ...............       .................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ...............                                   ...............  ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                ............
                 ......    .......            ........
                  .............................................          ..................
                                                                       ..........                    ....... 6 6: 8.......     4 --                        ............
                                                                                                                                                           ........     -40
                                                                                                                                                            .......................................  .......               .............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ........        ...... ...............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ........................                   .......
    DX., pts
            CLL:                                                                                          22(96%)                                                        26(96%)                                                             32(97%)
            SLL                                                                                                 1(4%)                                                                                                                             1(3%)
 - P -- ......           ...                                                                         .....................................................                                                              .......................   ............................
                                                                                                                                          ............................................                                  .......................
                             ..............................
                       ........... ...........       .........
                                                     .........
                                                     ...........                     .....................
                                                                                ........                     ........
                                                                  .....................................................
                                                                                   .......                   ...............                  .....                         ..........
                                                                                                                                                                             .......
                                                                                                                                                                             ...................................
                                                                                                                                                                                     ................
                                                                                                                                                                                                      .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ................
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ....... ...............             ....... ...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ........               .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ........
                                                                   ..........              ................                               .......     .......               ......                       ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                         ....... .........                ...............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ....    ..............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ............
                              ...............                                      .......                   ....... ........
                                                                                                            ..........                         ...  ..                      ................                                              ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ...................         ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .................
                 ...................
 .......... ........ ............          ....................................................................
                                                                                  ........                   .......                                -                           .       . .   ...............................
                                                                                                                                                                                                        .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ........
  ............... .....    ........................................................................
                             .....................................................             ....                   .................................................
                                                                                                     ....................               ..   ..............
                                                                                                                                                   .                .......................
                                                                                                                                          ...............................
                                                                                                                                              ...........................................                                .......
    Prior therapy, %
            Nucleaside analae                                                                                 0(0%)                                                   27 (100-%)                                                             33
            Ritvxi-rn-a-b-                                                                                    0                                                           25 (9354-4                                                         32
           Alkylator                                                                                                                                                      24(69%)                                                            27 {82%)
           Alamt-uz.ymab                                                                                      0(0%)                                                         5 (19--%)                                                               3 (9-/L)
           Ae-n-d--a-muvt-ine-                                                                                0(0%)                                                         3 (30 ',,)                                                       13 (35%)
           01-a-t-u.Mumab                                                                                     0 (001 )                                                                                                                       10 pa%)
                                                                  -------------------------
                                                                  ------------------------    - ------      ----   --------------  ----------
                                                                                                                                    -                                              ------------------------------
                                                                                                                                                                                   ------------   -                    -                   ------  -----------------
                                                                  ------------------------
                                                                  ------------------------
                                                                  -------------------------                                        ---------
                                                                                                                                   ----------                                      ------------------------------
                                                                  ------------------------
                                                                  ------------------------                                                                           -----       -
                                                                                                                                                                           ------- --  ------------                    -                   -   ------
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ---        ----   ---------
                                                                  ------------------------
                                                                  -------------------------                                        ----------                                      ------------
                                                                                                                                                                                   ------------------------------
                                                                  ------------------------
                                                                  ------------------------
                                                                  ------------------------
                                                                  -------------------------
                                                                  ------------------------                                                                                                                                                          . ....     .
                                                                  -------------------------
                                                                  ------------------------
                                                                  ------------------------                                         ---------- ------------------------------
                                                                  ------------------------
                                                                  ------------------------
                                                                  ------------------------
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                      ............. ..........................................
                                                                    ...... - - --..................................
...............................................................................
                   ........... w.........
                              .........               ......
                                                       .....  a'-.......                                                                               ..........                     .........................
                                                                                                                                                                                        ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ....................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ...................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .......................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ...............         .........
 - W io                                          atse
                                         ..........         I m
                                                          .......   e
                                                                   ......  :-M,
                                                                     ......................
                                                                          ........................
                                                                                   ...............    ....................      .......
                                                                                               ..........................................
                                                                                                                           ..........         .         .......
                                                                                                                                               .................................................
                                                                                                                                                       ........................................                                              ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ........                   ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ............
                                 .. ...................
            ANC < 1500JUL                                                                                    1(4%)                                                    6(22%)                                                                  17(52%)
            HG B < 11g/d.L.                                                                                7 (30%)                                                    4(15%)                                                                  19(58%)
            Platelets < 100,C00[pt                                                                         9(39%)                                                     8(30%)                                                                  2-2 (67 5'C)
         Prognostic Markers , %I
            IgVH u n m utated                                                                         8/16(50%)                                                17/24 (71:X,)                                                           13/24 (75/G)
            Del(17p)                                                                                  2/17 (12%)                                                  9/2-4                                                                10/25 (400,G)
            Del(l1q),                                                                                  0117 (0%)                                                  8/24 (33-/,,)                                                        12/25 (48%0)
                                                       3.                                              ..............................         ...........................................
                                                                                                                                         ....................  W z                                     ............          ......................
                  ........
 ......................... .
                 ...........                     ........... -'-
                                                              ...
                                                                .......          ........
                                                                          .............                      ......      6
                                                                                               ..........................................
                                                                                                                                          .... ...............
                                                                                                                                               ..........................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                    ..............
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ............      ...............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ..............
                                                                                                                                                                                                          ..................                    2 5 82 ...........      .....
                                                  kii       6.............................
                                                                   gI1                                          6f$M                                                                               ...............                                                  ..........
   p iM                         I                  > 36
                                                  ...............
                                                  ..........                                         .......           ............    :  ...                            2
                                                                                                                                                                        :: -%      3-9--
                                                                                                                                           ...........................................  "                     ......                   i   7'n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ....  .........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ...   ........      ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ................
 .........................
..........................       ......................................................
                                   ...........................
                                   ........                          ....... - - -.......      ...................                               ..........................................
                                                                                                       .....................................................
                                                                                               - --.....................................................
                                                                    .............................      .......                                                                                                     . .......................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .     .......................
..........................         ...........................
                                ........
                                 .............................     .......                     - ---.....................................................
                                                                   ...............................    .....................................................                                                     ....     .......................
[00544]                                   Tumor assessment was performed every 2 treatment cycles.
Objectives
[00545]                                   Describe the characteristics of the antitumor effect of a Btk inhibitor in
individuals with CLL/SLL, e.g., reduction in lymphadenopathy/splenomegaly, and kinetics of
change in absolute lymphocyte count (ACL).
                                                                                                                                              161

[005461         Summarize the safety profile of the Btk inhibitor.
Inclusion Criteria
[005471         FOR TREATMENT-NAIVE GROUP ONLY: Men and women > 65 years of age
with confirmed diagnosis of CLL/SLL, who require treatment per NCI or International Working
Group guidelines 11-14
[00548]         FOR RELAPSED/REFRACTORY GROUP ONLY: Men and women > 18 years
of age with a confirmed diagnosis of relapsed/refractory CLL/SLL unresponsive to therapy (ie,
failed > 2 previous treatments for CLL/SLL and at least 1 regimen had to have had a purine
analog [eg, fludarabine] for subjects with CLL)
[00549]         Body weight > 40 kg
[00550]         ECOG performance status of < 2
[00551]         Agreement to use contraception during the study and for 30 days after the last
dose of study drug if sexually active and able to bear children
[00552]         Willing and able to participate in all required evaluations and procedures in this
study protocol including swallowing capsules without difficulty
[00553]         Ability to understand the purpose and risks of the study and provide signed and
dated informed consent and authorization to use protected health information (in accordance
with national and local subject privacy regulations)
Exclusion Criteria
[00554]         A life-threatening illness, medical condition or organ system dysfunction which,
in the investigator's opinion, could compromise the subject's safety, interfere with the absorption
or metabolism of Btk inhibitor PO, or put the study outcomes at undue risk
[005551         Any immunotherapy, chemotherapy, radiotherapy, or experimental therapy
within 4 weeks before first dose of study drug (corticosteroids for disease-related symptoms
allowed but require 1-week washout before study drug administration)
[00556]         Central nervous system (CNS) involvement by lymphoma
[005571         Major surgery within 4 weeks before first dose of study drug
[00558]         Creatinine > 1.5 x institutional upper limit of normal (ULN); total bilirubin > 1.5
x ULN (unless due to Gilbert's disease); and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) or alanine
aminotransferase (ALT) > 2.5 x ULN unless disease related
[005591         Concomitant use of medicines known to cause QT prolongation or torsades de
pointes
                                                     162

[005601        Significant screening electrocardiogram (ECG) abnormalities including left
bundle branch block, 2nd degree AV block type II, 3rd degree block, bradycardia, and QTc >
470 msec
[00561]        Lactating or pregnant
Response Criteria
[00562]        NHL IWG criterial were applied to SLL cases without modification
[00563]        The 2008 CLL IWG criteria were applied to CLL cases with the following
modifications:
           a. An isolated lymphocytosis, in the absence of other parameters meeting the
               criteria for PD, was not considered PD
           b. Patients experiencing a lymphocytosis, but obtaining a PR by other measurable
               parameters, were classified as "nodal" response until there was a 50% reduction
               in ALC from baseline in which case they were categorized as PR.
           c.  Patients with a normal ALC (<5K) at baseline with treatment-related
               lymphocytosis required normalization to <5K to be categorized as PR.
                                                   163

Results
                                                  Subject Disposition
N um--b-er--
        -------           --------
                  ---------      ---------
                                         -------- ---------                -----------11e
                                                                ---------2-
                                                                         ---                      --------
                                                                                           --------      ---------
                                                                                                                 ----
                                                                                                                    ----
                                                                                                                       ----  ----
                                                                                                                          ----  -
          F--                                    -------  -----                -----------------  78                  4
                               Range--------                         14         -------------                       03-6
                      o studV
          Su~ject~still                                               1 (91%)22(81%)za                                 (85%
           Dicontinued2
          Subject                                                        (9%)                   5(9%)               5(15%
            Reawn5
          Primary                           a--o   -----------
               Proression
             Disease                                                   0 (2(7%)                                      1(3%
                  e-                          -----   --  --- -                ---------------
                Event-------1-%)-1-3%         --------------
                                              -------------                    -----------
                                                       Be st---------
                                                                Re sponse - -               - -------   ------       -------
                                                                                                                           ---
                                              ----21----27-
                   CR                                                     ...-------
                   PR                       13 ---------
                                              ------ -      --
                                                          d-- -                ---------------
                                              ------------                     -----------
                   PD                              0--------
                               E-             --------       -
                                                    ------------     164-

                                  Best Response by Risk Features
[005641         Results further summarized in Figs. 18 - 27. Figure 18 presents the responses for
the naive, 420 mg/day group. Figure 19 presents the responses for the R/R, 420 mg/day group.
Figure 20 presents the responses by prognostic factors. Figure 21 presents responses over time.
Figure 22 presents the best responses for all patients. Figure 23 presents the best responses for
abstract patients. Figure 24 presents the best response by prognostic factor. Figure 25 presents
initial (Cycle 2) response assessment and best response (420mg Cohorts). Figure 26 presents
initial (Cycle 2) response assessment by dose: relapsed/refractory. Figure 27 presents
improvements in hematological parameters.
Conclusions
[005651         The interim Phase II data confirm that a Btk inhibitor is highly active in both
treatment-naive and relapsed! refractory CLL/ SLL patients
[005661          Class-specific rapid lymph node reduction with concurrent lymphocytosis seen in
the majority of patients
[005671         2008 CLL IWG objective responses (PR + CR) and nodal responses appear to be
durable and independent of high risk genomic features
[005681         A high proportion (850%) of relapsed or refractory patients are free-of-progression
at 6 months (420mg cohort)
Example 12: Long Term Follow-Up Trial for Individuals Taking Btk inhibitor
[005691         The purpose of this study is to determine the long-term safety of a fixed-dose,
daily regimen of Btk inhibitor PO in subjects with B cell lymphoma or chronic lymphocytic
leukemia/small lymphocytic leukemia (CLL/SLL).
[005701          Study Type: Interventional
[005711         Allocation: Non-Randomized
                                                    165

  [005721         Endpoint Classification: Safety Study
  [00573]         Intervention Model: Single Group Assignment
  [00574]         Masking: Open Label
  [005751         Primary Purpose: Treatment
  [00576]         Intervention: 420 mg/day of a Btk inhibitor
  [005771         Applicable conditions: B-cell Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia; Small
  Lymphocytic Lymphoma; Diffuse Well-Differentiated Lymphocytic Lymphoma; B Cell
  Lymphoma; Follicular Lymphoma; Mantle Cell Lymphoma; Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma;
  Waldenstrom Macroglobulinemia; Burkitt Lymphoma; B-Cell Diffuse Lymphoma
  Primary Outcome Measures:
  [00578]         Adverse Events/ Safety Tolerability [Time Frame: 30 days after last dose of study
  drug] - frequency, severity, and relatedness of adverse events
  Secondary Outcome Measures:
  [005791         Tumor Response [Time Frame: frequency of tumor assessments done per
  standard of care] - tumor response will be assessed per established response criteria. This study
5 will capture time to disease progression and duration of response.
  [00580]         Tumor Response [Time Frame: Time to disease progression] - Duration of
  response as measured by established response criteria for B cell lymphoma and chronic
  lymphocytic leukemia
  Inclusion Criteria
  [00581]         Men and women with B cell lymphoma or CLL/small lymphocytic lymphoma
  (SLL) who had stable disease or response to Btk inhibitor PO for at least 6 months on a prior
  Btk inhibitor study and want to continue study drug or who had disease progression on PCYC
  04753 and want to try a higher dose
  [00582]         Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status of < 2
  [00583]         Agreement to use contraception during the study and for 30 days after the last
  dose of study drug if sexually active and able to bear children
  [00584]         Willing and able to participate in all required evaluations and procedures in this
  study protocol including swallowing capsules without difficulty
  [005851         Ability to understand the purpose and risks of the study and provide signed and
  dated informed consent and authorization to use protected health information (in accordance
  with national and local subject privacy regulations)
  Exclusion Criteria
                                                       166

[005861         A life-threatening illness, medical condition or organ system dysfunction which,
in the investigator's opinion, could compromise the subject's safety, interfere with the absorption
or metabolism of Btk inhibitor PO, or put the study outcomes at undue risk
[005871         Concomitant immunotherapy, chemotherapy, radiotherapy, corticosteroids (at
dosages equivalent to prednisone > 20 mg/day ), or experimental therapy
[00588]         Concomitant use of medicines known to cause QT prolongation or torsades de
pointes
[00589]         Central nervous system (CNS) involvement by lymphoma
[005901         Creatinine > 1.5 x institutional upper limit of normal (ULN); total bilirubin > 1.5
x ULN (unless due to Gilbert's disease); and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) or alanine
aminotransferase (ALT) > 2.5 x ULN unless disease related
[005911         Lactating or pregnant
Example 13: Phase 11 Study of Btk inhibitor in R/R MCL
[00592]         The purpose of this study is to: Evaluate the efficacy of Btk inhibitor in
relapsed/refractory subjects with MCL who have not had prior bortezomib, and who have had
prior bortezomib
[00593]         The secondary objective is to evaluate the safety of a fixed daily dosing regimen
of Btk inhibitor capsules in this population.
[00594]          Study Type: Interventional
[005951         Allocation: Non-Randomized
[00596]         Endpoint Classification: Safety/Efficacy Study
[005971         Intervention Model: Parallel Assignment
[00598]         Masking: Open Label
[005991         Primary Purpose: Treatment
[00600]         Intervention: 560 mg/day of a Btk inhibitor
Primary Outcome Measures
[00601]         To Measure the Number of Participants with a Response to Study Drug [Time
Frame: Participants will be followed until progression of disease or start of another anti-cancer
treatment.]
Secondary Outcome Measures
[00602]         To Measure the Number of Participants with Adverse Events as a Measure of
Safety and Tolerability [Time Frame: Participants will be followed until progression of disease
or start of another anti-cancer treatment.]
                                                    167

[006031         To Measure the Number of Participants Pharmacokinetics to Assist in
Determining How the Body Responds to the Study Drug [Time Frame: Procedure to be
Performed During the First Month of Receiving Study Drug.]
[00604]         Patient Reported Outcomes [Time Frame: Participants will be followed until
progression of disease or start of another anti-cancer treatment.]
[00605]         To measure the number of participants reported outcomes in determining the
health related quality of life.
Inclusion Criteria:
[00606]         Men and women > 18 years of age
[00607]         ECOG performance status of < 2
[00608]         Pathologically confirmed MCL, with documentation of either overexpression of
cyclin D1 or t( 11; 14), and measurable disease on cross sectional imaging that is > 2 cm in the
longest diameter and measurable in 2 perpendicular dimensions
[00609]         Documented failure to achieve at least partial response (PR) with, or documented
disease progression disease after, the most recent treatment regimen
[00610]         At least 1, but no more than 5, prior treatment regimens for MCL (Note: Subjects
having received >2 cycles of prior treatment with bortezomib, either as a single agent or as part
of a combination therapy regimen, will be considered to be bortezomib-exposed.)
[00611]         Willing and able to participate in all required evaluations and procedures in this
study protocol including swallowing capsules without difficulty
[00612]         Ability to understand the purpose and risks of the study and provide signed and
dated informed consent and authorization to use protected health information (in accordance
with national and local subject privacy regulations)
Major exclusion criteria:
[00613]         Prior chemotherapy within 3 weeks, nitrosoureas within 6 weeks, therapeutic
anticancer antibodies within 4 weeks, radio- or toxin-immunoconjugates within 10 weeks,
radiation therapy within 3 weeks, or major surgery within 2 weeks of first dose of study drug
[00614]         Any life-threatening illness, medical condition or organ system dysfunction
which, in the investigator's opinion, could compromise the subject's safety, interfere with the
absorption or metabolism of Btk inhibitor capsules, or put the study outcomes at undue risk
[006151         Clinically significant cardiovascular disease such as uncontrolled or symptomatic
arrhythmias, congestive heart failure, or myocardial infarction within 6 months of screening, or
                                                     168

any Class 3 or 4 cardiac disease as defined by the New York Heart Association Functional
Classification
[006161         Malabsorption syndrome, disease significantly affecting gastrointestinal function,
or resection of the stomach or small bowel or ulcerative colitis, symptomatic inflammatory
bowel disease, or partial or complete bowel obstruction
[006171         Any of the following laboratory abnormalities:
            a. Absolute neutrophil count (ANC) < 750 cells/mm3 (0.75 x 109/L) unless there is
                documented bone marrow involvement
            b. Platelet count < 50,000 cells/mm3 (50 x 109/L) independent of transfusion
                support unless there is documented bone marrow involvement
            c.  Serum aspartate transaminase (AST/SGOT) or alanine transaminase
                (ALT/SGPT) > 3.0 x upper limit of normal (ULN)
            d. Creatinine > 2.0 x ULN
Example 14: Phase II Study of Btk inhibitor + ofatumumab in R/R CLL
[00618]         The purpose of this study was to determine the efficacy and safety of a fixed
dose, daily regimen of orally administered Btk inhibitor combined with ofatumumab in subjects
with relapsed/refractory CLL/SLL and related diseases
[00619]         Study Type: Interventional
[00620]         Allocation: Non-Randomized
[00621]         Endpoint Classification: Safety Study
[00622]         Intervention Model: Single Group Assignment
[00623]         Masking: Open Label
[00624]         Primary Purpose: Treatment
[006251         Intervention: 420 mg/day of a Btk inhibitor, standard dose of ofatumumab
[00626]         Applicable conditions: B-cell Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia; Small
Lymphocytic Lymphoma; Diffuse Well-Differentiated Lymphocytic Lymphoma;
Prolymphocyctic Leukemia; Richter's Transformation
Primary Outcome Measures:
[006271         Response and safety of Btk inhibitor [Time Frame: At the end of cycles 1 and 3]
[00628]         Response rate as defined by recent guidelines in Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
Secondary Outcome Measures:
[00629]         Pharmacokinetic/Pharmacodynamic assessments [Time Frame: during 1-2
cycles]
                                                   169

[006301          Pharmacodynamics of Btk inhibitor (ie, drug occupancy of Btk and effect on
biological market 1/2) of Btk inhibitor.
[006311          Tumor Response [Time Frame: at the end of Cycles 2,4 and 6 (28 days for each
cycle)]
[00632]          Overall response rate as defined by recent guidelines on CLL
Inclusion Criteria:
[006331          Subjects with histologically confirmed chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL),
small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL), prolymphocytic leukemia (PLL) as defined by WHO
classification of hematopoietic neoplasms, or Richter's transformation arising out of CLL/SLL
and satisfying > 1 of the following conditions:
[00634]          Progressive splenomegaly and/or lymphadenopathy identified by physical
examination or radiographic studies
[006351          Anemia (<11 g/dL) or thrombocytopenia (<100,000/tL) due to bone marrow
involvement
[006361          Presence of unintentional weight loss > 10% over the preceding 6 months
[006371          NCI CTCAE Grade 2 or 3 fatigue
[006381          Fevers > 100.5 degree or night sweats for > 2 weeks without evidence of
infection
[006391          Progressive lymphocytosis with an increase of > 50% over a 2 month period or
an anticipated doubling time of < 6 months
[00640]          Need for cytoreduction prior to stem cell transplant
[00641]          Subjects must have failed > 2 prior therapies for CLL including a nucleoside
analog or > 2 prior therapies not including nucleoside analog if there is a contraindication to
such therapy
[00642]          > 10% expression of CD20 on tumor cells
[00643]          ECOG performance status < 2
[00644]          Life expectancy > 12 weeks
[006451          Subjects must have organ and marrow function as defined below:
[00646]          Absolute neutrophil count (ANC) > 1000/tL in the absence of bone marrow
involvement Platelets > 30,000/tL Total bilirubin < 1.5 x institutional upper limit of normal
unless due to Gilbert's disease AST(SGOT) < 2.5 x institutional upper limit of normal unless due
to infiltration of the liver Creatinine < 2.0 mg/dL OR creatinine clearance > 50 mL/min
[006471          No history of prior anaphylactic reaction to rituximab
                                                     170

[006481          No history of prior exposure to ofatumumab
[00649]          Age > 18 years
[006501          Body weight > 40 kg
[006511          Able to swallow capsules without difficulty and no history of malabsorption
syndrome, disease significantly affecting gastrointestinal function, or resection of the stomach or
small bowel or ulcerative colitis, symptomatic inflammatory bowel disease, or partial or
complete bowel obstruction
Exclusion Criteria:
[00652]          A life-threatening illness, medical condition or organ system dysfunction which,
in the investigator's opinion, could compromise the subject's safety, interfere with the absorption
or metabolism of Btk inhibitor PO, or put the study outcomes at undue risk
[00653]          Any anticancer immunotherapy, chemotherapy, radiotherapy, or experimental
therapy within 4 weeks before first dose of study drug. Corticosteroids for disease-related
symptoms are allowed provided 1 week washout occurs.
[00654]          Active central nervous system (CNS) involvement by lymphoma
[006551          Major surgery within 4 weeks before first dose of study drug
[00656]          Lactating or pregnant
[006571          History of prior malignancy, except for adequately treated basal cell or squamous
cell skin cancer, in situ cervical cancer, or other cancer from which the subject has been disease
free for at least 2 years or which will not limit survival to < 2 years
[00658]          History of Grade > 2 toxicity (other than alopecia) continuing from prior
anticancer therapy.
Results
[006591          6 Patients have been evaluated for DLT through end of cycle 2. 0 DLTs occurred
in these patients.
[00660]          4 patients have had end of cycle 3 scans and blood counts. 3 of 4 are responder
per IWG criteria. Our response rate is 75% for these pts.
Example 15: Phase II Study of Btk inhibitor + BR or FCR in R/R CLL
[00661]          The purpose of this study is to establish the safety of orally administered Btk
inhibitor in combination with fludarabine/cyclophosphamide/rituximab (FCR) and
bendamustine/rituximab (BR) in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)/small
lymphocytic lymphoma(SLL).
[00662]          Study Type: Interventional
                                                      171

[006631          Allocation: Non-Randomized
[00664]          Endpoint Classification: Safety Study
[006651          Intervention Model: Single Group Assignment
[006661          Masking: Open Label
[006671          Primary Purpose: Treatment
[006681          Intervention: 420 mg/day of a Btk inhibitor, standard FCR or BR regimen
[006691          Applicable conditions: B-cell Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia; Small
Lymphocytic Lymphoma; Diffuse Well-differentiated Lymphocytic Lymphoma
Primary Outcome Measures:
[006701          To measure the number of participants with prolonged hematologic toxicity
[Time Frame: 8 weeks from first dose]
Secondary Outcome Measures:
[006711          To measure the number of participants with adverse events as a measure of safety
and tolerability [Time Frame: For 30 days after the last dose of Btk inhibitor]
[00672]          To measure the number of patients who respond to treatment by measuring the
increase or decrease of disease in the lymph nodes and/or blood test results [Time Frame:
Patients may remain on study until the last subject enrolled completes a maximum of 12 cycles
of Btk inhibitor. Any subjects still receiving Btk inhibitor at that time may enroll in a long-term
follow-up study to continue to receive Btk inhibitor capsules]
Inclusion Criteria:
[006731          Histologically confirmed CLL or SLL and satisfying at least 1 of the following
criteria for requiring treatment:
[00674]          Progressive splenomegaly and/or lymphadenopathy identified by physical
examination or radiographic studies
[006751          Anemia (<11 g/dL) or thrombocytopenia (<100,000/tL) due to bone marrow
involvement
[00676]          Presence of unintentional weight loss > 10% over the preceding 6 months
[006771          NCI CTCAE Grade 2 or 3 fatigue
[00678]          Fevers > 100.5' or night sweats for > 2 weeks without evidence of infection
[006791          Progressive lymphocytosis with an increase of > 50% over a 2 month period or
an anticipated doubling time of < 6 months
[00680]          1 to 3 prior treatment regimens for CLL/SLL
[00681]          ECOG performance status of < 1
                                                     172

[006821         > 18 years of age
[006831         Willing and able to participate in all required evaluations and procedures in this
study protocol including swallowing capsules without difficulty
[00684]         Ability to understand the purpose and risks of the study and provide signed and
dated informed consent and authorization to use protected health information (in accordance
with national and local subject privacy regulations)
Exclusion Criteria:
[006851         Any chemotherapy, therapeutic antineoplastic antibodies (not including radio- or
toxin immunoconjugates), radiation therapy, or experimental antineoplastic therapy within 4
weeks of first dose of study drug Radio- or toxin-conjugated antibody therapy within 10 weeks
of first dose of study drug
[00686]         Concomitant use of medicines known to cause QT prolongation or torsades de
pointes
[006871         Transformed lymphoma or Richter's transformation
[00688]         Any life-threatening illness, medical condition or organ system dysfunction
which, in the investigator's opinion, could compromise the subject's safety, interfere with the
absorption or metabolism of Btk inhibitor PO, or put the study outcomes at undue risk
[006891         Any of the following laboratory abnormalities:
            a. Absolute neutrophil count (ANC) < 1000 cells/mm3 (1.0 x 109/L)
            b. Platelet count < 50,000/mm3 (50 x 109/L)
            c.   Serum aspartate transaminase (AST/SGOT) or alanine transaminase
                (ALT/SGPT) > 3.0 x upper limit of normal (ULN)
            d. Creatinine > 2.0 x ULN or creatinine clearance < 40 mL/min
Example 16: Phase II Study of Btk inhibitor in R/R DLBCL
[00690]         The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of Btk inhibitor in
relapsed/refractory de novo activated B-cell (ABC) and germinal-cell B-Cell (GCB) Diffuse
Large B-cell Lymphoma (DLBCL).
[00691]          Study Type: Interventional
[00692]         Allocation: Non-Randomized
[00693]         Endpoint Classification: Safety Study
[00694]         Intervention Model: Single Group Assignment
[006951         Masking: Open Label
[00696]         Primary Purpose: Treatment
                                                     173

[006971         Intervention: 560 mg/day Btk inhibitor
Primary Outcome Measures:
[006981         To measure the number of patients with a response to study drug [Time Frame:
24 weeks from first dose]
[006991         Participants will be followed until progression of disease or start of another anti
cancer treatment.
Secondary Outcome Measures:
[007001         To measure the number of patients with adverse events as a measure of safety
and tolerability. [Time Frame: For 30 days after the last dose of Btk inhibitor]
[007011         Participants will be followed until progression of the disease or start of another
anticancer treatment.
[00702]         To measure the number of participants pharmacokinetics to assist in determining
how the body responses to the study drug. [Time Frame: Procedure will be performed during the
first month of receiving study drug.]
Inclusion Criteria:
[00703]         Men and women > 18 years of age.
[00704]         Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status of < 2.
[007051         Pathologically confirmed de novo DLBCL; subjects must have available archival
tissue for central review to be eligible.
[00706]         Relapsed or refractory disease, defined as either: 1) recurrence of disease after a
complete remission (CR), or 2) partial response (PR), stable disease (SD), or progressive disease
(PD) at completion of the treatment regimen preceding entry to the study (residual
disease): Subjects must have previously received an appropriate first-line treatment regimen.
Subjects with suspected residual disease after the treatment regimen directly preceding study
enrollment must have biopsy demonstration of residual DLBCL. Subjects who have not received
high dose chemotherapy/autologous stem cell transplant (HDT/ASCT) must be ineligible for
HDT/ASCT as defined by meeting any of the following criteria: Age > 70 years ,Diffuse lung
capacity for carbon monoxide (DLCO) < 50% by pulmonary function test (PFT), Left
ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) < 50% by multiple gated
acquisition(MUGA)/echocardiograph (ECHO), Other organ dysfunction or comorbidities
precluding the use of HDT/ASCT on the basis of unacceptable risk of treatment-related
morbidity, Subject refusal of HDT/ASCT.
                                                     174

[007071         Subjects must have > 1 measurable (> 2 cm in longest dimension) disease sites on
computed tomography (CT) scan.
Exclusion Criteria:
[00708]         Transformed DLBCL or DLBCL with coexistent histologies (eg, follicular or
mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue [MALT] lymphoma)
[007091         Primary mediastinal (thymic) large B-cell lymphoma (PMBL)
[00710]         Known central nervous system (CNS) lymphoma
[007111         Any chemotherapy, external beam radiation therapy, or anticancer antibodies
within 3 weeks of the first dose of study drug
[00712]         Radio- or toxin-immunoconjugates within 10 weeks of the first dose of study
drug
[00713]         Major surgery within 2 weeks of first dose of study drug
[00714]         Any life-threatening illness, medical condition or organ system dysfunction
which, in the investigator's opinion, could compromise the subject's safety, or put the study
outcomes at undue risk
[007151         Clinically significant cardiovascular disease such as uncontrolled or symptomatic
arrhythmias, congestive heart failure, or myocardial infarction within 6 months of screening, or
any Class 3 or 4 cardiac disease as defined by the New York Heart Association Functional
Classification
[00716]         Unable to swallow capsules or malabsorption syndrome, disease significantly
affecting gastrointestinal function, or resection of the stomach or small bowel or ulcerative
colitis, symptomatic inflammatory bowel disease, or partial or complete bowel obstruction
[007171         Any of the following laboratory abnormalities:
            a. Absolute neutrophil count (ANC) < 750 cells/mm3 (0.75 x 109/L) unless there is
                documented bone marrow involvement
            b. Platelet count < 50,000 cells/mm3 (50 x 109/L) independent of transfusion
                support unless there is documented bone marrow involvement
            c.  Serum aspartate transaminase (AST/SGOT) or alanine transaminase
                (ALT/SGPT) > 3.0 upper limit of normal (ULN)
            d. Creatinine > 2.0 x ULN
Example 17: Assay of Drug Combinations
[00718]         Combinations of a Btk inhibitor and additional cancer treatment agents were
assayed using DoHH2 cells.
                                                     175

    [007191        DOHH2 is a DLBCL (diffuse large B-cell lymphoma) cell line, from a
    transformed follicular lymphoma patient. It is moderately sensitive to a Btk inhibitor.
    [00720]        The Btk inhibitor was incubated with other cancer drugs for 2 days. Assay was an
    alamar blue assay.
  5 [00721]        The combinations were:
               a. Btk inhibitor and Gemicitabine;
               b. Btk inhibitor and Dexamethasone;
               c.  Btk inhibitor and Lenalinomide;
               d. Btk inhibitor and R-406;
 to            e.  Btk inhibitor and Temsirolimus;
               f. Btk inhibitor and Carboplatin;
               g. Btk inhibitor and Bortezomib; and
               h. Btk inhibitor and Doxorubicin.
    [00722]        Results are presented in figures 28-31.
 [5 Example 18: Assay of Drug Combinations
    [007231        Combinations of a Btk inhibitor and additional cancer treatment agents were
    assayed using TMD8 cells.
    [00724]        TMD8 is a NF-kB signalling-dependent ABC-DLBCL cell line. It is sensitive to
    BTK inhibitors alone at low nanomolar concentrations (G150 ~1-3 nM). A Btk inhibitor was
 !o incubated with other cancer drugs for 2 days. Assay was an alamar blue assay.
    [00725]        The combinations were:
               a. Btk inhibitor and CAL- 101;
               b. Btk inhibitor and Lenalinomide;
               c.  Btk inhibitor and R-406;
25             d. Btk inhibitor and Bortezomib;
               e.  Btk inhibitor and Vincristine;
               f. Btk inhibitor and Taxol;
               g. Btk inhibitor and Fludarabine; and
               h. Btk inhibitor and Doxorubicin.
30  [00726]        Results are presented in figures 32-39.
    Example 19: Clinical Trial of Btk Inhibitor in Combination with BR
    [00727]        A clinical trial was performed to determine the effects of combining a Btk
    inhibitor with BR (bendamustine and rituximab). The Btk inhibitor was administered. Following
                                                       176

   an increase in the concentration of lymphoid cells in the peripheral blood, BR was administered.
   Initial results indicated that the combination of the Btk inhibitor and BR resulted in substantially
   no lymphoid cells in the peripheral blood.
 5 Example 20: Clinical Trial of Btk Inhibitor in Combination with Ofatumumab
   [007281          A clinical trial was performed to determine the effects of combining a Btk
   inhibitor with ofatumumab. The Btk inhibitor was administered. Following an increase in the
   concentration of lymphoid cells in the peripheral blood, ofatumumab was administered. Initial
   results indicated that the combination of the Btk inhibitor and ofatumumab resulted in a decrease
1o in lymphoid cells in the peripheral blood.
                                                        177

    CLAIMS:
     1.       A method for treating a hematological malignancy in an individual in need thereof,
     comprising:
                 a.  administering to the individual an amount of an irreversible Btk inhibitor
                     sufficient to mobilize a plurality of cells from the malignancy; and
  5              b. analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells.
    2.        The method of claim 1, wherein the amount of the irreversible Btk inhibitor is sufficient
    to induce lymphocytosis of a plurality of cells from the malignancy.
    3.        The method of claim 2, wherein the malignancy is CLL.
    4.        The method of claim 1, wherein treating the hematological malignancy comprises
 t0 managing the hematological malignancy.
    5.        The method of claim 1, wherein the hematological malignancy is a B-cell malignancy.
    6.        The method of claim 1, wherein the hematological malignancy is a leukemia,
    lymphoproliferative disorder, or myeloid.
    7.        The method of claim 1, wherein the mobilized cells are myeloid cells or lymphoid cells.
15  8.        The method of claim 1, wherein analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells comprises
    measuring the peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells.
    9.        The method of claim 8, further comprising administering a second cancer treatment
    regimen after the peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells increases as
    compared to the concentration before administration of the Btk inhibitor.
20  10.       The method of claim 8, wherein administering the second cancer treatment regimen
    occurs after a subsequent decrease in peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality
    of cells.
    11.       The method of claim 1, wherein analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells comprises
    measuring the duration of an increase in the peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized
25  plurality of cells as compared to the concentration before administration of the Btk inhibitor.
                                                          178

    12.     The method of claim 11, further comprising administering a second cancer treatment
    regimen after the peripheral blood concentration of the mobilized plurality of cells has increased
    for a predetermined length of time.
    13.     The method of claim 1, wherein analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells comprises
  5 counting the number of mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood.
    14.     The method of claim 13, further comprising administering a second cancer treatment
    regimen after the number of mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood increases as
    compared to the number before administration of the Btk inhibitor.
    15.     The method of claim 14, wherein administering the second cancer treatment regimen
 to occurs after a subsequent decrease in the number of mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral
    blood.
    16.     The method of claim 1, wherein analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells comprises
    measuring the duration of an increase in the number of mobilized plurality of cells in the
    peripheral blood as compared to the number before administration of the Btk inhibitor.
  5 17.     The method of claim 16, further comprising administering a second cancer treatment
    regimen after the number of mobilized plurality of cells in the peripheral blood has increased for
    a predetermined length of time.
    18.     The method of claim 1, wherein analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells comprises
    preparing a biomarker profile for a population of cells isolated from the plurality of cells,
20  wherein the biomarker profile indicates the expression of a biomarker, the expression level of a
    biomarker, mutations in a biomarker, or the presence of a biomarker.
    19.     The method of claim 18, wherein the biomarker is any cytogenetic, cell surface
    molecular or protein or RNA expression marker.
    20.     The method of claim 18, wherein the biomarker is: ZAP70; t(14,18); J-2 microglobulin;
25  p53 mutational status; ATM mutational status; del(17)p; del(11)q; del(6)q; CD5; CD1 Ic; CD19;
    CD20; CD22; CD25; CD38; CD103; CD138; secreted, surface or cytoplasmic immunoglobulin
    expression; VH mutational status; or a combination thereof.
                                                       179

    21.      The method of claim 18, further comprising providing a second cancer treatment
    regimen based on the biomarker profile.
    22.      The method of claim 18, further comprising not administering based on the biomarker
    profile.
  5 23.      The method of claim 18, further comprising predicting the efficacy of a second cancer
    treatment regimen based on the biomarker profile.
    24.      The method of claim 1, wherein the hematological malignancy is a chronic lymphocytic
    leukemia (CLL), small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL), high risk CLL, or a non-CLL/SLL
    lymphoma.
 [o 25.      The method of claim 1, wherein the hematological malignancy is follicular lymphoma,
    diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), mantle cell lymphoma, Waldenstrom's
    macroglobulinemia, multiple myeloma, marginal zone lymphoma, Burkitt's lymphoma, non
    Burkitt high grade B cell lymphoma, or extranodal marginal zone B cell lymphoma.
    26.      The method of claim 1, wherein the hematological malignancy is acute or chronic
 [5 myelogenous (or myeloid) leukemia, myelodysplastic syndrome, or acute lymphoblastic
    leukemia.
    27.      The method of claim 1, wherein the hematological malignancy is relapsed or refractory
    diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), relapsed or refractory mantle cell lymphoma, relapsed
    or refractory follicular lymphoma, relapsed or refractory CLL; relapsed or refractory SLL;
20  relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma.
    28.      The method of claim 1, wherein the Btk inhibitor forms a covalent bond with a
    cysteine sidechain of a Bruton's tyrosine kinase, a Bruton's tyrosine kinase homolog, or a Btk
    tyrosine kinase cysteine homolog.
    29.      The method of claim 1, wherein the irreversible Btk inhibitor is (R)-1-(3-(4-amino-3-(4
25  phenoxyphenyl)- 1H-pyrazolo [3,4-d]pyrimidin- 1-yl)piperidin- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one.
    30.      The method of claim 1, wherein the amount of the irreversible Btk inhibitor is from 300
    mg/day up to, and including, 1000 mg/day.
                                                       180

    31.     The method of claim 1, wherein the amount of the irreversible Btk inhibitor is from 420
    mg/day up to, and including, 840 mg/day.
    32.     The method of claim 1, wherein the amount of the irreversible Btk inhibitor is about 420
    mg/day, about 560 mg/day, or about 840 mg/day.
  5 33.     The method of claim 1, wherein the amount of the irreversible Btk inhibitor is about 420
    mg/day.
    34.     The method of claim 1, wherein the AUCO- 24 of the Btk inhibitor is between about 150
    and about 3500 ng*h/mL.
    35.     The method of claim 34, wherein AUCO- 24 of the Btk inhibitor is between about 500 and
 to about 1100 ng*h/mL.
    36.     The method of claim 1, wherein the Btk inhibitor is administered orally.
    37.     The method of claim 1, wherein the Btk inhibitor is administered once per day, twice per
    day, or three times per day.
    38.     The method of claim 1, wherein the Btk inhibitor is administered until disease
 [5 progression, unacceptable toxicity, or individual choice.
    39.     The method of claim 1, wherein the Btk inhibitor is administered daily until disease
    progression, unacceptable toxicity, or individual choice.
    40.     The method of claim 1, wherein the Btk inhibitor is administered every other day until
    disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or individual choice.
20  41.     The method of claim 1, wherein the Btk inhibitor is a front line therapy, second line
    therapy, third line therapy, fourth line therapy, fifth line therapy, or sixth line therapy.
    42.     The method of claim 1, wherein the Btk inhibitor treats a refractory hematological
    malignancy.
    43.     The method of claim 1, wherein the Btk inhibitor is a maintenance therapy.
                                                          181

    44.     The method of claim 9, 10, 12, 14, 15, 17, or 21, wherein the second cancer treatment
    regimen comprises a chemotherapeutic agent, a steroid, an immunotherapeutic agent, a targeted
    therapy, or a combination thereof.
    45.     The method of claim 9, 10, 12, 14, 15, 17, or 21, wherein the second cancer treatment
  5 regimen comprises a B cell receptor pathway inhibitor.
    46.     The method of claim 45, wherein the B cell receptor pathway inhibitor is a CD79A
    inhibitor, a CD79B inhibitor, a CD19 inhibitor, a Lyn inhibitor, a Syk inhibitor, a P13K
    inhibitor, a Blnk inhibitor, a PLCy inhibitor, a PKCP inhibitor, or a combination thereof.
    47.     The method of claim 9, 10, 12, 14, 15, 17, or 21, wherein the second cancer treatment
 to regimen comprises an antibody, B cell receptor signaling inhibitor, a P13K inhibitor, an IAP
    inhibitor, an mTOR inhibitor, a radioimmunotherapeutic, a DNA damaging agent, a proteosome
    inhibitor, a histone deacetylase inhibitor, a protein kinase inhibitor, a hedgehog inhibitor, an
    Hsp90 inhibitor, a telomerase inhibitor, a Jakl/2 inhibitor, a protease inhibitor, a PKC inhibitor,
    a PARP inhibitor, or a combination thereof.
 [5 48.     The method of claim 9, 10, 12, 14, 15, 17, or 21, wherein the second cancer treatment
    regimen comprises chlorambucil, ifosphamide, doxorubicin, mesalazine, thalidomide,
    lenalidomide, temsirolimus, everolimus, fludarabine, fostamatinib, paclitaxel, docetaxel,
    ofatumumab, rituximab, dexamethasone, prednisone, CAL-101, ibritumomab, tositumomab,
    bortezomib, pentostatin, endostatin, or a combination thereof.
20  49.     The method of claim 9, 10, 12, 14, 15, 17, or 21, wherein the second cancer treatment
    regimen comprises cyclophosphamide, hydroxydaunorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone, and
    optionally, rituximab.
    50.     The method of claim 9, 10, 12, 14, 15, 17, or 21, wherein the second cancer treatment
    regimen comprises bendamustine, and rituximab.
25  51.     The method of claim 9, 10, 12, 14, 15, 17, or 21, wherein the second cancer treatment
    regimen comprises fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, and rituximab.
    52.     The method of claim 9, 10, 12, 14, 15, 17, or 21, wherein the second cancer treatment
    regimen comprises cyclophosphamide, vincristine, and prednisone, and optionally, rituximab.
                                                         182

    53.         The method of claim 9, 10, 12, 14, 15, 17, or 21, wherein the second cancer treatment
    regimen comprises etoposide, doxorubicin, vinristine, cyclophosphamide, prednisolone, and
    optionally, rituximab.
    54.         The method of claim 9, 10, 12, 14, 15, 17, or 21, wherein the second cancer treatment
  5 regimen comprises dexamethasone and lenalidomide.
    55.         The method of claim 1, wherein the irreversible Btk inhibitor has the following structure:
                        L-Ar
         NH2
     N           \
         IlN
         N         N
                     Z       R6
                     R,      R7 Formula (D)
    wherein:
    La is CH 2, 0, NH or S;
 to Ar is a substituted or unsubstituted aryl, or a substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl;
    Y is an optionally substituted group selected from among alkyl, heteroalkyl, cycloalkyl,
    heterocycloalkyl, aryl, and heteroaryl;
    Z is C(=0), OC(=0), NHC(=0), C(=S), S(=0)x, OS(=0)x, NHS(=0)x, where x is 1 or 2;
    R 6 , R 7 , and Rs are each independently selected from among H, substituted or unsubstituted C1
15  C 4 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C4heteroalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3
    C 6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C2 -C 6heterocycloalkyl, C1 -C6 alkoxyalkyl, C1
    Csalkylaminoalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 -C6 cycloalkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
    aryl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl, substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C 4alkyl(aryl),
    substituted or unsubstituted C 1 -C4 alkyl(heteroaryl), substituted or unsubstituted C1 -C 4alkyl(C 3
20  Cscycloalkyl), or substituted or unsubstituted Ci-C 4 alkyl(C 2-Csheterocycloalkyl); or
    R7 and Rs taken together form a bond; and pharmaceutically active metabolites, or
    pharmaceutically acceptable solvates, pharmaceutically acceptable salts, or pharmaceutically
    acceptable prodrugs thereof.
    56.         The method of Claim 55, wherein La is 0.
                                                           183

    57.     The method of Claim 55, wherein Ar is phenyl.
    58.     The method of Claim 55, wherein: Z is C(=O), NHC(=O), or S(=0) 2 .
    59.     The method of Claim 55, wherein:
            each of R7 and Rs is H.
  5 60.     The method of Claim 55, wherein:
            Y is a 4-, 5-, 6-, or 7-membered cycloalkyl ring; or
            Y is a 4-, 5-, 6-, or 7-membered heterocycloalkyl ring.
    61.     A method for treating relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in an individual
    in need thereof, comprising: administering to the individual a therapeutically-effective amount
 t0 of (R)-1-(3-(4-amino-3-(4-phenoxyphenyl)-1H-pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidin-1-yl)piperidin-1
    yl)prop-2-en-i-one.
    62.     The method of claim 61, wherein the non-Hodgkin's lymphoma is relapsed or refractory
    diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), relapsed or refractory mantle cell lymphoma, or
    relapsed or refractory follicular lymphoma.
 [5 63.     The method of claim 61, wherein the amount of (R)-1-(3-(4-amino-3-(4
    phenoxyphenyl)- 1H-pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidin- 1-yl)piperidin-1 -yl)prop-2-en-1-one is from 300
    mg/day up to, and including, 1000 mg/day.
    64.     The method of claim 61, wherein the amount of (R)-1-(3-(4-amino-3-(4
    phenoxyphenyl)- 1H-pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidin- 1-yl)piperidin-1 -yl)prop-2-en-1-one is from 420
20  mg/day up to, and including, 840 mg/day.
    65.     The method of claim 61, wherein the amount of (R)-1-(3-(4-amino-3-(4
    phenoxyphenyl)- 1H-pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidin- 1-yl)piperidin-1 -yl)prop-2-en-1-one is about 420
    mg/day, about 560 mg/day, or about 840 mg/day.
    66.     The method of claim 61, wherein the amount of (R)-1-(3-(4-amino-3-(4
25  phenoxyphenyl)- 1H-pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidin- 1-yl)piperidin-1 -yl)prop-2-en-1-one is about 420
    mg/day.
                                                       184

    67.     The method of claim 61, wherein the AUCO- 2 4 of (R)-1-(3-(4-amino-3-(4
    phenoxyphenyl)- 1H-pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidin- 1-yl)piperidin-1 -yl)prop-2-en-1-one is between
    about 150 and about 3500 ng*h/mL.
    68.     The method of claim 67, wherein AUCO- 2 4 of the Btk inhibitor is between about 500 and
  5 about 1100 ng*h/mL.
    69.     The method of claim 61, wherein (R)- 1-(3 -(4-amino-3 -(4-phenoxyphenyl)- 1H
    pyrazolo [3,4-d]pyrimidin- 1-yl)piperidin- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one is administered orally.
    70.     The method of claim 61, wherein (R)- 1-(3 -(4-amino-3 -(4-phenoxyphenyl)- 1H
    pyrazolo [3,4-d]pyrimidin- 1-yl)piperidin- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one is administered once per day,
 t0 twice per day, or three times per day.
    71.     The method of claim 61, wherein (R)- 1-(3 -(4-amino-3 -(4-phenoxyphenyl)- 1H
    pyrazolo [3,4-d]pyrimidin- 1-yl)piperidin- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one is administered until disease
    progression, unacceptable toxicity, or individual choice.
    72.     The method of claim 61, wherein (R)- 1-(3 -(4-amino-3 -(4-phenoxyphenyl)- 1H
 t5 pyrazolo [3,4-d]pyrimidin- 1-yl)piperidin- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one is administered until disease
    progression, unacceptable toxicity, or individual choice.
    73.     The method of claim 61, wherein (R)- 1-(3 -(4-amino-3 -(4-phenoxyphenyl)- 1H
    pyrazolo [3,4-d]pyrimidin- 1-yl)piperidin- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one is administered daily until disease
    progression, unacceptable toxicity, or individual choice.
20  74.     The method of claim 61, wherein (R)- 1-(3 -(4-amino-3 -(4-phenoxyphenyl)- 1H
    pyrazolo [3,4-d]pyrimidin- 1-yl)piperidin- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one is administered every other day
    until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or individual choice.
    75.     The method of claim 61, wherein (R)- 1-(3 -(4-amino-3 -(4-phenoxyphenyl)- 1H
    pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidin-1-yl)piperidin-1-yl)prop-2-en-1-one is a second line therapy, third line
25  therapy, fourth line therapy, fifth line therapy, or sixth line therapy.
    76.     The method of claim 61, wherein the Btk inhibitor is a maintenance therapy.
    77.     The method of claim 61, further comprising administering a second cancer treatment
    regimen.
                                                          185

    78.     The method of claim 77, wherein the second cancer treatment regimen is administered
    after mobilization of a plurality of lymphoid cells from the non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
    79.     The method of claim 77, wherein the second cancer treatment regimen is administered
    after lymphocytosis of a plurality of lymphoid cells from the non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
  5 80.     The method of claim 77, wherein the second cancer treatment regimen comprises a
    chemotherapeutic agent, a steroid, an immunotherapeutic agent, a targeted therapy, or a
    combination thereof.
    81.     The method of claim 77, wherein the second cancer treatment regimen comprises a B
    cell receptor pathway inhibitor.
 to 82.     The method of claim 81, wherein the B cell receptor pathway inhibitor is a CD79A
    inhibitor, a CD79B inhibitor, a CD19 inhibitor, a Lyn inhibitor, a Syk inhibitor, a P13K
    inhibitor, a Blnk inhibitor, a PLCy inhibitor, a PKCP inhibitor, or a combination thereof.
    83.     The method of claim 77, wherein the second cancer treatment regimen comprises an
    antibody, B cell receptor signaling inhibitor, a P13K inhibitor, an IAP inhibitor, an mTOR
 [5 inhibitor, a radioimmunotherapeutic, a DNA damaging agent, a proteosome inhibitor, a histone
    deacetylase inhibitor, a protein kinase inhibitor, a hedgehog inhibitor, an Hsp90 inhibitor, a
    telomerase inhibitor, a Jakl/2 inhibitor, a protease inhibitor, a PKC inhibitor, a PARP inhibitor,
    or a combination thereof.
    84.     The method of claim 77, wherein the second cancer treatment regimen comprises
20  chlorambucil, ifosphamide, doxorubicin, mesalazine, thalidomide, lenalidomide, temsirolimus,
    everolimus, fludarabine, fostamatinib, paclitaxel, docetaxel, ofatumumab, rituximab,
    dexamethasone, prednisone, CAL-101, ibritumomab, tositumomab, bortezomib, pentostatin,
    endostatin, or a combination thereof.
    85.     The method of claim 77, wherein the second cancer treatment regimen comprises
25  cyclophosphamide, hydroxydaunorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone, and optionally, rituximab.
    86.     The method of claim 77, wherein the second cancer treatment regimen comprises
    bendamustine, and rituximab.
                                                         186

    87.     The method of claim 77, wherein the second cancer treatment regimen comprises
    fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, and rituximab.
    88.     The method of claim 77, wherein the second cancer treatment regimen comprises
    cyclophosphamide, vincristine, and prednisone, and optionally, rituximab.
  5 89.     The method of claim 77, wherein the second cancer treatment regimen comprises
    etoposide, doxorubicin, vinristine, cyclophosphamide, prednisolone, and optionally, rituximab.
    90.     The method of claim 77, wherein the second cancer treatment regimen comprises
    dexamethasone and lenalidomide.
    91.     A method for treating diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, activated B cell-like subtype
 t0 (ABC-DLBCL), in an individual in need thereof, comprising: administering to the individual an
    irreversible Btk inhibitor in an amount from 300 mg/day up to, and including, 1000 mg/day.
    92.     The method of claim 91, further comprising diagnosing the individual with diffuse large
    B-cell lymphoma, activated B cell-like subtype (ABC-DLBCL), by determining the gene
    sequence of one or more biomarkers in a plurality of lymphoid cells isolated from the diffuse
 [5 large B-cell lymphoma.
    93.     The method of claim 91, wherein the irreversible Btk inhibitor is (R)-1-(3-(4-amino-3
    (4-phenoxyphenyl)- 1H-pyrazolo [3,4-d]pyrimidin- 1-yl)piperidin- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one.
    94.     The method of claim 91, wherein the Activated B cell-like (ABC) subtype of diffuse
    large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is characterized by a CD79B mutation.
20  95.     The method of claim 94, wherein the CD79B mutation is a mutation of the
    immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif (ITAM) signaling module.
    96.     The method of claim 94, wherein the CD79B mutation is a missense mutation of the first
    immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif (ITAM) tyrosine.
    97.     The method of claim 94, wherein the CD79B mutation increases surface BCR expression
25  and attenuates Lyn kinase activity.
    98.     The method of claim 91, wherein the Activated B cell-like (ABC) subtype of diffuse
    large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is characterized by a CD79A mutation.
                                                        187

    99.     The method of claim 98, wherein the CD79A mutation is in the immunoreceptor
    tyrosine-based activation motif (ITAM) signaling module.
    100.    The method of claim 98, wherein the CD79A mutation is a splice-donor-site mutation of
    the immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motif (ITAM) signaling module.
  5 101.    The method of claim 98, wherein the CD79A mutation deletes the immunoreceptor
    tyrosine-based activation motif (ITAM) signaling module.
    102.    The method of claim 91, wherein the Activated B cell-like (ABC) subtype of diffuse
    large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is characterized by a mutation in MyD88, A20, or a
    combination thereof.
 to 103.    The method of claim 102, wherein the MyD88 mutation is the amino acid substitution
    L265P in the MYD88 Toll/IL-i receptor (TIR) domain.
    104.    The method of claim 91, wherein the amount of the irreversible Btk inhibitor is from 420
    mg/day up to, and including, 840 mg/day.
    105.    The method of claim 91, wherein the amount of the irreversible Btk inhibitor is about
 [5 420 mg/day, about 560 mg/day, or about 840 mg/day.
    106.    The method of claim 91, wherein the amount of the irreversible Btk inhibitor is about
    420 mg/day.
    107.    The method of claim 91, wherein the AUCO- 24 of the Btk inhibitor is between about 150
    and about 3500 ng*h/mL.
20  108.    The method of claim 107, wherein AUCO- 24 of the Btk inhibitor is between about 500 and
    about 1100 ng*h/mL.
    109.    The method of claim 91, wherein the irreversible Btk inhibitor is administered orally.
    110.    The method of claim 91, wherein the irreversible Btk inhibitor is administered daily until
    disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or individual choice.
25  111.    The method of claim 91, wherein the irreversible Btk inhibitor is administered every
    other day until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or individual choice.
                                                       188

    112.    The method of claim 91, wherein the irreversible Btk inhibitor is a front line therapy,
    second line therapy, third line therapy, fourth line therapy, fifth line therapy, or sixth line
    therapy.
    113.    The method of claim 91, wherein the irreversible Btk inhibitor treats a refractory
  5 hematological malignancy.
    114.    The method of claim 91, wherein the irreversible Btk inhibitor is a maintenance therapy.
    115.    The method of claim 91, further comprising administering at least one additional cancer
    treatment regimen.
    116.    The method of claim 115, wherein the additional cancer treatment regimen comprises a
 t0 chemotherapeutic agent, an immunotherapeutic agent, a steroid, radiation therapy, a targeted
    therapy, or a combination thereof.
    117.    The method of claim 116, wherein the second cancer treatment regimen comprises an
    antibody, B cell receptor signaling inhibitor, a P13K inhibitor, an IAP inhibitor, an mTOR
    inhibitor, a radioimmunotherapeutic, a DNA damaging agent, a proteosome inhibitor, a histone
 [5 deacetylase inhibitor, a protein kinase inhibitor, a hedgehog inhibitor, an Hsp90 inhibitor, a
    telomerase inhibitor, a Jakl/2 inhibitor, a protease inhibitor, a PKC inhibitor, a PARP inhibitor,
    or a combination thereof.
    118.    A method of determining a cancer treatment regimen for an individual with a
    hematological malignancy, comprising:
20              a. administering to the individual an amount of an irreversible Btk inhibitor
                    sufficient to mobilize a plurality of cells from the malignancy;
                b. analyzing the mobilized plurality of cells; and
                c.  selecting a cancer treatment regimen.
    119.    The method of claim 118, wherein the cancer treatment regimen comprises a
25  chemotherapeutic agent, a steroid, an immunotherapeutic agent, a targeted therapy, or a
    combination thereof.
                                                         189

    120.    The method of claim 118, wherein the cancer treatment regimen comprises a B cell
    receptor pathway inhibitor.
    121.    The method of claim 118, wherein the cancer treatment regimen comprises a CD79A
    inhibitor, a CD79B inhibitor, a CD19 inhibitor, a Lyn inhibitor, a Syk inhibitor, a P13K
  5 inhibitor, a Blnk inhibitor, a PLCy inhibitor, a PKC inhibitor, or a combination thereof.
    122.    The method of claim 118, wherein the cancer treatment regimen comprises an antibody,
    B cell receptor signaling inhibitor, a P13K inhibitor, an IAP inhibitor, an mTOR inhibitor, a
    radioimmunotherapeutic, a DNA damaging agent, a proteosome inhibitor, a histone deacetylase
    inhibitor, a protein kinase inhibitor, a hedgehog inhibitor, an Hsp90 inhibitor, a telomerase
 to inhibitor, a Jakl/2 inhibitor, a protease inhibitor, a PKC inhibitor, a PARP inhibitor, or a
    combination thereof.
    123.    The method of claim 118, wherein the cancer treatment regimen comprises chlorambucil,
    ifosphamide, doxorubicin, mesalazine, thalidomide, lenalidomide, temsirolimus, everolimus,
    fludarabine, fostamatinib, paclitaxel, docetaxel, ofatumumab, rituximab, dexamethasone,
  5 prednisone, CAL-101, ibritumomab, tositumomab, bortezomib, pentostatin, endostatin, or a
    combination thereof.
    124.    The method of claim 118, wherein the cancer treatment regimen comprises
    cyclophosphamide, hydroxydaunorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone, and optionally, rituximab.
    125.    The method of claim 118, wherein the cancer treatment regimen comprises
20  bendamustine, and rituximab.
    126.    The method of claim 118, wherein the cancer treatment regimen comprises fludarabine,
    cyclophosphamide, and rituximab.
    127.    The method of claim 118, wherein the cancer treatment regimen comprises
    cyclophosphamide, vincristine, and prednisone, and optionally, rituximab.
25  128.    The method of claim 118, wherein the cancer treatment regimen comprises etoposide,
    doxorubicin, vinristine, cyclophosphamide, prednisolone, and optionally, rituximab.

                                              191
129.      The method of claim 118, wherein the cancer treatment regimen comprises
dexamethasone and lenalidomide.
                                     Pharmacyclics, Inc.
                   Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                   SPRUSON & FERGUSON
(16117814_1):GGG

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
