                                           ABSTRACT
      A method and a system for a simulation such as a game are disclosed. The method includes
steps displaying a determination region in at least one section distinguished by neighboring
points, on a virtual passage formed by a plurality of points sequentially connected with each other.
The method also includes displaying an object moving along the virtual passage on a screen, and
determining an accuracy or success/failure of a user input based on a position of the object at a
time when the user input is detected and a position of the determination region.

                                                 -1
                         METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR A SIMULATION
                       CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
         [0001] This application claims priority from and the benefit of Korean Patent Application
No.10-2012-0133514, filed on November 23, 2012, which is hereby incorporated by reference
for all purposes as if fully set forth herein.
                              BACKGROUND OF THE DISCLOSURE
         [00021 FIELD OF THE DISCLOSURE
         [0003] Exemplary embodiments of the disclosure relate to a method and a system for a
computer simulation of a real life activity.
         [00041 Discussion of the Background
         [00051 A conventional simulation program (e.g., a fishing simulation game) may provide
simulated experiences similar to corresponding real-life experiences (e.g., catching a fish while
fishing). In some cases, conventional methods for executing the simulation may act as an entry
barrier for users unfamiliar with the simulation. In contrast, if the conventional method for
executing the simulation is too simple, users might lose interest in the simulation easily.
         [0006] Accordingly, there is a need for providing a simulation program that can enhance
user experience and that can be played by users unfamiliar with a specific technique associated
with the simulation game.
         [0007] The above information disclosed in this Background section is only for
enhancement of understanding of the background of the disclosed subject matter and therefore

may contain information that does not form any part of the prior art nor what the prior art may
suggest to a person of ordinary skill in the art. That is, any discussion of the prior art in the
throughout this specification should in no way be considered as an admission that such prior art is widely
known or forms part of common general knowledge in the field.
                                 SUMMARY OF THE DISCLOSURE
         [00081 Exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method and a system
for a game that may enhance interest in the game and simplify the game by determining the
accuracy or success/failure of a user input.
         [0009] Exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure also provide a method and a
system for a game that may lower a user entry barrier for the game and enhance interest in the
game simultaneously.
         [0010] Additional features of the present disclosure will be set forth in the description
which follows, and in part will be apparent from the description, or may be learned by practice of
the disclosed subject matter.
         [00111 Exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure disclose a method of executing
a simulation game on a terminal in communication with a game server, the method comprising:
        providing the simulation game from the game server to the terminal for installation;
        displaying, on a display of the terminal, a first determination region in at least one of a
plurality of sections of a virtual passage, the virtual passage comprising a plurality of points, and
neighboring points in the plurality of points forming the sections;
        displaying, on the display of the terminal, an object configured to move along the virtual

                                                  -3
passage;
        displaying, on the display of the terminal, a second determination region in one of the
sections of the virtual passage that the object has passed based on a determined probability; and
        detennining, using a processor, an accuracy of an input based on a position of the object,
a time when the input is detected, and a position of the first detennination region,
        wherein the determined probability is calculated based on a number of determination
regions displayed while the object is moving from a start point to a last point on the virtual
passage, a number of determination regions newly created according to a movement of the object
from the start point to a current point of the object, and a number of remaining sections to a target
point from a section corresponding to the current point of the object
        [0012] Exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure also disclose a system for
playing a simulation game provided from a game server in communication with the system, the
system comprising:
        a determination region display control unit configured to:
                control display of a first determination region in at least one of a plurality of
        sections of a virtual passage, the virtual passage comprising a plurality of points,
        neighboring points in the plurality of points forming the sections; and
                display a second determination region in one of the sections of the virtual passage
        of the first determination region, based on a determined probability;
        an object display control unit configured to control display of an object configured to
move along the virtual passage; and
        a determination unit configured to determine an accuracy of an input based on a position

                                                  -4
of the object, a time when the input is detected, and a position of the first determination region,
        wherein the determined probability is calculated based on a number of determination
regions displayed while the object is moving from a start point to a last point on the virtual
passage, a number of determination regions newly created according to a movement of the object
from the start point to a current point of the object, and a number of remaining sections to a target
point from a section corresponding to the current point of the object.
         [00131 Exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure also disclose a game program
distribution system for executing a simulation game program in a terminal, the distribution
system comprising:
        a game program distribution server configured to transmit the simulation game program
to the terminal,
        wherein, upon execution of the game program, the tenninal is configured to:
                 display a first determination region in at least one of a plurality of sections of a
        virtual passage, the virtual passage comprising a plurality of points, neighboring points in
        the plurality of points forming the sections;
                 display a second determination region in one of the sections of the virtual passage
        of the first determination region, based on a determined probability;
                 display an object configured to move along the virtual passage; and
        determine an accuracy of an input based on a position of the object, a time when the input
is detected, and a position of the first determination region, and
        wherein the detennined probability is calculated based on a number of determination
regions displayed while the object is moving from a start point to a last point on the virtual

                                                  -5
passage, a number of determination regions newly created according to a movement of the object
from the start point to a current point of the object, and a number of remaining sections to a target
point from a section corresponding to the current point of the object.
         [0014] Exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure also provide a method for
simulating movement of an object on a terminal in communication with a simulation server, the
simulation method comprising:
         providing the simulation method from the simulation server to the terminal for
installation;
         displaying, on a display of the terminal, a first determination region in at least one of a
plurality of sections of a virtual passage, the virtual passage comprising a plurality of points, and
neighboring points in the plurality of points forming the sections;
         displaying, on the display of the terminal, the object configured to move along the virtual
passage;
         displaying, on the display of the terminal, a second determination region in one of the
sections of the virtual passage that the object has passed based on a determined probability; and
         determining, using a processor, an accuracy of an input based on a position of the object,
a time when the input is detected, and a position of the first determination region,
         wherein the determined probability is calculated based on a number of determination
regions displayed while the object is moving from a start point to a last point on the virtual
passage, a number of determination regions newly created according to a movement of the object
from the start point to a current point of the object, and a number of remaining sections to a target
point from a section corresponding to the current point of the object.

                                                  -6
        [0015] Exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure also provide a system for
displaying a simulation of movement of an object provided from a simulation server in
communication with the system, the system comprising:
        a determination region display control unit configured to:
                control display of a first determination region in at least one of a plurality of
        sections of a virtual passage, the virtual passage comprising a plurality of points,
        neighboring points in the plurality of points forming the sections; and
                display a second determination region in one of the sections of the virtual passage
        of the first determination region, based on a determined probability;
an object display control unit configured to control display of the object configured to move
along the virtual passage; and
        a determination unit configured to determine an accuracy of an input based on a position
of the object, a time when the input is detected, and a position of the first determination region,
        wherein the determined probability is calculated based on a number of determination
regions displayed while the object is moving from a start point to a last point on the virtual
passage, a number of determination regions newly created according to a movement of the object
from the start point to a current point of the object, and a number of remaining sections to a target
point from a section corresponding to the current point of the object.
        [0016] Exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure also provide a simulation
program distribution system for executing a simulation program in a terminal wherein the
simulation program simulates movement of an object, the simulation program distribution system
comprising:

                                                  -7
        a simulation program distribution server configured to transmit the simulation program to
the terminal,
        wherein, upon execution of the simulation program, the terminal is configured to:
                 display a first determination region in at least one of a plurality of sections of a
        virtual passage, the virtual passage comprising a plurality of points, neighboring points in
        the plurality of points forming the sections;
                 display a second determination region in one of the sections of the virtual passage
        of the first determination region, based on a determined probability;
                 display an object configured to move along the virtual passage; and
                 determine an accuracy of an input based on a position of the object, a time when
        the input is detected, and a position of the first determination region, and
        wherein the determined probability is calculated based on a number of determination
regions displayed while the object is moving from a start point to a last point on the virtual
passage, a number of determination regions newly created according to a movement of the object
from the start point to a current point of the object, and a number of remaining sections to a target
point from a section corresponding to the current point of the object.
        [0017] Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the
claims, the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an inclusive
sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the sense of "including, but
not limited to".
        [0018] It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following
detailed description are exemplary and explanatory and are intended to provide further

                                                 -8
explanation of the disclosed subject matter as claimed.
                            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        [0019] The accompanying drawings, which are included to provide a further
understanding of the disclosed subject matter and are incorporated in and constitute a part of this
specification, illustrate exemplary embodiments of the disclosed subject matter, and together with
the description serve to explain the principles of the disclosed subject matter.
        [00201 FIG. I is a diagram schematically illustrating a system according to exemplary
embodiments of the disclosure.
        [0021] FIG. 2 is a block diagram illustrating an internal configuration of the system
according to exemplary embodiments of the disclosure.
        [00221 FIG. 3 is a flow chart illustrating a method for a method according to exemplary
embodiments of the disclosure.
        [0023] FIG. 4 is a diagram illustrating a virtual passage and a determination region
according to exemplary embodiments of the disclosure.
        [00241 FIG. 5 is a diagram illustrating an object and a determination region according to
exemplary embodiments of the disclosure.
        [0025] FIG. 6 is a diagram illustrating a portion of a touch screen of a user terminal
according to exemplary embodiments of the disclosure.
        [00261 FIG. 7 is a diagram illustrating a new determination region additionally displayed
according to exemplary embodiments of the disclosure.
        [0027] FIGS. 8 and 9 are diagrams illustrating examples of a target score and an achieved

                                                 -9
score according to exemplary embodiments of the disclosure.
         [0028] FIG. 10 is a diagram illustrating an example of a virtual passage formed by
sequentially connected points according to exemplary embodiments of the disclosure.
         [0029] FIG. 11 is a diagram illustrating an example of an initial appearance of an object
according to exemplary embodiments of the disclosure.
         [0030] FIG. 12 is a diagram illustrating an example in which a new determination region
is additionally provided and an example in which no new determination region is provided,
according to exemplary embodiments of the disclosure.
         [00311 FIG. 13 is a diagram illustrating an object having moved to a section where a
determination region is marked, according to exemplary embodiments of the disclosure.
         [00321 FIG. 14 is a diagram illustrating an example of a determination region being
eliminated, according to exemplary embodiments of the disclosure.
         [00331 FIG. 15 is a diagram illustrating an example of an object reaching a target point,
according to exemplary embodiments of the disclosure.
             DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE ILLUSTRATEDEMBODIMENTS
         [0034] Exemplary embodiments of the disclosed subject matter are described more fully
hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings. The disclosed subject matter may,
however, be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the
exemplary embodiments set forth herein. Rather, the exemplary embodiments are provided so
that this disclosure is thorough and complete, and will convey the scope of the disclosed subject
matter to those skilled in the art. In the drawings, the size and relative sizes of layers and regions

                                                - 10
may be exaggerated for clarity. Like reference numerals in the drawings denote like elements.
        [0035] It will be understood that when an element or layer is referred to as being "on",
"connected to", or "coupled to" another element or layer, it can be directly on, connected, or
coupled to the other element or layer or intervening elements or layers may be present. In
contrast, when an element is referred to as being "directly on", "directly connected to", or
"directly coupled to" another element or layer, there are no intervening elements or layers
present. As used herein, the term "and/or" includes any and all combinations of one or more of
the associated listed items. It may also be understood that for the purposes of this disclosure, "at
least one of X, Y, and Z" can be construed as X only, Y only, Z only, or any combination of two
or more items X, Y, and Z (e.g., XYZ, XYY, YZ, ZZ).
        [00361 It will be understood that, although the terms first, second, third etc. may be used
herein to describe various elements, components, regions, layers, and/or sections, these elements,
components, regions, layers, and/or sections should not be limited by these terms. These terms
are only used to distinguish one element, component, region, layer, or section from another
region, layer or section. Thus, a first element, component, region, layer, or section discussed
below could be termed a second element, component, region, layer, or section without departing
from the teachings of the present disclosure.
        [0037] The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing exemplary
embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the disclosed subject matter. As used
herein, the singular forms "a", "an", and "the" are intended to include the plural forms as well,
unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terns
"comprises" and/or "comprising," when used in this specification, specify the presence of stated

                                                  - 11
features, integers, steps, operations, elements, and/or components, but do not preclude the
presence or addition of one or more other features, integers, steps, operations, elements,
components, and/or groups thereof.
         [0038] Exemplary embodiments of the disclosed subject matter are described herein with
reference to cross-section illustrations that are schematic illustrations of idealized embodiments
(and intermediate structures) of the disclosed subject matter. As such, variations from the shapes
of the illustrations as a result, for example, of manufacturing techniques and/or tolerances, are to
be expected. Thus, exemplary embodiments of the disclosed subject matter should not be
construed as limited to the particular shapes of regions illustrated herein but are to include
deviations in shapes that result, for example, from manufacturing.
         [00391 Unless otherwise defined, all terms (including technical and scientific terms) used
herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to
which this disclosed subject matter belongs. It will be further understood that terms, such as
those defined in commonly used dictionaries, should be interpreted as having a meaning that is
consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an
idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.
         [0040] Hereinafter, exemplary embodiments of the disclosed subject matter will be
described in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings.
         [0041] FIG. 1 is a diagram schematically illustrating a simulation game program system
according to exemplary embodiments of the disclosure. The game simulation system shown in
FIG. I includes a user terminal 110, a game simulation server 120, and a simulation program
distribution server 130.

                                               -  12
        [0042] The user terminal 110 may be a device that can communicate with the simulation
program distribution server 130 via a wire network or a wireless network. Examples of the user
terminal 110 include a personal computer (PC), smart phone, electronic pad, smart television
(TV), laptop computer, and the like. In general, the user terminal 110 may be any electronic
device that can communicate with the simulation program distribution server 130 and simulation
server 120 over a wire or wireless network. The user terminal 110 may include a display unit
(not shown) for displaying infonnation to a user of the user terminal 110. The display unit may
be any suitable type of display, for example, a liquid crystal display, an organic light emitting
diode display, or a plasma display. The display unit may include a touch screen or a non-touch
screen. The user terminal 100 may also have one or more sensors configured to detect user
inputs. The user terminal 110 may be provided with a simulation program from the simulation
program distribution server 130. In some cases, the simulation program may be downloaded to
the user terminal 110 upon receiving a request from a user of the user terminal 110. In some
cases, the simulation program distribution server 130 may transmit the simulation program
according to a scheduled transmission.
        [00431 The simulation program distribution server 130 may be any combination of
hardware and/or software, and may include various components configured to distribute the
simulation program to various other devices (e.g., user terminal 110). The simulation program
distribution server 130 may include a simulation program transmitting unit (not shown)
configured to transmit a simulation program to the user terminal 110. A processor (not shown) of
the simulation program distribution server 130 may control the simulation program transmitting
unit. The simulation program distribution server 130 may also provide updated software for the

                                               - 13
simulation program to user terminal 110. In some cases, the updated software may be
transmitted according to a scheduled transmission (e.g., periodically or a fixed date or day). The
simulation program distribution server 130 may communicate with user terminal 110 and
simulation server 130.
        [0044] The simulation program may be a stand-alone program that can be implemented
solely in the user terminal 110 or a network program that can be implemented via communication
with the game server 120. Various types of simulation programs may be provided. For example,
the simulation programs may be related to sports, recreational activities (e.g., fishing), combat,
town-building, exploration, and the like. The simulation program may include modules
configured to control the user terminal 110 to implement steps of a method for a simulation
which will be described referring to FIGS. 2 and 3.
        [00451 The simulation server 120 may communicate with the user terminal 110 and/or the
simulation program distribution server 130. For example, the simulation server 120 may be a
server configured to receive and transmit simulation-related data to the user terminal 110. In
general the simulation server 120 is configured to support implementation and execution of the
simulation program in one or more user terminals 110. The simulation server 120 may include
any combination of hardware and/or software, and may include various components configured
to support the simulation program. For example, the simulation server 120 may include a
processor configured to control all operations of the simulation server 120. The processor may
control a transceiver for sending and receiving data to one or more user terminals 110.
        [0046] FIG. 2 is a block diagram illustrating an internal configuration of a simulation
system according to exemplary embodiments of the disclosure. FIG. 3 is a flow chart illustrating

                                                - 14
a method for playing a simulation (referred to hereinafter as "simulation method") according to
exemplary embodiments of the disclosure. The simulation system 200 may correspond to the
user terminal 110 in FIG. 1. As shown in FIG. 2, the simulation system 200 may include a
determination region display control unit 210, an object display control unit 220, and a
detennination unit 230. The simulation system 200 may implement a simulation method
described further with reference to FIG. 3.
        [00471 The determination region display control unit 210, object display control unit 220,
and determination unit 230 may be a combination of hardware and/or software components. For
instance, in some cases, each of the units 210, 220, and 230 may include a processor for
executing the simulation method. In some cases, each of the units 210, 220, and 230 may include
modules for executing the simulation method. It should be understood that while units 210, 220,
and 230 are shown as separate units, in some cases, the units 210, 220, and 230 may be integrated
into one unit, and may have separate or combined processors and/or modules.
        [0048] Referring to FIGS. 2 and 3, the simulation system 200 may control a display unit
to display a screen showing a virtual passage formed by sequentially connected points. The
display unit may display a determination region in at least one of sections distinguished by
neighboring points on the virtual passage (310). For instance, in a virtual passage having 14
points labeled 'a' to 'n', there may be 13 sections distinguished by the neighboring points, and a
determination region may be displayed in at least one of 13 sections. Step 310 may be perfonned
by the determination region display control unit 210 provided in the simulation system 200.
        [0049] FIG. 4 is a diagram illustrates a virtual passage and a determination region
according to exemplary embodiments of the disclosure. A picture 410 shows a virtual passage

                                                 - 15
411 formed of 9 points sequentially connected with each other from 'a' to 'i'. The virtual
passage 411 shows that 8 sections labeled'1' to '8' can be distinguished from each other using
respective neighboring points. The neighboring points, sections, and virtual passage 411 may be
displayed on a screen of the user tenninal 110. For instance, a picture 420 shows determination
regions 421, 422, and 423 displayed on a screen. The first determination region 421 is displayed
corresponding to a second section between points 'b' and 'c' in picture 410. The second
determination region 422 is displayed corresponding to a fourth section between points 'd' and
'e' in picture 410. The third determination region 423 is displayed corresponding to a fifth
section between points 'e' and 'f in picture 410. Although eight points are shown in FIG. 4, the
number of the points is not limited thereto, and numerous points may be displayed. For instance,
14 points may be used and a virtual passage having 13 sections may be formed. The number of
points may be preset or controlled dynamically while a simulation is run.
         [00501 Referring back to FIGS. 2 and 3, the simulation system 200 can control an object
displayed on the screen, while the object is moving along the virtual passage 411 (320). The
object may be displayed on the screen to move along the virtual passage 411 based on various
conditions. For instance, the simulation system 200 may control a display unit to display the
object moving towards a target point set based on a number of preset first sections or pausing at a
resting point set based on a number of preset second sections. The number of preset first sections
and/or the number of preset second sections may be predetermined based on at least one of a
level difficulty and an ability of a user. The level difficulty may be set according to a type of
target and the ability of the user may be set according to an experience point obtained through
playing game. For instance, in fishing game, the type of target may be a type of fish and the

                                                 - 16
ability of the user may be a game level of the user. Step 320 may be performed by the object
display control unit 220 provided in the system 200.
         [00511 FIG. 5 is a diagram illustrating an object and a determination region according to
exemplary embodiments of the disclosure. FIG. 5 shows the detennination regions 421, 422, and
423, and an object 510 realized as a heart shape. In FIG. 5, the object 510 was realized as the
heart shape. However, the object 510 may be realized as one of various shapes, such as a fish
shape or a float shape.
         [00521 If the number of preset first sections is set to '5'and the starting point is 'a', the
object 510 may move from 'a' (starting point) to 'f (target point), as shown in FIG. 5.
         [0053] If the number of preset second sections is '3', the object 510 may pause at point
'd' for a predetermined time period and move toward 'f' as a target point. When the object 510
reaches 'f as the target point, the system 200 may change a target point based on the number of
preset first sections. For instance, 'i' may be set as a target point the object 510 can reach after
moving three sections from 'f in a right direction. The predetermined time period that object
510 pauses may be set by the user or set per a manufacturer's default setting. In some cases,
when the obj ect 510 reaches a target point, the object 510 may pause for a preset time to indicate
that a target point has been reached.
         [0054] A direction in which the object 510 moves may be changed based on a probability
of directional change. For instance, when the object 510 moves from starting point 'a' and
reaches target point 'f', the direction of movement of the object 510 can be changed according to
the probability of direction change. For instance, the target point may be changed from 'f to 'a'
that is 5 sections in another direction. The probability of direction change may be predetermined

                                                 - 17
based on at least one of a level difficulty and an ability of a user.
        [0055] Moreover, when the object 510 reaches the target point 'f', the speed of the object
510 can also be changed based on a preset variable range for the level difficulty of target.
        [0056] As mentioned above, the object 510 can move on the virtual passage 411
according to various conditions. The system 200 may display the movement of the object 510 on
the screen.
        [00571 Referring back to FIGS. 2 and 3, the system 200 may determine a position of the
object 510 at a point on the virtual passage 411, may detect a user input, and may determine the
accuracy of the user input or success or failure of the user input (330). For instance, if the object
510 reaches the same position as a determination region, the user may select (e.g., touch the
screen or click through an input device) a preset user interface to generate an event. The system
200 may detect the user input and compare the position of the object 510 at the point where the
user input is detected with the position of the determination region. If the position of the object
510 is within a threshold range of the determination region, the system 200 may determine the
accuracy of the user input or the success or failure of the user input. The threshold range may be
set by the user or a manufacturer of the system 200. For instance, in some cases, the threshold
range may be set to half or one section to the left or the right of the determination region. Step
330 may be performed by the determination unit 230 provided in the system 200.
        [0058] FIG. 6 is a diagram illustrating a touch screen of a user terminal according to
exemplary embodiments of the disclosure. The touch screen 600 shows a screen of the user
terminal 110. The user terminal 110 may correspond to the system 200. The screen 600 may
display the determination regions 421, 422, and 423 and the object 510. The object 510 may

                                                 - 18
move along a virtual passage in a direction of the arrow shown in FIG. 6.
        [0059] The user may touch a region of the screen displaying the user interface 610 when
the object 510 is moving. The user terminal 110 may then determine how accurate the user input
is or whether the user input succeeds or fails, based on a position of the object 510 when the
user's touch is detected and based on the position of a determination region (e.g., the second
determination region 422). The position of the object 510 and the position of the second
determination region 422 may be positions along the virtual passage 411.
        [00601 In some cases, the method may further include a step (not shown) of displaying a
new determination region in a section where the object 510 has passed based on a calculated
probability whenever the object 510 passes a plurality of sections. The new determination region
may be additionally displayed in at least one section randomly selected among sections where the
object 510 has passed. This step may be performed by the determination region display control
unit 210 provided in the system 200.
        [0061] The probability may be calculated based on a number of determination regions set
while the object 510 moves from a start point to a target point on the virtual passage 411, a
number of determination regions newly created according to the movement of the object 510
from the start point to a current point of the object 510, and a number of the remaining sections to
a target point from the current point at which the object 510 is positioned. More specifically, the
probability may be calculated using the following Mathematical Equation 1:
        [00621 Mathematical Equation 1
            P (Probability)  = (A-B)/C
        [0063] 'A' may refer to the number of determination regions set while the object is

                                                 - 19
moving from a start point to a target point on the virtual passage 411. 'B' may refer to a number
of determination regions newly created according to the movement of the object 510 from the
start point to a current point. 'C' may refer to a number of remaining sections to a target point
from the current point of the object 510.
        [0064] FIG. 7 is a diagram illustrating a new determination region additionally displayed
according to exemplary embodiments of the disclosure.
        [00651 FIG. 7 shows that a new determination region 720 is additionally displayed in
section '1' after the object 510 passes section '1'. Based on the probability calculated after the
object 510 passes section '1', a determination is made as to whether a new determination region
720 should be displayed. In FIG. 7, the determination region 730 is displayed early irrespective
of the movement of object 510.
        [00661 As an example, 'A' in Mathematical Equation 1 may beset to2 and a target point
may be 'f'. A new determination region may not be generated according to the movement of the
object 510 and accordingly 'B' may have a value of '0'. There are four sections from section '2'
to '5' and therefore 'C' may have a value of '4'. Accordingly, the probability that a new
determination region 720 will be displayed may be calculated as '(2-0)/4 = 1/2' based on
Mathematical Equation 1.
        [0067] If a new determination region 720 is additionally displayed as the object 510
passes section '2', the calculated probability of another determination region displayed on the
section '2' may be '(2-1)/3 = 1/3'. In contrast, if no new determination region 720 is displayed,
the calculated probability of another determination region displayed on the section '2' when the
object 510 passes section '2' may be '(2-0)/3 = 2/3'. The numerator of Mathematical Equation 1

                                                - 20
is set so that it cannot be smaller than '0'.
         [0068] In some cases, the method may further include a step (not shown) of determining a
moving direction of the object 510 based on a preset direction variation probability or
determining the speed of the object 510 based on a preset speed variation range when the object
510 reaches a target point set according to a number of preset first sections or a pause point set
according to a number of preset second sections. This step may be performed by a moving
direction determination unit (not shown) in the system 200. For example, the object display
control unit 220 in the system 200 may control display of the object 510 based on a moving
direction or speed determined by the moving direction determination unit.
         [0069] In some cases, the method may further include a step (not shown) of determining
an achieved score based on an ability set for the user or a character selected by the user and a step
(not shown) of determining whether a goal for the user or the character of the user is achieved,
based on the achieved score and a target score set according to a level difficulty of a target. For
instance, in a fishing game, the goal may include getting a target fish based on the achieved score.
These steps may be performed by an achieved score determination unit (not shown) and a goal
achieving determination unit (not shown) that may be further provided in the system 200. For
instance, the achieved score may be determined based on the accuracy of the user input, and the
target score may be detennined based on a level of difficulty.
         [0070] FIGS. 8 and 9 are diagrams illustrating examples of a target score and an achieved
score according to exemplary embodiments of the disclosure. A first screen 800 shows an object
510 passing a determination region 820 in a direction of the illustrated arrow. The first screen
800 may display an achieved score of '65' based on the user's performance (i.e., determinations

                                                  -21
that the user inputs have been accurate or successful). The achieved score may be calculated, in
part, based on the ability set for the user or the character of the user. The first screen 800 may
also display '750' as a current target score 840. A second screen 900 may display a remaining
target score of '685', which corresponds to the achieved score '65' being subtracted from the
target score '750' 840. In some cases, the target may be achieved once the remaining target score
840 reaches '0'. For instance, in a fishing game, a physical strength of a fish may be expressed as
the target score 840. When the physical strength of the fish is reduced down to '0', the fish
maybe caught (i.e., goal achieved).
         [00711 In some cases, the method may further include a step (not shown) of removing a
displayed determination region when it is determined that the user input is accurate or successful.
For example, the determination region 820 in FIG. 8 is removed in FIG. 9 in response to the user
input being determined as accurate or successful.
         [00721 Next, exemplary embodiments of an object movement process will be described
with reference to FIGS. 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, and 16. Initial values and variables used in these
exemplary embodiments are described in Table 1.
         [00731 Table 1
             Initial Value
             Initial Determination Region Number          The number of the determination
                                                          regions initially created
             Maximum Determination Region                 The maximum number of
             Number                                       determination regions that are
                                                          displayable at a time
             Determination Region Creation Rate           The number of determination regions
                                                          that will be created while an object is
                                                          moving to a target point
             Start Point                                  A point where an object is displayed
                                                          initially

                                              - 22
            Target Point Set Section Number           The number of sections for determining
                                                      a target point
            Target Point Range                        A range in which the number of the
                                                      target point setting sections is variable
            Initial Object Speed                      An initial moving speed of an object.
            Object Moving Speed Range                 A variable range in which the moving
                                                      speed of an object is changed at a target
                                                      point (e.g., number of sections moved
                                                      per unit time (seconds))
            Pause Point Section Number                The number of sections to the next
                                                      pause point
            Pause Point Section Range                 A variable range of numbers of pause
                                                      point sections
            Pausing Time (seconds)                    The time for which the movement of
                                                      the object is paused at a pause point
            Pausing Time Range (seconds)              A variable range of a pausing time
            Direction Variation Probability           The Probability of direction variation at
                                                      a target point (0 ~ 100%)
            Direction Variation Probability Range     A variable range of direction variation
                                                      probabilities
            Variables
            Current Position                          A point at which an object is currently
                                                      positioned
            Determination Region Creation             The probability that a determination
            Probability                               region is created whenever an object
                                                      passes one section (see Mathematical
                                                      Equation 1)
            Target Point                              A point that is a target of a moving
                                                      object
            Pause Point Determination                 Determine whether the target point is a
                                                      pause point
            Pausing Time (seconds)                    The time for which the movement of
                                                      the object is paused
            Object Moving Speed                       A current moving speed of the object
                                                      (e.g., number of sections moved per
                                                      unit time (seconds)).
       [0074] FIG. 10 is a diagram illustrating an example of a virtual passage formed by
sequentially connected points according to exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure.

                                                - 23
FIG. 10 shows a virtual passage having 13 sections formed by 14 points. The initial values of the
virtual passage in FIG. 10 are given as shown in following Table 2:
         [00751 Table 2
             Initial Value
             Initial Determination Region Number        3
             Maximum Determination Region               5
             Number
             Determination Region Creation Rate         3
             Start Point                                a
             Target Point Set Section Number            13
             Target Point Range                         0
             Initial Object Speed                       6
             Object Moving Speed Range                  0
             Pause Point Section Number                 13
             Pause Point Section Range                  0
             Pausing Time                               0.5
             Pausing Time Range                         0.2
             Direction Variation Probability            0
             Direction Variation Probability Range      0
         [0076] FIG. 11 is a diagram illustrating an example of an initial appearance of an object
according to exemplary embodiments of the disclosure. In Table 2, the number of initial
determination regions is '3'. FIG. 11 displays three determination regions 1110, 1120, and 1130.
As shown in FIG. 11 and noted in Table 2, a start point is 'a' and an object 1140 is displayed at
point 'a'. Accordingly, the variables noted above in Table I may have following values, as
shown in the following Table 3:
         [0077] Table 3
             Variables
             Current Position                           A

                                                - 24
             Determination Region Creation              3/13
             Probability
             Target Point                               N
             Pause Point Determination                  True (or 1)
             Pausing Time                               0.5
             Object Moving Speed                        6
         [0078] Object 510 may move toward a target point at a moving speed of '6' sections per
unit time (e.g., seconds). The number of pause point sections and the number of turning point set
sections are 13, such that the target point may be set as a pause point. Accordingly, when the
object 510 reaches the target point 'n', the object 510 may pause for a time period corresponding
to a pausing time of '0.5' seconds and then move again. In this example, the target point 'n' is
the last point, and the object 1140 may move toward point 'n', regardless of the direction
variation probability.
         [0079] FIG. 12 is a diagram illustrating an example in which a new determination region
is added and an example in which no new determination region is added, according to exemplary
embodiments of the disclosure. In FIG. 12, in the example shown in the first dotted line box
1210, a new determination region 1211 is added when the object 510movesfrom point 'a' to point
'b'. In the example shown in the second dotted box 1220, no new detennination region 1211 is
added when the object 510 moves from point 'a' to point 'b'.
         [00801 In the example shown in the first dotted box 1210, the determination region
creation probability shown in Table 3 may be changed to '(3-1)/12 = 2/12' based on

                                                 - 25
Mathematical Equation 1. In the example shown in the second dotted box 1210, the
determination region creation probability in Table 3 may be changed to '(3-0)/12 = 3/12'. If a
determination region is added when the object 510 moves from point 'b' to point 'c', the
determination region creation probability in Table 3 may be changed to '(3-2)/11 = 1/11'. If no
detennination region is added, the determination region creation probability may be changed to
'(3-0)/11 = 3/11 'when the object 510 moves from the point of 'b' to the point of 'c'.
         [00811 FIG. 13 is a diagram illustrating an example of an object 510 having moved past a
section where a determination region is marked, according to exemplary embodiments of the
disclosure. In FIG. 13, new determination region 1211 is generated after the object 5 1Opasses
section '1' (i.e., section between point 'a' and point 'b'), and no determination region is created
after the object 510 passes section '2'(i.e., section between point 'b' and point 'c').When the
object 510 passes section '3' (i.e., section between point 'c' and point 'd') and a determination
region 1110 is created, the accuracy, success, or failure of a user input may be determined. If the
user input is determined to be accurate or successful, the display of the determination region 1110
may be removed.
         [00821 If the user input is determined to be inaccurate or unsuccessful, a new
determination region may be additionally added, and the determination region creation
probability may be changed to '(3-2)/10 = 1/10'. When a new determination region is
additionally created after the object 510 passes section '4' (i.e., section between point 'd' and
point 'e'), the detennination region creation probability may be changed to '(3-3)/9 = 1/9 = 0'
and no detennination region is additionally displayed until the object 510 reaches a target point
of 'n'.

                                                 - 26
        [0083] FIG. 14 is a diagram illustrating an example of a determination region being
eliminated, according to exemplary embodiments of the disclosure. If a user input for a
determination region 1120 in section '5' (i.e., section between point 'e' and point 'f')is
successful, the determination region creation probability may be '(3-3)/8 = 1/8 = 0' when the
object 5 1Ois positioned at point 'f and no determination region is added until the object 1140
reaches a target point 'n'. If the user input for the determination region 1130 in section '11' (i.e.,
section between point 'k' and point '1') is successful, the determination region 1130 may be
removed from the screen.
        [00841 FIG. 15 is a diagram illustrating an example of an object reaching a target point,
according to exemplary embodiments of the disclosure. When the object 510 reaches the target
point 'n', the target point may be changed to point 'a'. In addition, the determination region
creation probability may be changed to '(3-0)/13 = 3/13' according to the target point of 'a'.
Since the former target point of 'n' is a pause point, the object 5 10may pause for a predetermined
time period corresponding to the pausing time of 0.5 seconds and subsequently move towards the
new target point 'a'.
        [00851 In FIGS. 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, and 15, the initial values (as explained in Table 1)
were provided to explain the illustrated exemplary embodiments. However, the initial value may
be set differently based on a level of difficulty of the simulation.
        [0086] According to exemplary embodiments of the disclosure, the accuracy or
success/failure of a user input may be determined based on a user providing an input at a time
when a moving object (e.g., object 510) enters a determination region. Accordingly, a simple
simulation may be provided and an interest in the simulation may be enhanced. In addition, an

                                                  - 27
entry barrier for users to participate in a simulation may be lowered and the interest in the
simulation may be enhanced. The described method may be applied to various types of
simulations of real life activities, including for example, a fishing game.
         [0087] The method described hereinabove may be executed in any suitable device
realized by hardware components, software components, and/or a combination of hardware and
software components. For instance, the device and components may be realized by using one or
more common computers or special purpose computers, which may include a processor, a
controller, an Arithmetic Logic Unit (ALU), a digital signal processor, a microcomputer, a Field
Programmable Array (FPA), a Programmable Logic Unit (PLU), a microprocessor. The device
and components may implement an instruction and respond to the instruction. A processor may
execute an operating system (OS) and one or more software applications running on the OS. The
processor may store, process, and create data in response to the implementation of software.
         [00881 The software may include a computer program, a code, an algorithm, an
instruction, and any combination thereof. The software may include a mechanical language code
made by a compiler and a high level language code implementable by a computer, using an
interpreter, and the like. The software may be dispersed on a computer system or through a
network. The software and data may be stored or implemented in one or more computer readable
recording medium.
         [0089] The computer readable medium may include a program command, a data file, a
data structure or combination of them. The program command recorded in the medium may be
configured for exemplary embodiments of the disclosure. Examples of computer readable
medium include magnetic medium such as a hard disk, a floppy disk, optical medium such as

                                                 - 28
CD-ROM and DVD, magneto-optical medium such as a floptical disk, and a hardware device
such as ROM, RAM, and a flash memory. The hardware device may be configured to execute
one or more software modules to implement the exemplary embodiments.
        [0090] It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and
variations can be made in the present disclosure without departing from the spirit or scope of the
disclosed subject matter. Thus, it is intended that the present disclosure cover the modifications
and variations of the disclosed subject matter provided they come within the scope of the
appended claims and their equivalents.

                                                 - 29
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
         1.      A method for simulating movement of an object on a terminal in communication
with a simulation server, the simulation method comprising:
         providing the simulation method from the simulation server to the terminal for
installation;
         displaying, on a display of the terminal, a first determination region in at least one of a
plurality of sections of a virtual passage, the virtual passage comprising a plurality of points, and
neighboring points in the plurality of points forming the sections;
         displaying, on the display of the terminal, the object configured to move along the virtual
passage;
         displaying, on the display of the terminal, a second determination region in one of the
sections of the virtual passage that the object has passed based on a determined probability; and
         determining, using a processor, an accuracy of an input based on a position of the object,
a time when the input is detected, and a position of the first determination region,
         wherein the determined probability is calculated based on a number of determination
regions displayed while the object is moving from a start point to a last point on the virtual
passage, a number of determination regions newly created according to a movement of the object
from the start point to a current point of the object, and a number of remaining sections to a target
point from a section corresponding to the current point of the object.

                                                  - 30
        2.      The method of claim 1, wherein displaying the object configured to move along
the virtual passage comprises displaying movement of the object to a target point based on a
number of set first sections or displaying the object as pausing, for a determined time period, at a
pause point based on a number of set second sections.
        3.      The method of claim 1, further comprising:
        determining a moving direction of the object based on a direction variation probability or
determining a moving speed of the object based on a moving speed variation range, when the
object reaches a target point set based on a number of set first sections or a pause point set based
on a number of set second sections,
        wherein displaying the object configured to move along the virtual passage comprises
displaying movement of the object based on the determined moving direction or the determined
moving speed.
        4.      The method of claim 1, further comprising:
        displaying an achieved score of a user in response to the input being accurate; and
        determining whether a goal for the user is achieved based on the achieved score and a
target score set based on a level of difficulty in achieving the target.
         5.     The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of a moving speed of the object, a
moving speed variation range of the object, a direction variation probability of the object at a
target point, and a number of first sections used to set a target point is determined based on a

                                                 -31
level of difficulty, and
        wherein movement of the object is displayed based on the at least one of the moving
speed of the object, the moving speed variation range of the object, the direction variation
probability of the object at the target point, and the number of first sections used to set the target
point.
        6.      The method of claim 1, further comprising:
        discontinuing display of the first determination region in response to the input being
accurate.
        7.      A system for displaying a simulation of movement of an object provided from a
simulation server in communication with the system, the system comprising:
        a determination region display control unit configured to:
                control display of a first determination region in at least one of a plurality of
        sections of a virtual passage, the virtual passage comprising a plurality of points,
        neighboring points in the plurality of points forming the sections; and
                display a second determination region in one of the sections of the virtual passage
        of the first determination region, based on a determined probability;
        an object display control unit configured to control display of the object configured to
move along the virtual passage; and
        a determination unit configured to determine an accuracy of an input based on a position
of the object, a time when the input is detected, and a position of the first determination region,

                                                 - 32
        wherein the determined probability is calculated based on a number of determination
regions displayed while the object is moving from a start point to a last point on the virtual
passage, a number of determination regions newly created according to a movement of the object
from the start point to a current point of the object, and a number of remaining sections to a target
point from a section corresponding to the current point of the object.
        8.      The system of claim 7, wherein the object display control unit is configured to
control display of movement of the object to move to a target point based on a number of set first
sections or to display the object as pausing, for a determined time period, at a pause point based
on a number of set second sections.
        9.      The system of claim 7, further comprising:
        a moving direction determination unit configured to determine a moving direction of the
object based on a direction variation probability or configured to determine a moving speed of the
object based on a moving speed variation range, when the object reaches a target point set based
on a number of set first sections or a pause point set based on a number of set second sections,
        wherein the object display control unit is configured to control display of movement of
the object based on the determined moving direction or the determined moving speed.
        10.     The system of claim 7, further comprising:
        an achieved score determination unit configured to determine an achieved score of a user
in response to the input being accurate; and

                                                 - 33
        a goal achieving determination unit configured to determine whether a goal for the user is
achieved based on the achieved score and a target score set based on a level of difficulty in
achieving the target.
        11.     The system of claim 7, wherein at least one of a moving speed of the object, a
moving speed variation range of the object, a direction variation probability of the object at a
target point, and a number of first sections used to set the target point is determined based on a
level of difficulty, and
        wherein the object display control unit is configured to control display of movement of
the object along the virtual passage based on the at least one of the moving speed of the object,
the moving speed variation range of the object, the direction variation probability of the object at
the target point, and the number of first sections used to set the target point.
        12.     The system of claim 7, further comprising:
        a determination region removing unit configured to discontinue display of the first
determination region in response to the input being accurate.
        13.     A simulation program distribution system for executing a simulation program in a
terminal wherein the simulation program simulates movement of an object, the simulation
program distribution system comprising:
        a simulation program distribution server configured to transmit the simulation program to
the terminal,

                                                 - 34
        wherein, upon execution of the simulation program, the terminal is configured to:
                display a first determination region in at least one of a plurality of sections of a
        virtual passage, the virtual passage comprising a plurality of points, neighboring points in
        the plurality of points forming the sections;
                display a second determination region in one of the sections of the virtual passage
        of the first determination region, based on a determined probability;
                display an object configured to move along the virtual passage; and
                determine an accuracy of an input based on a position of the object, a time when
        the input is detected, and a position of the first determination region, and
        wherein the determined probability is calculated based on a number of determination
regions displayed while the object is moving from a start point to a last point on the virtual
passage, a number of determination regions newly created according to a movement of the object
from the start point to a current point of the object, and a number of remaining sections to a target
point from a section corresponding to the current point of the object.

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                            1/15
FIG. 1

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                        2/15
               FIG. 2

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                        3/15
               FIG. 3

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                        4/15
               FIG. 4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                        5/15
               FIG. 5

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                        6/15
               FIG. 6

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                        7/15
               FIG. 7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                        8/15
               FIG. 8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                        9/15
               FIG. 9

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                             10/15
FIG. 10

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                             11/15
FIG. 11

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                             12/15
FIG. 12

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                             13/15
FIG. 13

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                             14/15
FIG. 14

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                             15/15
FIG. 15

