                                           ABSTRACT
         A gaming machine for and method of tracking the activity of a user of a gaming machine
includes a server with a database, the server being connected in communication with the gaming
machine. Assigning an account number to a user and creating a tracking ticket for said user. The
tracking ticket, in one embodiment, is erasable and re-printable and includes a respective code for
the account number, but may not display personally identifiable information. The gaming machine
provokes creation of a record in said database and assigns the account number to the record as a
key value.
(Fig. 1)

1/4
              CN
        *           co
          coo
 co
               CN L
          CCN
          COO
    CCN

                                                  -1
           METHOD OF AND SYSTEM FOR TRACKING GAMING ACTIVITY
[000]    This is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No. 2013301599, the
contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
Field of the Invention:
[001]    The invention relates to a method of and system for tracking the activity of a gaming
machine user.
Background:
[002]    Gaming machines, including card gaming machines take a myriad of forms. Gaming
machines are designed to offer enjoyment, entertainment and pleasure. Some gaming machines
offer payouts, which add to the enjoyment of the game.
[003]     Some gaming machine platforms include systems for tracking the activity of the user on
gaming machines in an effort to continually improve user gaming experience. Other gaming
machine platforms don't offer activity tracking as a feature, although many prefer to track their
activity to become eligible additional rewards, bonuses and entertainment.
[004]    Card games played on gaming machines, and other games, can make use of bonus cards or
bonus chips, which are handed to the user. When the user plays a game on a gaming machine he or
she provides the chip or bonus card to the gaming machine, so that the gaming machine identifies
the identity of the user and tracks the activity of the user. A chip or bonus card may take the form
of a device having a smart card integrated circuit, or any electronically or magnetically readable
device, or simply a data code on a paper ticket.
[005]    Methods for tracking the activity of the user as known from the state of the art typically
require gaming machines or servers which are prepared to read and dispense the afore-mentioned
bonus cards or chips. For this reason it is cumbersome and expensive to upgrade an existing
gaming system, so as to make tracking of the activity of the user available. It is especially difficult
to extend an existing gaming machine with a bonus card- or chip reading-device, because gaming
machines typically have a user interface that is defined by hardware components. Modification to
this user interface, and other similar ones, would require a hardware upgrades that would be
economically inefficient, or infeasible.

                                                 -2
[006]    Users of gaming machines could benefit by improving their gaming experience from easy
upgrades and modifications to existing gaming machines. Ideally, any upgrade would improve
tracking of activity of a user of a gaming machine within a network of gaming machines, among
other possibilities. It is also desired to have improved enjoyment and game play for users by
applying simple upgrades to existing machines.
                                  SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[007]    The gaming machine is of the present invention is pre-configured with a ticket printer and
a ticket reader for printing and reading cash tickets, which function as cash. Further, the gaming
machine is adapted to employ the ticket printer and reader to also print and read tracking tickets,
respectively. This adaptation enables most gaming machines that print only cash tickets to be
upgraded to handle user tracking features that improve gaming experience, among other things.
[008]    The invention includes a method for tracking the activity of a user of a gaming machine
that is connected to a server with a database. The method is employed by a gaming machine that is
pre-equipped with a ticket printer and a ticket reader for printing and reading cash tickets,
respectively. Ideally a software program is introduced and stored on the gaming machine, or on a
network server, to enable the gaming machine to utilize user-tracking features. The invention
includes the software program, which may include firmware.
[009]    According to the inventive method, an account number is assigned to a user and a tracking
ticket is created for said user. In one embodiment, the tracking ticket includes a respective code for
the account number. The tracking ticket is printed and provided to the user. A record is created and
stored in the database and the account number being assigned to the record as a key value.
Accordingly, both a tracking ticket and a cash ticket are employed by various embodiments of the
present invention. The tracking ticket and the cash ticket are printable by a single (the same) ticket
printer and readable by a single (the same) ticket reader.
[0010] Before a game is started, a connection to the server is established and the tracking ticket is
read by the gaming machine. At the end of the game the tracking ticket or a further tracking ticket,
is provided to the user. A code encoding the account number is printed on this tracking ticket.

                                                 -3
Before or after or during the game a data packet comprising the account number of the ticket as
well as further gaming information, preferably an identification number of the gaming machine, a
time stamp, and information is pertaining to the results of the game.          This further gaming
information is also provided to the server and stored to the record having the same account number
as the packet.   Storing the further gaming information enables gaming system designers to have
freedom to design additional bonuses, bonus games, features and payouts based on the further
gaming information.
[0011] A software update can adapt various gaming machines to employ the methods of the
present invention. It is not necessary to add hardware components to an existing gaming machine,
such as ticket reader devices, because existing gaming machines typically include a ticket reader
and ticket writer (printer) in order to process cash tickets. However, a network interface may be
introduced to a non-networked gaming machine according to one embodiment of the invention.
[0012]    Accordingly, one significant benefit of the present invention is to retrofit an existing
gaming machine to employ the methods and software of the present invention.             Software, as
defined herein, includes updatable firmware and programmable code stored on a hard drive, solid
state memory, or other media.       Software may be updated en masse via a network server in
communication with the gaming machines, or by updating each machine.
[0013] In one embodiment, the tickets have a defined expiration date. In particular an account
number may be invalidated, terminated, or deleted after a predefined time limit, or at the defined
expiration date.   Preferably a time limit between one and ten days, as from the creation of the
record or as from the time, when last data were stored in the record and assigned to the account
number. The time for invalidation for the ticket can thus be pre-determined, or alternatively be
determined based on user account information. Invalidation may include deletion of the record.
[0014] Most preferably the invention can be carried out on a gaming machine which is already
equipped with a cash ticketing system. In this particular case it is provided, that a further cash
ticket, on which cash information is printed and encoded, is fed to the gaming machine and read by
the gaming machine before the beginning of the game. The cash information is normally altered
according to the results of the game. At the end of the game, preferably before printing the tracking

                                                   -4
ticket, the cash ticket is printed and provided to the user. The tracking ticket and the cash ticket are
printed by the ticket printer of the gaming machine and/or are read by the ticket reader of the
gaming machine. Accordingly, both a tracking ticket and a cash ticket are employed by various
embodiments of the present invention. The tracking ticket and the cash ticket are printable by a
single ticket printer and readable by a single ticket reader of the gaming machine.
[0015] In order to make use of the tracking information on the activity of the user it can be
provided, that before starting the game or during the game the record or parts of the record, whose
key equals the account number of the tracking ticket, is or are sent to the gaming machine, wherein
the gaming program of the gaming machine is modified according to said record.
[0016] In particular the motivation of users can be maintained or even raised with a bonus game or
more favourable initialization of the game, which is offered to the user, if a bonus game or a more
favourable initialization of the game is offered to the user, if the total number of entries or an
aggregation, preferably a sum, of entries of the record, such as the number of previously played
games or the gaming time, exceeds a predefined threshold value.
[0017] In order to pass on the account number via a ticket, it can be provided, that a code
corresponding to the account number is printed on the tracking ticket, and wherein said account
number is preferably encrypted before encoding and printing.
[0018] In order to reuse a ticket for multiple gaming events it can be provided that an erasable and
re-printable tracking ticket is provided to the user, wherein the ticket is erased after reading by the
gaming machine and re-printed before it is provided to the user.
[0019] In order to maintain the users privacy while tracking his or her information on an
individual and personalized account, it can be provided, that the one or more records exclusively
contain the account number and information relating to the games, wherein preferably personal
information is prohibited, sometimes by legal requirements, from being stored on said records.
This assures privacy for the gaming users.
[0020] The system in accordance with the present invention includes a plurality of gaming
machines and a gaming machine server that are networked. The gaming server provides a database
to store a plurality of records, each record having an account number as a key value.

                                                    -5
[0021] Each of the gaming machines comprises a gaming processor. Each of the gaming machines
comprises a ticket reader and a ticket printer, and a network interface for providing a data
connection to the database of the server. The account number is assigned to a user and a tracking
ticket is created for said user, wherein on the tracking ticket a respective code for the account
number is printed and provided to the user.
[0022]   Preferably the gaming processor is adapted for determining whether a ticket provided to
the ticket reader is a cash ticket or tracking ticket; and if a tracking ticket has been determined then
the gaming processor may generate a data packet comprising the account number of the tracking
ticket as well as further gaming information, preferably an identification number of the gaming
machine, and/or a time stamp, and/or information pertaining to results of the game. After
generating said data packet, the gaming processor sends said data packet to the server and causes
the server to store the packet with the record having the same account number as the packet.
[0023] Such a gaming system offers the possibility of tracking the activity of the user within the
framework of existing system hardware. The gaming system of the invention may be implemented
by adapting a system of the state of the art via a software modification. It is therefore not necessary
to modify the user interface or design of the gaming machine.
[0024] In order to have tickets with a defined expire date, the server comprises an invalidation unit
which invalidates records of the database after a predefined time limit, preferably from one to ten
days, as from the creation of the record or from the date of the latest record data change.
[0025] Most preferably the invention can be carried out on a gaming machine which is already
equipped with a cash ticketing system. In this particular case it is provided, that wherein the ticket
reader is prepared to read a cash ticket on which cash information is printed and encoded, and
wherein before, during or after the game the gaming processor amends the cash information
according to the results of the game and forces the ticket printer to print a new cash ticket on which
the amended cash information is printed and encoded, so that the ticket and the cash ticket are
printed by the same printer and read by the same ticket reader.

                                                    -6
[0026] In order to make use of the tracking information on the activity of the user it can be
provided, that wherein on receiving a query on an account number of a gaming machine, the server
provides the record having said account number to the respective gaming machine.
[0027] In particular the motivation of users can be maintained or even raised with a bonus game or
more favourable initialization of the game, which is offered to the user, if after reading a tracking
ticket the gaming processor of a gaming machine sends a query regarding the account number of
the ticket to the server and receives the record stored in the database having said account number.
The gaming processor compares the total number of entries of the record or an aggregation,
preferably a sum, of entries of the record, such as the number of previously played games or the
gaming time, with a threshold value and determines, if said predefined threshold value is exceeded.
The gaming processor is programmed to offer the user a bonus game or a more favourable
initialization of the game, if said threshold is exceeded.
[0028] In order to pass on the account number via a ticket, it can be provided, that the gaming
processor and/or the ticket printer is programmed to encode, and preferably to encrypt, the account
number before printing, and/or wherein the gaming processor and/or the ticket reader is
programmed to decode, and preferably to decrypt, the account number printed on the tracking
ticket before reading.
[0029] In order to reuse a ticket for multiple gaming events it can be provided that the ticket
printer is adapted to erase tickets and to and re-print erased tickets provided to the user, particularly
the ticket printer is adapted for erasing the tracking ticket after being read by the ticket reader.
[0030] In order to maintain the users privacy while tracking his or her information on an
individual and personalized account, it can be provided, that one or more records are provided to
exclusively contain the account number and information relating to the games, and/or wherein said
records do not comprise any personal information on the user.
                            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0031] Various examples of the invention are explained by reference to the drawings in which:

                                                   -7
 [0032] Fig. 1 schematically shows a typical system according to the preferred embodiment of a
gaming system.
 [0033] Fig. 2 schematically illustrates the system architecture of a gaming machine.
 [0034] Fig. 3 schematically illustrates a flow diagram for initialising a game.
 [0035] Fig. 4 shows a detail of Fig. 3 showing a variation of the game.
 [0036] Fig. 5 shows the content of the database which stores the activities of the user.
                                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
 [0037] Fig. 1 schematically shows a preferred example of the invention comprising a server 1 with
a database 11 and a plurality of gaming machines 2. The server 1 and the gaming machines 2 are
connected via a computer network 6, wherein the server 1 comprises a network interface 12 and
each of the gaming machines 2 comprises a network interface 23. Each of the gaming machines 2,
which are connected to the server 1 via the network 6 comprises a gaming processor 20 (Fig. 2)
and gaming peripherals. Each of the gaming machines 2 comprises a display 27 and a cash-out
button 26. The first gaming machine 2, which is shown on the left side of Fig. 1 comprises a single
joystick 28, the second gaming machine 2, which is schematically shown in the middle of Fig. 1
comprises a keyboard 29 and the third gaming machine 2, which is shown on the right side of
Fig. 1 comprises two joysticks 28. Each of the gaming machines 2 further comprises a ticket reader
21 and a ticket printer 22 for reading and printing tickets 3, 5.
 [0038] Fig. 2 schematically shows a gaming machine 2 of Fig. 1 in more detail. The gaming
machine 2 shown in Fig. 2 comprises a gaming processor 20, on which a computer program for
executing software implementing the respective game on the gaming machine 2 is run. The gaming
processor 20 is connected with the peripherals 26, 27, 28, 29 of the gaming machine 2. In this
preferred embodiment of a gaming machine 2 the gaming processor 20 is connected to the
computer network 6 via network interface 23. The gaming processor 20 is connected to a cash out
button 26, a display 27, a keyboard 29 and to a ticket reader 21 and a ticket printer 22. With the
ticket reader 21 and the ticket printer 22 of this embodiment of the invention it is possible to read in
tickets 3, 5 and print tickets 3, 5 with the same device. This device comprises only one slot, into

                                                 -8
which a ticket 3, 5 can be inserted and by which a printed ticket 3, 5 can be provided, i.e. the slot is
shared for the input and output of the tickets.
[0039] Each of the gaming machines 2 of this preferred embodiment of the invention is
programmed to read cash tickets 5 via the ticket reader 21 and to print cash tickets 5 via the ticket
printer 22. A cash ticket 5 may be handed to the user after the payment of a defined amount of
cash. Before the start of the game the cash ticket 5 is inserted into the ticket reader 21. If the
amount of cash stored in the cash information 51 is sufficient, the gaming processor 20 starts the
game. After the game the cash information 51 stored on the cash ticket 5 is changed according to
the results of the game. If for example the user wins a game the amount of cash, which is stored on
the cash ticket 5 is increased. If however the user loses the game a certain amount of the cash is
subtracted from the initial cash information 51. At the end of the game a cash ticket 5 is printed and
provided to the user, wherein the ticket printer 22 prints a new cash ticket 5 on which the changed
cash information 51 is printed.
[0040] In order to be able to track the activity of a user of the gaming machine 2 each of the
gaming machines 2 is connected to the server 1. The server 1 comprises a database 11, whose
contents are shown in Fig. 5. The database 11 provides a respective record 13 for each of the users,
wherein each record 13 is uniquely assigned to one of the users of the gaming machine 2. When
entering the Casino or before starting to play an account number 31 is assigned to the user. The
user is provided with a tracking ticket 3, on which a respective code for the account number 31 is
printed. When providing a tracking ticket 3 with an account number 31 to the user a record 13 of
the database 11 is created. The account number 31 is assigned to the record 13 as key value.
Therefore the respective record 13, which is assigned to the user can be accessed via the account
number 31 stored on the tracking ticket 3 of the user. Before the user starts to play on one of the
gaming machines 2 the record 13 assigned to the user is empty.
[0041] Before starting a game on the gaming machine 2 the user is invited to provide his tracking
ticket 3 to the gaming machine 2. The user inserts the tracking ticket 3 into the slot of the ticket
reader 21, which reads the information printed on the tracking ticket 3 and determines the account
number 31 stored on the tracking ticket 3. After reading the tracking ticket 3 the gaming machine 2

                                                   -9
invites the user to provide a cash ticket 5 and to start the game. Optionally, instead of the cash
ticket 5, bills and/or coins may be provided via a bill acceptor 61 and/or coin acceptor 62 of the
gaming machine 2 to start the game.
[0042] Fig. 3 shows a diagram that illustrates the initialization of a game. In a first step 100 a
tracking ticket 3, 5 provided by the user is read by the ticket reader 21. In a second step 110 the
gaming processor 20 determines whether the ticket 3, 5 provided by the user is a cash ticket 5 or a
tracking ticket 3. If the ticket 3, 5 provided by the user is a cash ticket 5 a game is started (step
140). If, however, the ticket 3, 5 provided by the user is not a cash ticket 5 then the gaming
processor 20 determines whether the ticket 3, 5 provided by the user is a tracking ticket 3 (step
120). The account number 31 of the tracking ticket 3 is provided to the gaming processor 20. If the
ticket 3, 5 provided by the user is neither a cash ticket 5 nor a tracking ticket 3 the user is invited to
provide a further ticket. If, however, the ticket 3, 5 provided by the user is a tracking ticket 3, then
an initialization step 130 for altering the game may be carried out. After this initialization step 130
the game is stored respectively ready for operation.
[0043] In Fig. 4 a preferred method for the initialization the game in a way more favourable to the
user is shown. In a first initialization step 131 the account number 31, which is stored on the
tracking ticket 3 is extracted. In a second step 132 the gaming processor 20 sends a query 7 to the
server 1 wherein the query 7 comprises the account number 31 stored on the tracking ticket 3. The
query 7 is sent by the gaming processor 20 via the network interface 23, the computer network 6
and the network interface 12 of the server 1 to the server 1.
[0044] In a further step 133 the server 1 processes the query 7 and identifies the record 13, which
is assigned to the account number 31 of the query 7. The server 1 sends the record 13, which is
assigned to the account number 31 to the gaming machine 2 via the computer network 6. The
gaming processor receives 134 and analyses the record 13.
[0045] If the total number of the entries or the number of previously paid games or the gaming
time exceeds a predefined threshold value, in this preferred example a threshold value of the
games, or 25 minutes, or a loss of a certain amount of money is used, the game provided by the
gaming controller 12 is initialized in a more favourable way to the user. In an initialization step 135

                                                - 10
of this very example of the invention additional bonus and/or free games are provided to be played
by the user.
[0046] After amending the game in the initialization step 135, the game is started (step 140). After
the end of the game the gaming processor 20 generates a data packet 4, which comprises the
account number of the tracking ticket 3 as well as further gaming information, namely an
identification number 42 of the gaming machine, a time stamp 43 and information of the results 44
of the game. In this example of the invention the results 44 of the game indicate the amount of cash
the user won or lost during the game. The packet 4 is sent to the server 1 as an update request.
When the server 1 obtains the data packet 4 the update request stored on that data packet is inserted
into the record 13 of the user.
[0047] Fig. 5 shows the contents of the database 1, wherein four users are registered to the system
and user is provided with a tracking respective ticket 3, each with different account numbers. The
first user was provided a ticket on which the account number "151" was stored. At 17:27 the first
user lost EUR 30,- on a gaming apparatus with an identification number "15", on at 19:30 the same
user won EUR 5,- a gaming apparatus with the identification number "17".
[0048] In order to avoid manipulations of the tracking tickets 3 the ticket printer 22 comprises a
decryption module, so that an encrypted code corresponding to the account number 31 is printed on
the tracking ticket 3. The account number 31 is encrypted before being printed on the tracking
ticket 3. The ticket reader 21 comprises a decryption module, which decrypts the code printed on
the ticket 3 and determines the account number 31 accordingly. As a separate measure or in
addition the operation of the gaming machine 2 may be such that the sequence of receiving the
tracking ticket 3 and issuing a new tracking ticket 3 shall be strictly adhered to. That is to say that
in case if the account number 31 has been recognized by the gaming system then this account
number 31 is locked until the regular new tracking ticket 3 is issued following the end of game
play. Optionally, in case if the account number 31 is in the locked state then the gaming system
may generate an alarm message, for instance to the system operator, in the case if an identical
account number 31 is being recognised within the gaming system.

                                                  - 11
[0049] In this preferred example of the invention the gaming apparatus 2 of the gaming system
comprises a ticket printer 22, which is adapted to erase and reprint tickets 3, 5. A tracking ticket 3
or cash ticket 5 which is provided to the gaming machine 2 by the user may be read by the ticket
reader 21 and afterwards erased by the ticket printer 22. After the end of the game an erased ticket
may be reprinted as the tracking ticket 3 or a cash ticket 5 and provided to the user.
[0050] A further embodiment of the invention uses reprintable tickets 3, 5. Again, a common unit
may be used, providing the functionality of the reader 21 and the printer 22. In this regard,
reference is made to U.S. patent U.S. 5854477 "Reusable ticket processing apparatus and ticket
regenerating apparatus", the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference.
[0051] The ticket may be coated with a UV light-sensitive chemical substance such that
information can be deleted on the paper by irradiation with ultraviolet light. Alternatively, the
paper may be coated with thermally sensitive substances.
[0052] Such thermal printing papers have covered on it, for example, in an unactivated state
colorless dye, known leuco dye, and a developer. The developer provides an activation of the dyes.
The application of heat melts and merges these materials, i.e. their molecules bind together in a
chemical reaction. Leuco dyes that have reacted with the developer may produce such as black,
blue and other colours. By separating back the coloured leuco dye and developer the colours are
"deleted", i.e. so that the displayed information is lost.
[0053] Staining and de-colouring are caused by differences in the effect of temperature on the
materials. The materials (leuco dyes, developer) melt at higher temperature Ti (for example, 160'
C) and subsequent quenching. Decolouration occurs if the paper is again heated, but to a slightly
lower temperature T2. The use of a thermal print head enables the selective use of temperature
fields in which colour is desired, for example, to produce text. Use of a heating roller to the entire
sheet makes it is possible to delete the text completely. The process of printing and deleting may be
carried out several/many times.
[0054] Alternatively, it is further possible, as disclosed in JP 2000154345 A (TOSHIBA), the
disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference, to use a deletable printer ink that can be
deleted by heat after being printed.

                                                  - 12
[0055] Even if it is possible to connect personal information of the user, such as name, address,
credit card number, telephone number etc. with the account number 31 of the user, the preferred
example of the invention avoids linking or connecting such a data in order to maintain the privacy
of the user. One or more records 13 exclusively contain the account number 31 and information
relating to the games. Personal information is prohibited to be stored on those records 13.
[0056] After a predefined time limit of for example five days as from its creation a record 13 is
invalidated and further gaming information 41, preferably the identification number of the gaming
machine 2 a time stamp or information 44 on the results of the game, are prohibited from storage.
Alternatively the time limit for storing data to an account may be determined as from the time
when the last data were stored to the record 13. A tracking ticket 3 becomes therefore invalid after
a time limit of non-use.
[0057] A tracking ticket 3 may be initially issued to the user (patron) at a register desk or self
register desk. Such a register desk may comprise a ticket printer and a data connection to the server
l and database 11.
[0058] While the present invention has been described in terms of various examples described in
the drawings and the written specification, it can be appreciated that variations in the invention are
contemplated herein.     The full scope of the present invention is particularly described in the
following claims. Also, where the term and/or is used herein, it is meant to have the broadest
interpretation and scope of the stated possibilities.

                                                  - 13
                                                CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1.      A method to enable tracking the activity of a user of a gaming machine comprising:
        providing a gaming machine comprising a ticket printer and ticket reader for printing and
reading cash tickets, respectively;
        providing a server with a database, the server being connected in communication with the
gaming machine;
         assigning an account number to a user;
        printing a tracking ticket for said user, the tracking ticket comprising a respective code for
the account number;
        creating a record in said database and assigning the said account number to the record as a
key value;
         determining whether a ticket provided to the ticket reader is a cash ticket or tracking ticket;
and
        if a tracking ticket has been determined then providing to the server a data packet
comprising the account number as well as further gaming information selected from the group
consisting of: an identification number of the gaming machine, a time stamp, and game results; and
         storing the data packet to the record .
2.      The method according to claim 1, wherein the account number is invalidated after a
predefined time limit, preferably a time limit between one and ten days, as from the creation of the
record or as from the time, when last data were stored in the record and assigned to the account
number.

                                                  - 14
3.       The method according to claim 1 or 2, feeding a cash ticket, on which cash information is
printed and/or encoded, to the gaming machine and reading the cash ticket by the gaming machine
before the beginning of the game;
         amending the cash information according to the results of the game;
         before printing the tracking ticket, printing the cash ticket and providing the cash ticket to
the user, and
         wherein the tracking ticket and the cash ticket are printed by the same ticket printer of the
gaming machine.
4.       The method according to claim 1, wherein at least a portion of the record, whose key
equals to the account number of the tracking ticket, is sent to the gaming machine, wherein the
gaming program of the gaming machine is modified according to said record.
5.       The method according to claim 4, further comprising offering a bonus game when a
threshold value of previous play is met according to the entries of record for a particular user, the
threshold value is chosen from the group consisting of: number of previous games played, and
amount of previous game play time for the particular user.
6.       The method according to claim 1 further comprising: printing a code corresponding to the
account number on the tracking ticket, and wherein said account number is encrypted.
7.       The method according to claim 1 further comprising: that the tracking ticket is erasable and
wherein information on the tracking ticket is erased after reading and is re-printed before it is
provided to the user.
8.       The method according to claim 1, wherein the one or more records exclusively contain the
account number and information relating to the games, wherein no information, personal to a user,
is stored on said records.

                                                 -15
9.       A gaming system for tracking the activity of a user of a gaming machine, the system
comprising a gaming server, and a plurality of gaming machines, the gaming server and the gaming
machines being connected via a network;
         the gaming server providing a database to store a plurality of records, each record having
an account number as a key value;
         each of the gaming machines comprising a gaming processor;
         each of the gaming machines comprising a ticket reader and a ticket printer, and
         a network interface for providing a data connection to the database of the server; and
         means for assigning an account number to the user; and wherein
a tracking ticket is creatable for the user, which tracking ticket features a respective code for the
account number; and
         means for determining whether a ticket provided to the ticket reader is a cash ticket or
tracking ticket; and if a tracking ticket has been determined then a data packet is generatable
comprising the account number of the tracking ticket as well as further gaming information, the
further gaming information is selected from the group consisting of: an identification number of the
gaming machine, a time stamp, and game results; and wherein
         the gaming processor sends said data packet to the server, which server is adapted for
storing the data packet with the record identified by the account number.
10.      The system according to claim 9, wherein the server comprises an invalidation unit which
invalidates a record of the database after a predefined time limit as from the creation of the record
or as from storing the last data in said record.
11.      The system according to claim 9 or 10, wherein the ticket reader is adapted to read a cash
ticket on which cash information is printed and/or encoded, and wherein the gaming processor is
adapted to amend before, during or after the game the cash information according to the results of
the game and to initiate the ticket printer to print a new cash ticket on which the amended cash

                                                   - 16
information is printed and encoded, wherein the tracking ticket and the cash ticket are printable by
the said ticket printer and readable by the said ticket reader.
12. The system according to claim 9, wherein after reading a tracking ticket the gaming processor
of a gaming machine is adapted to send a query regarding the account number of the ticket to the
server and to receive information with respect to the record stored in the database being assigned to
said account number,      the gaming processor being adapted to compare and/or to receive
information with respect to the total number of entries of the record or an aggregation, preferably a
sum, of entries of the record, such as the number of previously played games or the gaming time,
with a threshold value and to offer the user a bonus game if said threshold is exceeded.
13. The system according to any of the claims 9 to 12, wherein
         the gaming machine is programmed to encrypt the account number before printing, and
         the gaming machine is programmed to decrypt the account number printed on the tracking
ticket before reading.
14. The system according to any of the claims 9 to 13, wherein the ticket printer is adapted to erase
tickets and re-print erased tickets, wherein the ticket printer is adapted to erase the tracking ticket
after the ticket reader reads the tracking ticket.
15.      A computer program product loadable to the electronic memory of a digital computer of a
gaming machine, comprising software instructions for tracking the activity of a user of the gaming
machine comprising:
         providing a communication interface to a server including a database, the server being
connected in communication with the gaming machine;
         assigning an account number to a user;
         printing a tracking ticket for said user, the tracking ticket comprising a respective code for
the account number;

                                                  -17
         creating a record in said database and assigning the said account number to the record as a
key value;
         determining whether a ticket provided to the ticket reader is a cash ticket or tracking ticket;
and if a tracking ticket has been determined then providing a data packet to the server comprising
the account number of the ticket as well as further gaming information, preferably an identification
number of the gaming machine, and/or a time stamp, and/or information on the results of the game;
and
         storing the data packet to the record being identified by the account number.
16.      The computer program according to claim 15, wherein an account number is invalidated
after a predefined time limit, preferably a time limit between one and ten days, as from the creation
of the record or as from the time, when last data were stored in the record and assigned to the
account number.
                                         Novomatic AG
                 Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                   SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
