     METHOD OF NOCICEPTOR DIFFERENTIANTION OF HUMAN EMBRYONIC STEM
                                  CELLS AND USES THEREOF
Abstract
         The present invention relates to the field of stem cell biology, in particular the linage
specific differentiation of pluripotent or multipotent stem cells, which can include, but is not
limited to, human embryonic stem cells (hESC), human induced pluripotent stem cells
(hiPSC), somatic stem cells, cancer stem cells, or any other cell capable of lineage specific
differentiation. Specifically described are methods to direct the lineage specific differentiation
of hESC and/or hiPSC to nociceptors (i.e. nociceptor cells) using novel culture conditions.
The nociceptors made using the methods of the present invention are further contemplated
for various uses including, but limited to, use in in vitro drug discovery assays, pain research,
and as a therapeutic to reverse disease of, or damage to, the peripheral nervous system
(PNS). Further, compositions and methods are provided for producing melanocytes from
human pluripotent stem cells for use in disease modeling.
(10130429 1):MGH

         METHOD OF NOCICEPTOR DIFFERENTIATION OF HUMAN
                 EMBRYONIC STEM CELLS AND USES THEREOF
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
 5         The present invention relates to the field of stem cell biology, in particular the linage
   specific differentiation of pluripotent or multipotent stem cells, which can include, but is not
   limited to, human embryonic stem cells (hESC), human induced pluripotent stem cells
   (hiPSC), somatic stem cells, cancer stem cells, or any other cell capable of lineage specific
   differentiation. Specifically described are methods to direct the lineage specific
10 differentiation of hESC and/or hiPSC to nociceptors (i.e. nociceptor cells) using novel culture
   conditions. The nociceptors made using the methods of the present invention are further
   contemplated for various uses including, but limited to, use in in vitro drug discovery assays,
   pain research, and as a therapeutic to reverse disease of, or damage to, the peripheral nervous
   system (PNS). Further, compositions and methods are provided for producing melanocytes
15 from human pluripotent stem cells for use in disease modeling.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
           Embryonic and somatic stem cells have the ability to differentiate into any cell type;
   they are therefore uniquely suited for cell replacement therapies for diseases which ravish, or
20 damage/injury to, a defined cell population. Beyond their direct therapeutic value, lineage
   specific differentiated stem cells are also valuable research tools for a variety of purposes
   including in vitro screening assays to identify, confirm, test for specification or delivery of
   therapeutic molecules to treat lineage specific disease, further elucidation of the complex
   mechanisms of cell lineage specification and differentiation, and identifying critical
25 biochemical differences between normal and diseased or damaged states which can be further
   contemplated for use as diagnostic or prognostic markers.
           The power of embryonic and somatic stem cells as therapeutics and model systems
   for neurodegenerative diseases has been well explored. However, much of the research and
   technological developments relating to directed differentiation of embryonic and somatic
30 stem cells has taken place in the field of diseases of the central nervous system (CNS), such
   as Huntington's, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and multiple sclerosis. There is a current lack of
   knowledge relating to the directed differentiation of embryonic and somatic stem cells toward
                                                    1

   lineages of the peripheral nervous system (PNS). The PNS is comprised of the somatic
   nervous system, which coordinates muscular-skeletal control and sensation of external
   stimuli, and the autonomic nervous system, which regulates inner organ function such as
   heartbeat and respiration. There are multiple diseases of the PNS including Charcot-Marie
 5 Tooth disease, Gillian Barre Syndrome, and Hirschsprung's disease. Diseases of peripheral
   sensory neurons of the PNS are of particular societal burden because they result in severe
   pain or failure to respond to noxious stimuli causing injury and include diseases such as
   Familial Dysautonomia, congenital insensitivity to pain, diabetic neuropathies, and damage
   due to infections of Varicella or herpes zoster.
10         Understanding the pathology of peripheral sensory neuron diseases, as well as
   development of treatment modalities, is hindered by the difficulties in obtaining human
   peripheral sensory neurons; current methods are limited to manual isolation from 3-5 week
   old human embryos or rare surgical procedures. The directed differentiation of embryonic
   stem cells or somatic stem cells into specified peripheral sensory neurons, in particular
15 nociceptors which are the pain sensing peripheral sensory neurons, would be an ideal
   reproducible source of such cells for both research and therapeutic application. Recent
   attempts to produce peripheral sensory neurons from neuronal intermediates derived from
   embryonic stem cells have been made. However, these techniques are limited by the need for
   a neuronal intermediate, co-culture with murine stromal cells, length of time to derive such
20 peripheral sensory neurons, low yield, impure populations of cells containing mixed neuronal
   types, limited survival and poor characterization of PNS generated neurons.
            Therefore there is a need in the art for a method to produce peripheral sensory
   neurons, in particular nociceptors, directly from embryonic or somatic stem cells without the
   use of contaminating murine stromal cells with increased purity and yield.
25
                                                      2

   SUMMARY OF INVENTION
            The present invention relates to the field of stem cell biology, in particular the linage
   specific differentiation of pluripotent or multipotent stem cells, which can include, but is not
   limited to, human embryonic stem cells (hESC), human induced pluripotent stem cells
 5 (hiPSC), somatic stem cells, cancer stem cells, or any other cell capable of lineage specific
   differentiation. Specifically described are methods to direct the lineage specific
   differentiation of hESC and/or hiPSC to nociceptors (i.e. nociceptor cells) using novel culture
   conditions. The nociceptors made using the methods of the present invention are further
   contemplated for various uses including, but limited to, use in in vitro drug discovery assays,
10 pain research, and as a therapeutic to reverse disease of, or damage to, the peripheral nervous
   system (PNS). Further, compositions and methods are provided for producing melanocytes
   from human pluripotent stem cells for use in disease modeling.
            It is an object of the present invention to overcome the limitations and/or mitigate the
   deficiencies in the field. In one embodiment, the present invention provides a method of
15 producing nociceptors comprising i) obtaining stem cells (for example, hESCs, hiPSCs,
   somatic stem cells, cancer stem cells, human or mammalian pluripotent cells, etc.); ii)
   culturing said stem cell under conditions that inhibit dual SMAD signaling; and iii) further
   culturing said cells under conditions which inhibit FGF and Notch signaling and activate Wnt
   signaling. As used herein, the term "inhibit" or "block" means a reduction in the level of
20 activity of a particular signaling pathway of a cell upon treatment with a compound (i.e. an
   inhibitor) compared to the activity of said signaling pathway of a cell that is left untreated
   with such compound or treated with a control. As used herein, the term "activate" means an
   increase in the level of activity of a particular signaling pathway of a cell upon treatment with
   a compound (i.e. an activator) compared to the activity of said signaling pathway of a cell
25 that is left untreated with such compound or treated with a control. Any level of inhibition or
   activation of a particular signaling pathway is considered an embodiment of the invention if
   such inhibition or activation results in the directed differentiation of a stem cell. In one
   embodiment, the methods for culture include conditions for a feeder-free system. In one
   embodiment, the stem cells are cultured in a monolayer. In a preferred embodiment the
30 method for culture contemplates the use of media that contains the compounds SB431542,
   LDN1933189, SU5402, CHIR99021, and DAPT. In one embodiment, the differentiated cell
   is at least 10% up to 100% of the population of the cultured cells. In one embodiment, the
   differentiated cell expresses one or more markers from the group comprising ISLI, BRN3A,
                                                      3

   RET, RUNX1, and NTRK1. In one embodiment, expression of said marker(s) is expressed
   in at least 10% up to 100% of the population of the cultured cells. In a preferred
   embodiment, the differentiated cell is a nociceptor. In a preferred embodiment, the stem cell
   is a hESC or a hiPSC.
 5          In one embodiment, the present invention provides a kit comprising i) a first inhibitor,
   or combination of inhibitors, that blocks both SMAD signaling and TGFj/Activin-Nodal
   signaling; ii) a second inhibitor that blocks FGF signaling; iii) a third inhibitor that blocks
   Notch signaling; and iv) an activator of Wnt signaling. In one embodiment, the first
   inhibitor(s) is/are selected from the group comprising LDN193189 and SB431542, a
10 combination thereof and mixture thereof In one embodiment, the second inhibitor comprises
   SU5402 and derivatives thereof. In one embodiment, the third inhibitor comprises of DAPT
   and derivatives thereof In one embodiment, an activator comprises CHIR99021 and
   derivatives thereof In one embodiment, the kit further comprises a human stem cell. In one
   embodiment, the kit further provides instructions to practice the present invention.
15          In one embodiment, the invention provides a kit comprising i) a first inhibitor, or
   combination of inhibitors, that blocks both SMAD signaling and TGFj/Activin-Nodal
   signaling; ii) a second inhibitor that blocks FGF signaling; iii) a third inhibitor that blocks
   Notch signaling; and iv) an activator of Wnt signaling. In one embodiment, said first
   inhibitor(s) is selected from the group comprising SB431542, LDN193189, combination
20 thereof and mixture thereof In one embodiment, said second inhibitor comprises SU5402 and
   derivatives thereof In one embodiment, said third inhibitor comprises DAPT and derivatives
   thereof. In one embodiment, said activator comprises CHIR99021 and derivatives thereof In
   one embodiment, said kit further comprises instructions. In one embodiment, said kit further
   comprises a human stem cell. In one embodiment, said human stem cell is a human
25 embryonic stem cell. In one embodiment, said human stem cell is a human induced
   pluripotent stem cell.
            The present invention further contemplates methods for assessing the peripheral
   sensory neuronal subtype of the differentiated stem cells. Certain embodiments of this
   method can utilize microscopic analysis, functional assays, measurement of expression or
30 downregulation of markers associated with particular lineages. In a preferred embodiment,
   the method comprises of measuring markers associated with nociceptor specification selected
   from the group comprising ISLI, BRN3A, RET, RUNX1, and NTRK1.
                                                   4

            In one embodiment, the invention provides a method for inducing directed
   differentiation of a stem cell, comprising a) providing: i) a cell culture comprising human
   stem cells ii) a first a first inhibitor, or combination of inhibitors, that blocks both SMAD
   signaling and TGFj/Activin-Nodal signaling; iii) a second inhibitor that blocks FGF
 5 signaling; iv) a third inhibitor that blocks Notch signaling; and v) an activator of Wnt
   signaling, b) contacting said stem cell with said first a first inhibitor, or combination of
   inhibitors, that blocks both SMAD signaling and TGFp/Activin-Nodal signaling for 0-48H
   (more typically 1-48 hours) in vitro, and c) further contacting said stem cell with a second
   inhibitor that blocks FGF signaling; a third inhibitor that blocks Notch signaling; and an
10 activator of Wnt signaling for up to an additional 192 hours (or even up to 240 hours). In one
   embodiment, said first inhibitor(s) is selected from the group comprising SB431542,
   LDN193189, combination thereof and mixture thereof. In one embodiment, said second
   inhibitor comprises SU5402 and derivatives thereof. In one embodiment, said third inhibitor
   comprises DAPT and derivatives thereof. In one embodiment, said activator comprises
15 CHIR99021 and derivatives thereof. In one embodiment, said stem cell is a human
   embryonic stem cell. In one embodiment, said stem cell is a human induced pluripotent stem
   cell. In one embodiment, said differentiated cell is a neuronal cell. In one embodiment, said
   neuronal cell is a nociceptor. In one embodiment, said differentiated cell expresses one or
   marker(s) from the group comprising ISL1, BRN3A, RET, RUNXl, and NTRK1. In one
20 embodiment, said differentiated cell responds to external stimuli.
            The present invention further contemplates uses of the nociceptors generated by a
   method of the present invention. In one embodiment, the nociceptors are used in in vitro
   assays to identify compounds that can be used as anti-pain therapeutics. In one embodiment,
   the nociceptors are used to study the function of nociceptors. In one embodiment, the
25 nociceptors are used as an in vivo cell replacement therapy in an animal suffering from, or at
   risk for, damage or disease of the PNS.
            In one embodiment, the invention provides a method of screening biological agents,
   comprising, a) providing: i) a nociceptor, and ii) a test compound b) contacting said
   nociceptor with said test compound and measuring activation or inhibition of nociceptor
30 function. In one embodiment, said nociceptor is derived from a human stem cell.
            In one embodiment, the invention provides a kit comprising a first signaling inhibitor,
   a second signaling inhibitor and a third signaling inhibitor, wherein said first inhibitor is
   capable of lowering transforming growth factor beta (TGFp)/Activin-Nodal signaling, said
                                                      5

   second inhibitor is capable of lowering Small Mothers Against Decapentaplegic (SMAD)
   signaling and said third inhibitor is capable of lowering glycogen synthase kinase 3P
   (GSK3p) for activation of wingless (Wnt) signaling. In one embodiment, said first inhibitor is
   a small molecule selected from the group consisting of SB431542, derivatives thereof and
 5 mixtures thereof. In one embodiment, said second inhibitor is a small molecule selected from
   the group consisting of LDN193189, derivatives thereof and mixtures thereof. In one
   embodiment, said third inhibitor is selected from the group consisting of CHIR99021 and
   derivatives thereof. In one embodiment, said kit further comprises a fourth inhibitor that
   lowers fibroblast growth factor (FGF) receptor family signaling, wherein said FGF receptor
10 family signaling comprises vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) receptors, fibroblast
   growth factor (FGF) receptors and platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) tyrosine kinase
   receptors. In one embodiment, said fourth inhibitor is selected from the group consisting of
   SU5402 and derivatives thereof. In one embodiment, said kit further comprises a fifth
   inhibitor capable of lowering Notch signaling. In one embodiment, said fifth inhibitor is
15 selected from the group consisting of N-[N-(3,5-Difluorophenacetyl)-L-alanyl]-S
   phenylglycine t-butyl ester (DAPT) and derivatives thereof In one embodiment, said kit
   further comprises antibodies used for the detection of expression of protein(s) selected from
   the group consisting of nestin, OCT4, PAX6, TUJI, SOX10, NTRK1, ISL1, POU4F1
   (BRN3A), NEUROG2, NEUROGI, MAP2, OTX2, DLKl, DKK1, CUZD1, MSX1, ID2,
20 AP2B, ETS1, FOXD3, NGN1, DCX, TUBB3, SYT4, STMN2, INA, GAP43, TACl,
   VGLUT2, SLC15A3, and TRPV1. In one embodiment, said kit further comprises PCR
   primers for the detection of mRNA expression of genes selected from the group consisting of
   nestin, OCT4, PAX6, TUJ1, SOX10, NTRK1, ISLI, POU4F1 (BRN3A), NEUROG2,
   NEUROGI, MAP2, OTX2, DLK1, DKK1, CUZD1, MSXl, ID2, AP2B, ETS1, FOXD3,
25 NGN1, DCX, TUBB3, SYT4, STMN2, INA, GAP43, TAC1, VGLUT2, SLC15A3, and
   TRPV1. In one embodiment, said kit further comprises antibodies used for the detection of
   expression of protein(s) selected from the group consisting of Protachykinin-1 (TAC1),
   vesicular glutamate transporter 2 (VGLUT2) and solute carrier family 15, member 3
   (SLC15A3). In one embodiment, said kit further comprises PCR primers for the detection of
30 mRNA expression of genes selected from the group consisting of Protachykinin-1 (TAC1),
   vesicular glutamate transporter 2 (VGLUT2) and solute carrier family 15, member 3
   (SLC 1 5A3). In one embodiment, said kit further comprises instructions comprising steps for
   adding the first and second inhibitor two days before adding the third inhibitor. In one
                                                    6

   embodiment, said kit further comprises instructions comprising steps for adding the first and
   second inhibitor two days before adding a combination of said third inhibitor, said fourth
   inhibitor and said fifth inhibitor. In one embodiment, said kit further comprises instructions
   comprising steps for daily feedings of said inhibitors in order on Days 0-10. In one
 5 embodiment, said kit further comprises instructions comprising steps for making neural stem
   cell precursors and making nociceptor cells. In one embodiment, said kit further comprises a
   human stem cell. In one embodiment, said human stem cell is a human embryonic stem cell.
   In one embodiment, said human stem cell is a human induced pluripotent stem cell. In one
   embodiment, said human stem cell is a transgenic SOXI0::GFP bacterial artificial
10 chromosome (BAC) human puripotent stem cell (hPSC).
            In one embodiment, the invention provides a method for inducing directed
   differentiation of a stem cell, comprising a) providing: i) a cell culture comprising human
   stem cells; and ii) a first signaling inhibitor, a second signaling inhibitor and a third signaling
   inhibitor, wherein said first inhibitor is capable of lowering transforming growth factor beta
15 (TGFf)/Activin-Nodal signaling, said second inhibitor is capable of lowering Small Mothers
   Against Decapentaplegic (SMAD) signaling and said third inhibitor is capable of lowering
   glycogen synthase kinase 3P (GSK3) for activation of wingless (Wnt) signaling;
   b)contacting said stem cell with said first and said second inhibitor for up to 48 (or even up to
   96) hours in vitro; and c) further contacting said inhibited stem cell with said third inhibitor
20 for up to an additional 192 hours (or even up to 240 hours) for inducing directed
   differentiation of a stem cell, wherein said differentiated stem cell is selected from the group
   consisting of a neural crest stem cell, a neural crest lineage cell and a neuronal lineage cell. In
   one embodiment, said first inhibitor is a small molecule selected from the group consisting of
   SB431542, derivatives thereof and mixtures thereof. In one embodiment, said second
25 inhibitor is a small molecule selected from the group consisting of LDN193189, derivatives
   thereof and mixtures thereof. In one embodiment, said third inhibitor is selected from the
   group consisting of CHIR99021 and derivatives thereof. In one embodiment, said kit further
   comprises a fourth inhibitor that lowers fibroblast growth factor (FGF) receptor family
   signaling, wherein said FGF receptor family signaling comprises vascular endothelial growth
30 factor (VEGF) receptors, fibroblast growth factor (FGF) receptors and platelet-derived
   growth factor (PDGF) tyrosine kinase receptors. In one embodiment, said fourth inhibitor is
    selected from the group consisting of SU5402 and derivatives thereof. In one embodiment,
    said kit further comprises a fifth inhibitor capable of lowering Notch signaling. In one
                                                      7

   embodiment, said fifth inhibitor is selected from the group consisting of N-[N-(3,5
   Difluorophenacetyl)-L-alanyl]-S-phenylglycine t-butyl ester (DAPT) and derivatives thereof.
   In one embodiment, said kit further comprises a fourth inhibitor and a fifth inhibitor, wherein
   said fourth inhibitor is selected from the group consisting of SU5402 and derivatives thereof,
 5 wherein said fifth inhibitor is selected from the group consisting of N-[N-(3,5
   Difluorophenacetyl)-L-alanyl]-S-phenylglycine t-butyl ester (DAPT) and derivatives thereof
   for directed differentiated of a neuronal lineage cell into a peptidergic nociceptor cell. In one
   embodiment, said peptidergic nociceptor cell expresses a marker selected from the group
   consisting of OCT4, DLK1, PAX6, SOX1O, POU4F1 (BRN3A), ISLI, NEUROG2,
10 NEUROGI, NTRKI, RET, RUNXl, VGLUT2, TAC1, and TRPV1. In one embodiment,
   said peptidergic nociceptor cell expresses a marker selected from the group consisting of
   ISLI, POU4F1 (BRN3A), RET, RUNX1, and NTRK1. In one embodiment, said marker is
   selected from the group consisting of a protein and a nucleic acid. In one embodiment, said
   peptidergic nociceptor cell co-expresses Substance P and Calcitonin gene related peptide
15 (CGRP). In one embodiment, said peptidergic nociceptor cell produces an action potential in
   response to external stimuli, wherein said external stimuli is an electrical current. In one
   embodiment, said differentiated peptidergic nociceptor cell is present within a highly
   enriched populations of neurons within 8 to 18 days and more typically 10-15 days after
   contacting said stem cell with said first and said second inhibitor. In one embodiment, said
20 stem cell is a human embryonic stem cell. In one embodiment, said stem cell is a human
   induced pluripotent stem cell.
           In one embodiment, the invention provides method of screening a biological agent in
   vitro, comprising, a) providing: i) a nociceptor cell derived in vitro from directed
   differentiation of a stem cell; and ii) a test compound; and b) contacting said nociceptor cell
25 with said test compound and measuring nociceptor function, wherein said function is
   measurement of an action potential. In one embodiment, said nociceptor cell is derived from
   a human stem cell.
           In one embodiment, the invention provides a kit for directed differentiation of a
   melanocyte.
30         In one embodiment, the invention provides a method for directed differentiation of a
   melanocyte.
           In one embodiment, the invention provides a method for providing melanocyte
   lineage cell populations.
                                                     8

            In one embodiment, the invention provides a method for providing mature melanocyte
   cell populations.
   DEFINITIONS
 5         As used herein, the term "kit" refers to any delivery system for delivering materials.
   In the context of cell differentiation, a kit may refer to a combination of materials for
   contacting stem cells, such delivery systems include systems that allow for the storage,
   transport, or delivery of reaction reagents (e.g., compounds, proteins, detection agents (such
   as PAX6 antibodies), etc. in the appropriate containers (such as tubes, etc.) and/or supporting
10 materials (e.g., buffers, written instructions for performing cell differentiation, etc.) from one
   location to another. For example, kits include one or more enclosures (e.g., boxes, or bags,
   test tubes, Eppendorf tubes, capillary tubes, multiwell plates, and the like) containing relevant
   reaction reagents for inhibiting signaling pathways, for example, an inhibitor for lowering
   transforming growth factor beta (TGFIp)/Activin-Nodal signaling, such as SB431542 (or a
15 SB431542 replacement), and the like, an inhibitor for lowering SMAD signaling, LDN
   193189 (or a LDN- 193189 replacement), and the like, an inhibitor for lowering glycogen
   synthase kinase 33 (GSK3p), for one example, for repressed signaling of p-catenin, for
   activation of wingless (Wnt or Wnts) signaling otherwise known as a WNT signaling
   activator (WNT agonist), such as CHIR99021 (or a CHIR99021 replacement), etc.), and the
20 like, an inhibitor of FGF family receptor signaling, including lowering fibroblast growth
   factor (FGF) receptor family signaling, wherein said FGF receptor family signaling
   comprises vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) receptors, fibroblast growth factor
   (FGF) receptors, and platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) tyrosine kinase receptor
   signaling, such as SU5402 (or a SU5402 replacement), and the like, an inhibitor of Notch
25 signaling, such as DAPT (or a DAPT replacement), and the like, and/or supporting materials.
   The reagents in the kit in one embodiment may be in solution, may be frozen, or may be
   lyophilized. The reagents in the kit in one embodiment may be in individual containers or
   provided as specific combinations, such as a combination of LSB, 3i, CHIR, Mel reagents,
   and the like.
30          As used herein, the term "signaling" in reference to a "signal transduction protein"
   refers to proteins that are activated or otherwise affected by ligand binding to a membrane
   receptor protein or some other stimulus. Examples of signal transduction protein include a
    SMAD, a WNT complex protein, including beta-catnin, NOTCH, transforming growth factor
                                                     9

   beta (TGFP), Activin, Nodal and glycogen synthase kinase 3fP (GSK3 P) proteins. For many
   cell surface receptors or internal receptor proteins, ligand-receptor interactions are not
   directly linked to the cell's response. The ligand activated receptor must first interact with
   other proteins inside the cell before the ultimate physiological effect of the ligand on the cell's
 5 behavior is produced. Often, the behavior of a chain of several interacting cell proteins is
   altered following receptor activation or inhibition. The entire set of cell changes induced by
   receptor activation is called a signal transduction mechanism or signaling pathway.
            As used herein, the term "NOTCH" refers to a signaling pathway represented by at
   least five ligands, (for example, termed Jagged-1, -2, and Delta-like (Dll)-1, -3, and -4) that
10 bind to one or more of at least four Notch receptors (termed Notch-1, -2, -3, and -4). Notch
   signaling is initiated by a receptor-ligand interaction resulting in at least one proteolytic
   cleavage by TACE (TNF-alpha-converting enzyme) and/or a gamma-secretase/presenilin
   complex. This proteolytic cleavage results in the release of an intracellular domain protein
   (N1c, the functionally active form of Notch), which translocates to the nucleus and binds
15 CBF-1 (also termed CSL or RBP-Jkappa), a DNA-binding protein. binding of Nic to CBF-l
   displaces the repressor complex and recruits nuclear coactivators such as MAMLI and
   histone acetyltransferases converting CBF- 1 into a transcriptional activator. CBF- 1/Notch
   interactions result in the expression of various target genes including Hes (Hairy/Enhancer of
   Split), Hey (Hairy/Enhancer of Split related with YRPW (also known as HesR, HRT, HERP,
20 CHF, and gridlock)), NF-kappaB, and PPAR families of transcription factors, and cell cycle
   regulators such as p21CIAlX"      and cyclin D, as one example. Hes (including Hes-1) and Hey
   (including Heyl and Hey2) family members are examples of transcription factors that are
   direct downstream targets of Notch activation. Given the complexity of the Notch signaling
   pathway, it is understandably difficult to predict the outcome of Notch activation or
25 inhibition. Not only are there multiple Notch receptors and ligands (each with a unique
   expression pattern), but the large number of target genes and potential crosstalk between
   Notch and other signaling cascades further complicate the system.
            As used herein, the term "signals" refer to internal and external factors that control
   changes in cell structure and function. They are chemical or physical in nature.
30          As used herein, the term "ligand" refers to molecules and proteins that bind to
   receptors (R), examples include but are not limited to transforming growth factor-beta,
   activins, nodal, bone morphogenic proteins (BMPs), etc.
                                                    10

            As used herein, the term "inhibitor" in reference to inhibiting a signaling molecule or
   a signaling molecule's pathway a "signaling inhibitor", such as an inhibitor of SMAD
   signaling, refers to a compound or molecule (e.g., small molecule, peptide, peptidomimetic,
   natural compound, siRNA, anti sense nucleic acid, aptamer, or antibody) that interferes with
 5 (i.e. reduces or suppresses or eliminates or blocks) the signaling function of the molecule or
   pathway. In other words, an inhibitor is any compound or molecule that changes any activity
   of a named protein (signaling molecule, any molecule involved with the named signaling
   molecule, a named associated molecule, such as a glycogen synthase kinase 3P (GSK3p))
   (e.g., including, but not limited to, the signaling molecules described herein), for one
10 example, via directly contacting SMAD signaling, contacting SMAD mRNA, causing
   conformational changes of SMAD, decreasing SMAD protein levels, or interfering with
   SMAD interactions with signaling partners (e.g., including those described herein), and
   affecting the expression of SMAD target genes (e.g. those described herein). Inhibitors also
   include molecules that indirectly regulate SMAD biological activity by intercepting upstream
15 signaling molecules (e.g. Within the extracellular domain, examples of a signaling molecule
   and an effect include: Noggin which sequesters bone morphogenic proteins, inhibiting
   activation of ALK receptors 1,2,3, and 6, thus preventing downstream SMAD activation.
   Likewise, Chordin, Cerberus, Follistatin, similarlly sequester extracellular activators of
   SMAD signaling. Bambi, a transmembrane protein, also acts as a pseudo-receptor to
20 sequester extracellular TGFb signaling molecules. Antibodies that block activins, nodal,
   TGFb, and BMPs are contemplated for use to neutralize extracellular activators of SMAD
   signaling, and the like). Thus in one embodiment, an inhibitor of the present inventions
   induces (changes) or alters differentiation from a default to a non-default cell type, for
   example, one of the methods of the present inventions comprising at least 3 inhibitors that
25 produced a non-default neural progenitor cell. In a preferred embodiment, an inhibitor of the
   present inventions "alters" or "lowers" or "blocks" default signaling in order to direct cellular
   differentiation towards a nondefault cell type, such as described herein for producing
   nociceptor cells of the present inventions. Thus, an inhibitor of the present inventions is a
   natural compound or small molecule for increased or decreased signal molecule activity that
30 assists in producing nociceptor cells of the present inventions. Inhibitors are described in
   terms of competitive inhibition (binds to the active site in a manner as to exclude or reduce
   the binding of another known binding compound) and allosteric inhibition (binds to a protein
   in a manner to change the protein conformation in a manner which interferes with binding of
                                                     11

   a compound to that protein's active site) in addition to inhibition induced by binding to and
   affecting a molecule upstream from the named signaling molecule that in turn causes
   inhibition of the named molecule. In some cases, an inhibitor is referred to as a "direct
   inhibitor" which refers to inhibiting a signaling target or a signaling target pathway by
 5 actually contacting the signaling target; for example, a direct inhibitor of a gamma secretase
   is a DAPT molecule that binds to the gamma secretase protein. Exemplary direct inhibitors
   include but are not limited to: lidocaine, myricitrin, chronic capsaicin, camphor, amiloride,
   capsazepine, linopirdine, and most local anesthetics that block general nerve function.
           As used herein, the term "extracellular signaling influences" refers to the effect that
10 extracellular signaling molecules (e.g., test agents such as small molecules described herein,
   pharmaceutical agents, ligands to a receptor, cytokines, chemokines, soluble factors, adhesion
   molecules, or other signaling molecules) have on a cell (e.g., a eukaryotic cell). In some
   embodiments, extracellular signaling reduces signaling activity, such as SMAD activity,
   alters SMAD activation kinetics, or alters SMAD target gene expression pattern.
15         As used herein, the term "Sma Mothers Against Decapentaplegic" or "Small Mothers
   Against Decapentaplegic" or "SMAD" refers to a signaling molecule.
           As used herein, the term "activator" "activating" refers to compounds for activating
   molecules resulting in directed differentiation of cells of the present inventions. Exemplary
   activators include but are not limited to: noxious heat/cold, mechanical stimulation, chemical
20 stimuli (menthol, piperine, acute capsaicin, cinnamaldehyde, bradykinin, ATP,
   prostaglandins, inflammatory cytokines, acidic saline, fibroblast growth factor (FGF), etc).
           As used herein, the tern "LSB" refers to a combination of two compounds LDN
   193189 and SB431542 capable of lowering or blocking signaling consisting of transforming
   growth factor beta (TGFj)/Activin-Nodal signaling and Small Mothers Against
25 Decapentaplegic (SMAD) signaling in a cell.
           As used herein, the term "SB431542" refers to a molecule capable of lowering or
   blocking transforming growth factor beta (TGF$)/Activin-Nodal signaling with a number
   CAS 301836-41-9, a molecular formula of C22H18N403 and a name of 4-[4-(1,3-benzodioxol
   5-yl)-5-(2-pyridinyl)-1H-imidazol-2-yl]-benzamide, for example, see structure below:
30
                                                   12

                N               0
                H                NH2
           As used herein, the term "LDN193189" refers to a small molecule DM-3189, IUPAC
   name 4-(6-(4-(piperazin-1-yl)phenyl)pyrazolo[1,5-a]pyrimidin-3-yl)quinoline, with a
   chemical formula of C 2 5 H2 2 No. LDN193189 is capable of functioning as a SMAD signaling
 5 inhibitor,. LDN193189 is also highly potent small-molecule inhibitor of ALK2, ALK3, and
   ALK6, protein tyrosine kinases (PTK), inhibiting signaling of members of the ALKI and
   ALK3 families of type I TGF3 receptors, resulting in the inhibition of the transmission of
   multiple biological signals, including the bone morphogenetic proteins (BMP) BMP2, BMP4,
   BMP6, BMP7, and Activin cytokine signals and subsequently SMAD phosphorylation of
10 Smad1, Smad5, and Smad8 (Yu et al. (2008) Nat Med 14:1363-1369; Cuny et al. (2008)
   Bioorg. Med. Chem. Lett. 18: 4388-4392, herein incorporated by reference).
                                             HNN
           As used herein, the term "Dorsomorphin" refers to a molecule with a number CAS
15 866405-64-3, a molecular formula C2 4 H2 5N 50 and a name of 6-[4-[2-(1
   Piperidinyl)ethoxy]phenyl]-3-(4-pyridinyl)-p yrazolo[1,5-a]pyrimidine dihydrochloride, for
   example, see structure below.
                                    N
                                       N
                      .2H C I
                                  N
                                         / N
20         As used herein, the term "LSB/C" or "LSB-C" refers to a combination of two
   compounds, such as LDN-193189 and SB431542, which are capable of combined lowering
   or blocking of signaling consisting of transforming growth factor beta (TGFP)/Activin-Nodal
   signaling and Small Mothers Against Decapentaplegic (SMAD) signaling of a cell, in
                                                  13

   addition to a glycogen synthase kinase 3p inhibitor that acts as a WNT agonist, for example,
   CHIR99021.
            As used herein, the term "glycogen synthase kinase 3p0 inhibitor" or "GSK3p
   inhibitor" refers to a compound that inhibits a glycogen synthase kinase 3P enzyme, for
 5 example, see, Doble, et al., J Cell Sci. 2003; 116:1175-1186, herein incorporated by
   reference. For the purposes of the present inventions, a GSK3p inhibitor is capable of
   activating a WNT signalling pathway, see, for example, Cadigan, et al., J Cell Sci.
   2006;119:395-402; Kikuchi, et al., Cell Signalling. 2007;19:659-671, herein incorporated by
   reference.
10          As used herein, the term "CHIR99021" or "aminopyrimidine" or "3-[3-(2
   Carboxyethyl)-4-methylpyrrol-2-methylidenyl]-2-indolinone" refers to IUPAC name 6-(2-(4
   (2,4-dichlorophenyl)-5-(4-methyl-1H-imidazol-2-yl)pyrimidin-2
   ylamino)ethylamino)nicotinonitrile, CT99021 is one example of a small-molecule chemical
   inhibitor of glycogen synthase kinase 3 P (GSK3 p)/activating a WNT signalling pathway, and
15 is highly selective, showing nearly thousandfold selectivity against a panel of related and
   unrelated kinases, with an IC5 0 = 6.7 nM against human GSK3$ and nanomolar IC 50 values
   against rodent GSK3 homologs.
             N-         N
         l HNH       CL
              NC
                         N\
                    HN
20
             As used herein, the term "the three inhibitors" or "3i" refers to a combination of three
    small molecules CHIR9902 1, SU5402, and DAPT. In other embodiments, the three
    inhibitors refer to a combination of three compounds (i.e. small molecules) capable of
25  combined inhibition of glycogen synthase kinase 35P (GSK3      p)/activator of WNT   signaling
    (i.e. WNT agonist), a NOTCH signaling inhibitor, i.e. a 7-secretase inhibitor capable of
    lowering NOTCH signaling and fibroblast growth factor receptor (i.e. an indolinone
    derivative is an example of a fibroblast growth factor receptor inhibitor).
                                                    14

                                 OMe
             NN                        OMe
         N       N    'N       NH
         H
                             0   NH
      NEt2
             As used herein, the term "Notch inhibitor" or "Notch signaling inhibitor" refers to any
   compound that has the capability of inhibiting Notch activation, such as DAPT, a 7-secretase
 5 inhibitor (GSI), for example, a tripeptide aldehyde inhibitor, a y-secretase inhibitor XII, and a
   peptidomimetic inhibitor (LY-411,575).
             As used herein, the term "gamma secretase inhibitor" or "GSI" refer to a novel class
   of agents which prevent the generation of the active domain of a Notch molecules resulting in
   suppressing downstream Notch signaling.
10            As used herein, the term "y-secretase inhibitor" refers to a compound that has the
   capability of inhibiting y-secretase, a multi-subunit transmembrane protease. One example of
   a target (i.e. substrate) for a y-secretase, for example, is Notch signaling, other y-secretase
   substrates include low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor-related protein, E-cadherin and
   ErbB-4. A 7-secretase inhibitor, such as DAPT, y-secretase inhibitor XII, will therefore
15 block the proteolysis of such y-secretase substrate(s) including NOTCH.
              As used herein, the term "DAPT" refers to one example of a y- secretase inhibitor that
   inhibits NOTCH which is described as a dipeptidic y- secretase-specific inhibitor otherwise
   known as N-[(3,5-Difluorophenyl)acetyl]-L-alanyl-2-phenyl]glycine-1,1-dimethylethyl           ester;
   LY-374973, N-[N-(3,5-Difluorophenacetyl)-L-alanyl]-S-phenylglycinc t-butyl ester; N-[N
20 (3,5-difluorophenacetyl)-L-alanyl]-S-phenylglycine t-butyl ester; with a chemical formula of
   C 23 H 2 6F 2 N 2 0 4 .
                                     0     Ph
                               H
   F                           N
                                     ~H~
                           0                  0
             F
                                                      15

   One example of a DAPT derivative is DAP-BpB (N-[N-(3,5-difluorophenacetyl)-L-alanyl]
   (S)-phenylglycine-4-(4-(8-biotinamido)octylamino)benzoyl)benzyl)methylamide),          a
   photoactivable DAPT derivative.
           As used herein, the term "fibroblast growth factor receptor inhibitor" or "FGFR
 5 inhibitor" refers to a small molecule such as SU5402, PD 173074, and the like. One example
   of an FGFR inhibitor is the indolinone derivative SU5402, exemplary structure shown below.
        H02C
                     N
                     H
                   0
          SN
             H
           As used herein, the term "SU5402" refers to a small molecule with a chemical
   formula of C 17 H 1 6N 2 0 3 and chemical name: 2-[(1,2-Dihydro-2-oxo-3H-indol-3
10 ylidene)methyl]-4-methyl-1H-pyrrole-3-propanoic acid (Sun et al (1999) Design, synthesis
   and evaluations of substituted 3-[(3- or 4-carboxyethylpyrrol-2-yl)methylidenyl]indolin-2
   ones as inhibitors of VEGF, FGF and PDGF receptor tyrosine kinases. J.Med.Chem. 42 5120;
   Paterson et al (2004) Preclinical studies of fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 as a therapeutic
   target in multiple myeloma. Br.J.Haematol, 124 595; Tanaka et al (2005) FGF-induced
15 vesicular release of sonic hedgehog and retinoic acid in leftward nodal flow is critical for left
   right determination. Nature 435:172, herein incorporated by reference).
            As used herein, the term "derivative" refers to a chemical compound with a similar
   core structure.
            As used herein, the term "WNT" or "wingless" in reference to a ligand refers to a
20 group of secreted proteins (i.e. Intl (integration 1) in humans) capable of interacting with a
   WNT receptor, such as a receptor in the Frizzled and LRPDerailed/RYK receptor family,
            As used herein, the term "WNT" or "wingless" in reference to a signaling pathway
   refers to a signal pathway composed of Wnt family ligands and Wnt family receptors, such as
    Frizzled and LRPDerailed/RYK receptors, mediated with or without       p-catenin.  For the
25  purposes described herein, a preferred WNT signaling pathway includes mediation by p
    catenin, i.e. WNT /p-catenin.
                                                     16

         H020
                  INH
                   0
           ~N
              H
             As used herein, the term "PD 173074" refers to a small molecule with a chemical
   name: N- [2- [ [4-(Diethylamino)butyl] amino] -6-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)pyrido [2,3
   d]pyrimidin-7-yl]-N'-(1,1-dimethylethyl)urea. (Bansal et al (2003) Specific inhibitor of FGF
 5 receptor signaling: FGF-2-mediated effects on proliferation, differentiation, and MAPK
   activation are inhibited by PD 173 074 in oligodendrocyte-lineage cells. J. Neurosci.Res.
   74:486, herein incorporated by reference).
             As used herein, the term "LSB-3i" or "LSB3i" in reference to a composition and a
   method of using this composition refers to the combination of LSB molecules (or
10 equivalents) capable of producing neuronal lineage cells and the 3i molecules (or equivalents)
   capable of directed differentiation of neuronal lineage cells as used in exemplary methods as
   described herein for directed differentiation of neuronal lineage cells resulting in nociceptors.
             As used herein, the term "bone morphogenetic protein" or "BMP" refers to a protein
   and corresponding gene that is a member of a BMP subfamily, which based upon sequence
15 homology includes GDFs (growth/differentiation factors), in a TGF-beta superfamily of
   proteins, (see, for example, Yamashita, et al. (1996) Bone 19:569, herein incorporated by
   reference). Examples of BMPs include, BMP1, BMP2, etc. BMPs/GDFs are grouped into
    subsets based on amino acid sequence homology. The groupings are suggested to be 1) BMP
    2 and BMP-4; 2) BMP-3 and BMP-3b; 3) BMP-5, BMP-6, BMP-7, and BMP-8; 4) BMP-9
20  and BMP-10; 5) BMP-12, BMP-13, and BMP-14; and 6) BMP-1 1 and GDF-8 (see, for
    example, Yamashita, et al. (1996) Bone 19:569, Hogan, (1996) Genes Dev. 10:1580, Mehler,
    et al. (1997) Trends Neurosci. 20:309, Ebendal, et al. (1998) J. Neurosci. Res. 51: 139, all of
    which are herein incorporated by reference). TGF Beta superfamily of ligands includes such
    molecules as Bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs), Growth and differentiation factors
25  (GDFs), Anti-m-llerian hormone (AMH), Activin, Nodal, TGFP, etc. The TGF beta family
    include: TGF31, TGFp2, TGFp3. Like the BMPS, TGF betas are involved in embryogenesis
    and cell differentiation, but they are also involved in apoptosis, as well as other functions.
    They bind to TGF-beta receptor type-2 (TGFBR2).
                                                     17

            As used herein, the term "bone morphogenetic protein receptor" or a "bone
   morphogenetic protein receptor type II" or "BMPR2" refers to a serine/threonine kinase
   receptor that binds to a bone morphogenetic protein.
            As used herein, the term "LSB-Mel" refers to a directed differentiation composition
 5 and method comprising LSB/C treatment of cells followed by contact with BMP4 and
   Endothelin-3 (EDN3) for producing melanocyte progenitor cells (melanocyte progenitors),
   identified and isolated based upon specific markers, i.e. c-kit expression.
            As used herein, the term "mature pigmented melanocyte" refers to a pigment cell
   producing pigmented melanosomes, for example, melanocyte progenitor cells of the present
10 inventions contacted with BMP4 and cAMP.
            As used herein, the term "embryonic stem cell" refers to a primitive (undifferentiated)
   cell that is derived from preimplantation-stage embryo, capable of dividing without
   differentiating for a prolonged period in culture, and are known to develop into cells and
   tissues of the three primary germ layers. A human embryonic stem cell refers to an
15 embryonic stem cell that is human, for example, WA-09.
            As used herein, the term "embryonic stem cell line" refers to a population of
   embryonic stem cells which have been cultured under in vitro conditions that allow
   proliferation without differentiation for up to days, months to years.
            As used herein, the term "stem cell" refers to a cell with the ability to divide for
20 indefinite periods in culture and to give rise to specialized cells. A human stem cell refers to a
   stem cell that is human.
            As used herein, the term "human embryonic stem cell" or "hESC" refers to a type of
   pluripotent stem cells derived from early stage human embryos, up to and including the
   blastocyst stage, that is capable of dividing without differentiating for a prolonged period in
25 culture, and are known to develop into cells and tissues of the three primary germ layers.
            As used herein, the term "totipotent" refers to an ability to give rise to all the cell
   types of the body plus all of the cell types that make up the extraembryonic tissues such as
   the placenta. (See also Pluripotent and Multipotent).
            As used herein, the term "multipotent" refers to an ability to develop into more than
30 one cell type of the body. See also pluripotent and totipotent.
            As used herein, the term "pluripotent" refers to an ability to develop into the three
   developmental germ layers of the organism including endoderm, mesoderm, and ectoderm
                                                    18

           As used herein, the term "somatic (adult) stem cell" refers to a relatively rare
   undifferentiated cell found in many organs and differentiated tissues with a limited capacity
   for both self renewal (in the laboratory) and differentiation. Such cells vary in their
   differentiation capacity, but it is usually limited to cell types in the organ of origin.
 5         As used herein, the term "somatic cell" refers to any cell in the body other than
   gametes (egg or sperm); sometimes referred to as "adult" cells.
           As used herein, the term "neural lineage cell" refers to a cell that contributes to the
   nervous system (both central and peripheral) or neural crest cell fates during development or
   in the adult. The nervous system includes the brain, spinal cord, and peripheral nervous
10 system. Neural crest cell fates include cranial, trunk, vagal, sacral, and cardiac, giving rise to
   mesectoderm, cranial cartilage, cranial bone, thymus, teeth, melanocytes, iris pigment cells,
   cranial ganglia, dorsal root ganglia, sympathetic/parasympathetic ganglia, endocrine cells,
   enteric nervous system, and portions of the heart.
           As used herein, the term "induced pluripotent stem cell" or "iPSC" refers to a type of
15 pluripotent stem cell, similar to an embryonic stem cell, formed by the introduction of certain
   embryonic genes (such as a OCT4, SOX2, and KLF4 transgenes) (see, for example,
   Takahashi and Yamanaka Cell 126, 663-676 (2006), herein incorporated by reference) into a
   somatic cell, for examples, C14, C72, and the like.
           As used herein, the term "specialized cell" refers to a type of cell that performs a
20 specific function in multicellular organisms. For example, groups of specialized cells, such as
   neurons, work together to form a system, such as a nervous system.
            As used herein, the term "nociceptor "in reference to a cell of the present invention
   refers to a neuron capable of an action potential and sensing noxious stimulus involved in the
   perception of pain. Stimuli include, but are not limited to, thermal (heat and cold),
25 mechanical, chemical, and inflammation. Nociceptors are cells expressing specific genes and
   proteins, such as BRN3A, ISLl, TACl, VGLUT2, SLC15A3, and comprising a morphology
   described as two distinct processes with a cell body along an axon-like structure. A
    "functional nociceptor" in reference to a cell of the present invention refers to a cell resulting
    from directed differentiation characterized by expression of genes and proteins as described
30 herein, morphology as described herein and capable of producing an action potential such as
    described herein.
            As used herein, the term "peptidergic neuron" in general refers to a neuron identified
    by expression of a distinct class of ion channels and identified by expression of small
                                                     19

   peptides such as tachykinins. For instance a peptidergic nociceptor expresses NTRK1 and
   the tachykinin substance P.
            In contrast to a "nonpeptidergic" neuron refers to a neuron that does not express
   NTRK1 or substance P.
 5          As used herein, the term "neuroectoderm" refers to a cell or cell fate found early in
   development or during pluripotent stem cell differentiation that can give rise to cells of the
   neural lineage.
            As used herein, the term "markers of cell proliferation" refers to the expression of
   molecules associated with rapidly cycling cells which are typically not present in mature
10 slowly cycling or noncycling cells, i.e. actively dividing vs. cells with extended cycling times
   or noncycling cells. Examples of such markers include a Ki67 marker of cell proliferation
   (Gerdes, et al., Int J Cancer 31:13-20 (1983), herein incorporated by reference) and phospho
   histone H3 markers of G2/M-phases of mitosis (Hendzel, et al., Chromosoma 106:348-360
   (1997), herein incorporated by reference).
15          As used herein, the term "proliferation" refers to an increase in cell number.
            As used herein, the term "differentiation" refers to a process whereby an unspecialized
   embryonic cell acquires the features of a specialized cell such as a heart, liver, or muscle cell.
   Differentiation is controlled by the interaction of a cell's genes with the physical and chemical
   conditions outside the cell, usually through signaling pathways involving proteins embedded
20 in the cell surface.
            As used herein, the term "directed differentiation" refers to a manipulation of stem
   cell culture conditions to induce differentiation into a particular (for example, desired) cell
   type, such as nociceptor cells of the present inventions.
            As used herein, the term "directed differentiation" in reference to a stem cell refers to
25 the use of small molecules, growth factor proteins, and other growth conditions to promote
   the transition of a stem cell from the pluripotent state into a more mature or specialized cell
   fate (e.g. central nervous system cell, neural cell, nociceptor, etc.).
            As used herein, the term "inducing differentiation" in reference to a cell refers to
   changing the default cell type (genotype and/or phenotype) to a non-default cell type
30 (genotype and/or phenotype). Thus "inducing differentiation in a stem cell" refers to inducing
   the cell to divide into progeny cells with characteristics that are different from the stem cell,
   such as genotype (i.e. change in gene expression as determined by genetic analysis such as a
                                                    20

   microarray) and/or phenotype (i.e. change in expression of a protein, such as PAX6 or a set
   of proteins, such as HMB45 positive (+) while negative (-) for SOX10.
            As used herein, the term "transdifferentiation" refers to a process by which stem or
   mature cells from one tissue differentiate into cells of another tissue.
 5          As used herein, the term "undifferentiated" refers to a cell that has not yet developed
   into a specialized cell type.
            As used herein, the term "cell differentiation" refers to a pathway by which a less
   specialized cell (i.e. stem cell) develops or matures to possess a more distinct form and
   function (for example, an iPSC progressing into a neural crest progenitor to a cell of neuronal
10 lineage to a neural crest cell, to a neuron, to a nociceptor cell to a peptidergic nociceptor or
   into neuroectoderm to a cell of the central nervous system).
            As used herein, the term "differentiation" as used with respect to cells in a
   differentiating cell system refers to the process by which cells differentiate from one cell type
   (e.g., a multipotent, totipotent or pluripotent differentiable cell) to another cell type such as a
15 target-differentiated cell.
            As used herein, the term "default" or "passive" in reference to a cell differentiation
   pathway refers to a pathway where a less specialized cell becomes a certain differentiated cell
   type in culture, when not treating with certain compounds i.e. normal cell cultures conditions.
   In other words, a default cell results when a cell is not contacted by a molecule capable of
20 changing the differentiated cell type (i.e. a morphogen), for example a Nestin+ TUJ1- cell of
   the present inventions. In contrast, "non-default" in reference to a cell refers to a
   differentiated cell type that results in a cell type that is different from a default cell, i.e. a non
   default cell is a differentiated cell type resulting from a non-default conditions, such as cell of
   the present inventions, including a TUJ 1+Nestin- neuronal cell, a sensory neuronal cell, a
25 peptidergic nociceptor, a melanocyte, etc. A default cell may also be a default cell after a cell
   has contact with a morphogen to become a non-default cell without a subsequent
   morphogenic compound, such as a non-default TUJ 1+ Nestin- cell that subsequently becomes
   a default nonpeptidergic nociceptor.
            As used herein, the term "fate" in reference to a cell, such as "cell fate determination"
30 in general refers to a cell with a genetically determined lineage whose progeny cells are
   capable of becoming a variety of cell types or a few specific cell types depending upon in
   vivo or in vitro culture conditions. In other words, a cell's predetermined fate is determined
   by its environment to be destined for a particular differentiation pathway such that a cell
                                                      21

   becomes one cell type instead of another cell type, for example, a stem cell's progeny cells
   whose "neural fate" is to become a nerve cell instead of a muscle cell or a skin cell.
   Typically, a cell's "fate" is irreversible except under highly specific conditions. In another
   example, a "CNS fate" refers to a cell capable of becoming a cell associated with the central
 5 nervous system. Conversely, a cell fated to become a neural cell can be called a "neural
   progenitor cell."
            As used herein, the term "neurite outgrowth" refers to observation of elongated,
   membrane-enclosed protrusions of cytoplasm from cells.
            As used herein, the term "dopamine neuron" or "dopaminergic neuron" in general
10 refers to a cell capable of expressing dopamine. "Midbrain dopamine neurons" or "mDA"
   refer to presumptive dopamine expressing cells in forebrain structures and dopamine
   expressing cells in forebrain structures.
            As used herein, the term "neural stem cell" refers to a stem cell found in adult neural
   tissue that can give rise to neurons and glial (supporting) cells. Examples of glial cells include
15 astrocytes and oligodendrocytes.
            As used herein, the term "neuron" refers to a nerve cell, the principal functional units
   of the nervous system. A neuron consists of a cell body and its processes-an axon and one
   or more dendrites. Neurons transmit information to other neurons or cells by releasing
   neurotransmitters at synapses.
20          As used herein, the term "cell culture" refers to a growth of cells in vitro in an
   artificial medium for research or medical treatment.
            As used herein, the term "culture medium" refers to a liquid that covers cells in a
   culture vessel, such as a Petri plate, a multiwell plate, and the like, and contains nutrients to
   nourish and support the cells. Culture medium may also include growth factors added to
25 produce desired changes in the cells.
            As used herein, the term "feeder layer" refers to a cell used in co-culture to maintain
   pluripotent stem cells. For human embryonic stem cell culture, typical feeder layers include
   mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) or human embryonic fibroblasts that have been treated
   to prevent them from dividing in culture.
30          As used herein, the term "passage" in reference to a cell culture, refers to the process
    in which cells are disassociated, washed, and seeded into new culture vessels after a round of
    cell growth and proliferation. The number of passages a line of cultured cells has gone
    through is an indication of its age and expected stability.
                                                     22

            As used herein, the term "expressing" in relation to a gene or protein refers to making
   an mRNA or protein which can be observed using assays such as microarray assays, antibody
   staining assays, and the like.
            As used herein, the term "paired box gene 6" or "PAX6" refers to a marker of a
 5 nondefault neuroprogenitor cell.
            As used herein, the term "TUJI 1" or "neuron-specific class III beta-tubulin" in
   reference to a differentiating cell of the present inventions refers to a marker of early neural
   human cell differentiation, such as neural progenitor cells, and is found expressed in neurons
   of the PNS and CNS.
10          As used herein, the term "nestin" in reference to a differentiating cell of the present
   inventions refers to an intermediate filament-associated protein that is a marker of neural
   crest stem cells and CNS neural stem cells.
            As used herein, the term "homodimer" in reference to a SMAD molecule refers to at
   least two molecules of SMAD linked together, such as by disulfide linkages.
15          As used herein, the tern "EDN3" refers to a secreted peptide from the endothelin
   family of endothelium-derived proteins which binds the cell surface receptor EDNRB
   commonly found on neural crest derived cell lineages such as the bipotent glial-melanocyte
   stem cell. One example of a EDN3 amino acid sequence is: endothelin 3 at
   Accession # NP_000105; Accession PI14138 (EDN3_HUMAN) (SEQ ID NO:1):
20 MEPGLWLLFGLTVTSAAGFVPCSQSGDAGRRGVSQAPTAARSEGDCEETVAGPGEE
   TVAGPGEGTVAPTALQGPSPGSPGQEQAAEGAPEHHRSRRCTCFTYKDKECVYYCH
   LDIIWINTPEQTVPYGLSNYRGSFRGKRSAGPLPGNLQLSHRPHLRCACVGRYDKAC
   LHFCTQTLDVSSNSRTAEKTDKEEEGKVEVKDQQSKQALDLHHPKLMPGSGLALAP
    STCPRCLFQEGAP.
25          As used herein, the tern "Noggin" refers a secreted homodimeric glycoprotein that
   binds to and inactivates members of the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-)
    superfamily of signaling proteins, such as bone morphogenetic protein-4 (BMP4).
            Noggin is typically a 65 kDa protein expressed in human cells as a glycosylated,
    disulfide-linked dimer. (Groppe, et al., (2002). Nature 420, 636-642; Xu, et al., (2005) Nat
30  Methods 2, 185-190; Wang, et al., (2005) Biochem Biophys Res Commun 330:934-942).
    One example of a Noggin amino acid sequence is: Accession # U79163 single amino acid
    mouse Noggin (SEQ ID NO:2):
    MERCPSLGVTLYALVVVLGLRAAPAGGQHYLHIRPAPSDNLPLVDFTLIEHPDPIFDP
                                                    23

   KEKDLNETLLRSLLGGHYDPGFMATSPPEDRPGGGGGPAGGAEDLAELFTDQLLRQ
   RPSGAMPSEIKGLEFSEGLAQGKKQRLSKKLRRKLQMWLWSQTFCPVLYAWNDFTL
   GSRFWPRYVKVGSCFSKRSCSVPEGMVCKPSKSVHLTVLRWRCQRRGGQRCGWIPI
   QYFTPIISECKCSC.
 5         As used herein, the term "lefty" refers to a novel member of the transforming growth
   factor beta superfamily that inhibits TGF-beta, including but not limited to LEFTY1,
   LEFTY2, LEFTYA, etc., also known as "EBAF" or "endometrial bleeding associated factor"
   or "left-right determination, factor A". A Lefty protein is required for left-right asymmetry
   determination of organ systems in mammals.
10         As used herein, the term "activin" refers to a member of the transforming growth
   factor-beta (TGF-3) superfamily, such as Activin A, Activin B, etc.
           As used herein, the term "transforming growth factor beta" or "TGF-" refers to a
   cytokine that regulates growth and differentiation of diverse types of cells.
           As used herein, the term "nodal" refers to a member of the TGF-p family of signaling
15 molecules. Nodal signaling inhibits differentiation of human embryonic stem cells along the
   neuroectodermal default pathway (Vallier, et al., Dev. Biol. 275, 403-421.
            As used herein, the term "ALK" or "anaplastic lymphoma kinase" or "anaplastic
   lymphoma receptor tyrosine kinase" or "Ki- 1" refers to a membrane associated tyrosine
   kinase receptor.
20          As used herein, the term "ALK5" in reference to a type I serine/threonine kinase
   receptor refers to an anaplastic lymphoma receptor tyrosine kinase 5 receptor that binds to
   TGF-p1 to function as a TGF-plI receptor.
            As used herein, the term "ALK7" in reference to a type I serine/threonine kinase
   receptor refers to an anaplastic lymphoma receptor tyrosine kinase 7 receptor that binds to
25 Nodal and Nodal-related proteins to function as a Nodal and Nodal-related protein receptor.
            As used herein, the term "contacting" cells with a compound of the present inventions
   refers to placing the compound in a location that will allow it to touch the cell in order to
   produce "contacted" cells. The contacting may be accomplished using any suitable method.
   For example, in one embodiment, contacting is by adding the compound to a tube of cells.
30 Contacting may also be accomplished by adding the compound to a culture of the cells.
            As used herein, the term "attached cell" refers to a cell growing in vitro wherein the
   cell adheres to the bottom or side of the culture vessel, an attached cell may contact the vessel
   via extracellular matrix molecules and the like and requires the use of an enzyme for
                                                   24

   detaching this cell from the culture dish/container, i.e. trypsin, dispase, etc.. As opposed to a
   cell in a suspension culture that is not attached and does not require the use of an enzyme for
   removing cells from the culture vessel.
             As used herein, the term "marker" or "cell marker" refers to gene or protein that
 5 identifies a particular cell or cell type. A marker for a cell may not be limited to one marker,
   markers may refer to a "pattern" of markers such that a designated group of markers may
   identity a cell or cell type from another cell or cell type. For example, nociceptor cells of the
   present inventions express one or more markers that distinguish a nociceptor cell from a
   precursor less differentiated cell, i.e. TUJ1 positive and Nestin negative nociceptor, from a
10 nomociceptor cell or precursor cell, i.e. TUJ1 negative and Nestin positive cell.
             As used herein, the term "positive cell" in relation to a stain refers to a cell that
   expresses a marker and thus "stains" for that marker in a detectable quantitative and/or
   qualitative amount above a control or comparative cell. A positive cell may also refer to a
    cell that stains for a molecule such as Nestin, et cetera.
15           As used herein, the term "negative cell," refers to a cell absent detectable signal for a
   marker, such as a cell failing to stain following contacting with a Nestin antibody detection
   method, et cetera.
             As used herein, the term "DAPI" refers to a 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole.2 HCl
    fluorescent stain. DAPI fluorescence staining methods are well known, as one of numerous
20  examples, see, DAPI Nucleic Acid Stain, 2006, Molecular Probes, Inc., Eugene, Oregon,
    97402, USA.
             As used herein, the terms "reporter gene" or "reporter construct" refer to genetic
    constructs comprising a nucleic acid encoding a protein that is easily detectable or easily
    assayable, such as a colored protein, fluorescent protein such as GFP or an enzyme such as
25  beta-galactosidase (lacZ gene).
             As used herein, the term "GFP" refers to any green fluorescent protein DNA sequence
     capable of producing a fluorescent protein upon expression in a cell typically use as an
     indication marker for expression of a target gene. Examples of GFP include GFP sequences
     isolated from coelenterates, such as the Pacific jellyfish, Aequoria Victoria, and synthetic
30   sequence derivatives thereof, such as "eGFP".
              The term "sample" is used in its broadest sense. In one sense it can refer to a cell or
     tissue. In another sense, it is meant to include a specimen or culture obtained from any source
     and encompass fluids, solids and tissues. Environmental samples include environmental
                                                      25

   material such as surface matter, soil, water, and industrial samples. These examples are not to
   be construed as limiting the sample types applicable to the present invention.
             The terms "purified," "to purify," "purification," "isolated," "to isolate," "isolation,"
   and grammatical equivalents thereof as used herein, refer to the reduction in the amount of at
 5 least one contaminant from a sample. For example, a desired cell type is purified by at least a
   10%, preferably by at least 30%, more preferably by at least 50%, yet more preferably by at
   least 75%, and most preferably by at least 90%, with a corresponding reduction in the amount
   of undesirable cell types, such as isolated differentiated neuronal cells from nonneuronal
   cells. In other words "purify" and its equivalents, refers to the removal of certain cells (e.g.,
10 undesirable cells) from a sample. For example, for providing a purified population of TUJI+
   neuronal cells of the present inventions, TUJ 1+Nestin- neuronal cells are purified by removal
   of contaminating Nestin+ TUJ1 - neuronal cells by sorting a mixed cell population into
   NTRK1 + and NTRK1 - cells by flow cytometry, as described herein; neuronal nociceptor
   cells are also purified or "selected" from non-nociceptor cells (default cells) by using a
15 specified method of cell culture comprising compositions and methods of the present
   inventions. The removal or selection of non-nociceptor cells results in an increase in the
   percent of desired nociceptor cells in the sample.
            Thus purification of a cell type results in an "enrichment," i.e., an increase in the
   amount, of the desired cell, i.e. nociceptors in the sample.
20          The term "naturally occurring" as used herein when applied to an object (such as cell,
   tissue, etc.) and/or chemical (such as a protein, amino acid sequence, nucleic acid sequence,
   codon, etc.) means that the object and/or compound are/were found in nature. For example, a
   naturally occurring cell refers to a cell that is present in an organism that can be isolated from
   a source in nature, such as an embryonic cell, wherein the cell has not been intentionally
25 modified by man in the laboratory.
            As used herein the term, "in vitro" refers to an artificial environment and to processes
   or reactions that occur within an artificial environment. In vitro environments exemplified,
   but are not limited to, test tubes and cell cultures.
            As used herein the term, "in vivo" refers to the natural environment (e.g., an animal or
30  a cell) and to processes or reactions that occur within a natural environment, such as
    embryonic development, cell differentiation, neural tube formation, etc.
             The term "derived from" or "established from" or "differentiated from" when made in
   reference to any cell disclosed herein refers to a cell that was obtained from (e.g., isolated,
                                                      26

   purified, etc.) a parent cell in a cell line, tissue (such as a dissociated embryo, or fluids using
   any manipulation, such as, without limitation, single cell isolation, cultured in vivo, treatment
   and/or mutagenesis using for example proteins, chemicals, radiation, infection with virus,
   transfection with DNA sequences, such as with a morphogen, etc., selection (such as by serial
 5 culture) of any cell that is contained in cultured parent cells. A derived cell can be selected
   from a mixed population by virtue of response to a growth factor, cytokine, selected
   progression of cytokine treatments, adhesiveness, lack of adhesiveness, sorting procedure,
   and the like.
            As used herein, the term "cell" refers to a single cell as well as to a population of (i.e.,
10 more than one) cells. The population may be a pure population comprising one cell type, such
   as a population of neuronal cells or a population of undifferentiated embryonic cells.
   Alternatively, the population may comprise more than one cell type, for example a mixed cell
   population. It is not meant to limit the number of cells in a population, for example, a mixed
   population of cells may comprise at least one differentiated cell. In one embodiment a mixed
15 population may comprise at least one differentiated. In the present inventions, there is no
   limit on the number of cell types that a cell population may comprise.
            As used herein, the term "highly enriched population" refers to a population of cells,
   such as a population of cells in a culture dish, expressing a marker at a higher percentage or
   amount than a comparison population, for example, treating a LSB contacted cell culture on
20 day 2 with CHIR/SU or CHIR/DAPT results in a highly enriched population compare to
   treatment with SU/DAPT.
            The term, "cell biology" or "cellular biology" refers to the study of a live cell, such as
   anatomy and function of a cell, for example, a cell's physiological properties, structure,
   organelles, and interactions with their environment, their life cycle, division and death.
25          The term "nucleotide sequence of interest" refers to any nucleotide sequence (e.g.,
   RNA or DNA), the manipulation of which may be deemed desirable for any reason (e.g.,
   treat disease, confer improved qualities, expression of a protein of interest in a host cell,
   expression of a ribozyme, etc.), by one of ordinary skill in the art. Such nucleotide sequences
   include, but are not limited to, coding sequences of structural genes (e.g., reporter genes,
30  selection marker genes, oncogenes, drug resistance genes, growth factors, etc.), and non
    coding regulatory sequences which do not encode an mRNA or protein product (e.g.,
   promoter sequence, polyadenylation sequence, termination sequence, enhancer sequence,
    etc.).
                                                       27

            As used herein, the term "protein of interest" refers to a protein encoded by a nucleic
   acid of interest.
             The term "gene" refers to a nucleic acid (e.g., DNA or RNA) sequence that comprises
   coding sequences necessary for the production of a polypeptide or precursor (e.g.,
 5 proinsulin). The polypeptide can be encoded by a full length coding sequence or by any
   portion of the coding sequence so long as the desired activity or functional properties (e.g.,
   enzymatic activity, ligand binding, signal transduction, etc.) of the full-length or fragment are
   retained. The term also encompasses the coding region of a structural gene and includes
   sequences located adjacent to the coding region on both the 5' and 3' ends for a distance of
10 about 1 kb or more on either end such that the gene corresponds to the length of the full
   length mRNA. The sequences that are located 5' of the coding region and which are present
   on the mRNA are referred to as 5' untranslated sequences. The sequences that are located 3'
   or downstream of the coding region and which are present on the mRNA are referred to as 3'
   untranslated sequences. The term "gene" encompasses both cDNA and genomic forns of a
15 gene. A genomic form or clone of a gene contains the coding region interrupted with non
   coding sequences termed "introns" or "intervening regions" or "intervening sequences."
   Introns are segments of a gene that are transcribed into nuclear RNA (hnRNA); introns may
   contain regulatory elements such as enhancers. Introns are removed or "spliced out" from the
   nuclear or primary transcript; introns therefore are absent in the messenger RNA (mRNA)
20 transcript. The mRNA functions during translation to specify the sequence or order of amino
    acids in a nascent polypeptide.
             As used herein, the term "gene expression" refers to the process of converting genetic
    information encoded in a gene into RNA (e.g., mRNA, rRNA, tRNA, or snRNA) through
    "transcription" of the gene (i.e., via the enzymatic action of an RNA polymerase), and for
25  protein encoding genes, into protein through "translation" of mRNA. Gene expression can be
    regulated at many stages in the process. "Up-regulation" or "activation" refers to regulation
    that increases the production of gene expression products (i.e., RNA or protein), while
    "down-regulation" or "repression" refers to regulation that decrease production. Molecules
    (e.g., transcription factors) that are involved in up-regulation or down-regulation are often
30  called "activators" and "repressors," respectively.
             As used herein, the terms "nucleic acid molecule encoding," "DNA sequence
     encoding," "DNA encoding," "RNA sequence encoding," and "RNA encoding" refer to the
     order or sequence of deoxyribonucleotides or ribonucleotides along a strand of
                                                     28

    deoxyribonucleic acid or ribonucleic acid. The order of these deoxyribonucleotides or
    ribonucleotides determines the order of amino acids along the polypeptide (protein) chain.
    The DNA or RNA sequence thus codes for the amino acid sequence.
             The term "isolated" when used in relation to a nucleic acid, as in "an isolated
 5  oligonucleotide" or "isolated polynucleotide" refers to a nucleic acid sequence that is
    identified and separated from at least one component or contaminant with which it is
    ordinarily associated in its natural source. Isolated nucleic acid is such present in a form or
     setting that is different from that in which it is found in nature. In contrast, non-isolated
    nucleic acids as nucleic acids such as DNA and RNA found in the state they exist in nature.
10  For example, a given DNA sequence (e.g., a gene) is found on the host cell chromosome in
    proximity to neighboring genes; RNA sequences, such as a specific mRNA sequence
     encoding a specific protein, are found in the cell as a mixture with numerous other mRNAs
     that encode a multitude of proteins. However, isolated nucleic acid encoding a given protein
     includes, by way of example, such nucleic acid in cells ordinarily expressing the given
15   protein where the nucleic acid is in a chromosomal location different from that of natural
     cells, or is otherwise flanked by a different nucleic acid sequence than that found in nature.
     The isolated nucleic acid, oligonucleotide, or polynucleotide may be present in single
     stranded or double-stranded form. When an isolated nucleic acid, oligonucleotide or
     polynucleotide is to be utilized to express a protein, the oligonucleotide or polynucleotide
20   will contain at a minimum the sense or coding strand (i.e., the oligonucleotide or
     polynucleotide may be single-stranded), but may contain both the sense and anti-sense
      strands (i.e., the oligonucleotide or polynucleotide may be double-stranded).
              As used herein, the term "melanocyte" in reference to a cell of the present inventions
      in general refers to a cell derived from PSC, including an early melanocyte, expressing a
25    group of markers including Sox10, HMB45, c-kit, essential melanocyte transcription factor
      MITF-M or MITFM, an isoform of microphthalmia-associated transcription factor (MITF) a
      member of the basic helix-loop-helix leucine zipper transcription factor family expressed in
      melanocytes), tyrosinase (TYR), tyrosinase-related protein 1 (TYR-1),TYR-related protein
      2/dopachrome-tautomerase (DCT), etc., containing premelosomes and/or melanosomes, with
 30   or without obvious pigment (as observed by eye or by microscopy). Mature melanocytes
      typically contain pigmented melanosomes, are tyrosinase positive, and express melanocytes
      proteins such as tyrosinase related protein 1 (TRP 1), etc.
                                                        29

           As used herein, the term "early melanocyte" or "melanoblast" or "melanocyte
   precursor" or "melanocyte progenitor" in reference to a cell of the present inventions refers to
   a cell co-expressing Sox1 0..: GFP and MITF , and c-kit, that is capable of further
   differentiation into a mature melanocyte. In one embodiment, Sox1 0:: GFP is a marker for
 5 presumptive melanocyte precursors. In another embodiment, c-kit is a marker for
   presumptive melanocyte precursors. In a further embodiment, Soxi 0::GFP/c-kit double
   positive cells are presumptive melanocyte precursor cells.
            As used herein, the term "HMB45+" in reference to a cell of the present inventions
   refers to a cell expressing a premelanosomal glycoprotein, i.e. human Pmel17, Theos, et al.,
10 Pigment Cell Res. 2005. 18(5):322-36, herein incorporated by reference), such as early
   (phase) melanocyte (i.e. an immature melanocyte), a cell capable of differentiating into a
   pigmented cell of the retinal pigment epithelium, mature melanocytes containing immature
   melanosomes, and the like.
            As used herein, the term 'disease modeling' refers to the process of using an
15 experimental organism or in vitro cell cultures to mimic specific signs or symptoms observed
   in humans as a result of a disorder. In one embodiment, human pluripotent stem cells derived
   from a person with a genetic mutation resulting in a neurological disorder can be grown and
   differentiated into neural cells harboring a similar defect observed within the person.
20
                                                   30

   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   Figure 1- Exemplary LSB3i Differentiation scheme - A preferred embodiment of the method
   of the present invention. When dual SMAD inhibition was induced using LDN- 193189 and
 5 SB431542 (LSB), optimal neuronal differentiation was observed when CHIR99021, SU5402
   and DAPT (3i) were added at day two of differentiation. Starting on day 4, N2 media was
   added in increasing 25% increments on subsequent days replacing KSR. hESC are plated as a
   single cell monolayer without the use of a stromal feeder layer. For the first five days,
   combined BMP (exemplified by LDN193189) and TGF/Nodal/Activin (exemplified by
10 SB431542) inhibition (LSB) is used to restrict and promote neural differentiation. Three
   additional inhibitors (exemplified by CHIR99021, DAPT, SU5402; collectively called 3i) are
   applied 48 hours after the initial induction. Inclusion or exclusion of LDN193189 from days
   5 to 10 does not make a difference in the differentiation. In summary, cells are fed daily, and
   media is transitioned from KSR to N2 to support the emerging neural cell population. - - - +L
15 - - - represents duplicate cultures wherein LDN was added from days 5 to 10.
   Figure 2 - Exemplary Efficiency of LSB3i - Demonstrates that a preferred embodiment of the
   present invention of combined use of LSB and 3i treatment efficiently promotes the
   generation of a neuronal like cell population compared to LSB treatment alone (A,B) Upon
20 staining for TUJI, a marker of neurons, far greater numbers of positive cells are observed
   when 3i is added (CHIR99021, DAPT, SU5402) 48 hours after treatment of hPSCs compared
   to LSB alone, which showed a large number of PAX6 green/dark cells with a few TUJ1+
   (red/light) cells. (C,D) Cells were re-spotted and Ki67 expression (pink/light cells) was used
   to quantify the number of cells in cell cycle. Indicative of post-mitotic neurons, almost 3 fold
25 less Ki67 (+) cells are observed when 3i is added compared to LSB alone. Comparing
   expression of Ki67 (pink/light cells) and (E,F) phospho-histone H3 (PPH3) (red/light cells) in
   LSB (E) and LSB3i (F) treated hPSCs indicated a stark decline in proliferation by day 12. (G)
   Intracellular FACS was used to measure the number of progenitors (Nestin positive cells;
   grey bar) versus neurons (TUJ1 positive cells; white bar). In contrast to LSB treatment alone
30 where approximately 5% of cells are TUJ1 positive, greater than 75% of cells are TUJ1
   positive when 3i is added. When-enly one or two of the three inhibitors were added
   compared to a preferred embodiment of the 3i composition, the same level of TUJ1 cells is
   not achieved. However treatment of LSB cells with CHIR (C) in addition to either SU5402 or
                                                   31

   DAPT will achieve greater than 53% neurons, indicating a requirement for CHIR, a glycogen
   synthase kinase 36P (GSK3 P) inhibitor/activator of WNT signaling (i.e. WNT agonist) in
   combination with at least one inhibitor selected from a y-secretase inhibitor and a fibroblast
   growth factor receptor inhibitor, in the formation of TUJ1+ neurons. Scale bar for (A,B)
 5 represents 200 tm and (C,D) represents 100 tm.
   Figure 3- Exemplary LSB3i neurons were nociceptors - Demonstrates that a preferred
   embodiment of the present invention of combined use of LSB and 3i treatment efficiently
   promotes the generation of nociceptors compared to LSB treatment alone. TUJ1 positive
10 neurons from the combined use of LSB and 3i treatment express (A) ISL1, (B) BRN3A, (C)
   RET, and (D) RUNX1 measured by immunofluorescence on Day 12. (E) Greater than 61%
   of-cells express NTRK1 on Day 10 while LSB3i treated hiPSCs form neurons at a moderate
   efficiency as measured by FACS. These results taken together indicate the vast majority of
   neurons generated using the combined use of LSB and 3i treatment are nociceptors. Scale bar
15 represents 100 pm.
   Figure 4 - Exemplary iPS cells were induced to nociceptors using LSB3i - Neurons similar
   to those shown in Figure 3 are observed when hiPSC lines (for example, C14) are treated
   with LSB3i. Demonstrates that a preferred embodiment of the present invention of combined
20 use of LSB and 3i treatment efficiently promotes the generation of a nociceptor compared to
   LSB treatment alone from hiPSC populations. TUJI positive neurons from a preferred
    embodiment of combined use of LSB and 3i treatment of a hiPSC line (C14) express (A)
   ISLI, (B) BRN3A, (C) RET, and (D) RUNX1 measured by immunofluorescence on Day 12.
   Two different hiPSC lines (C14 and C72) are also able to generate nociceptors. (E)
25  Intracellular FACS was used to measure the number of progenitors (Nestin positive cells;
    grey bar) versus neurons (TUJI positive cells; white bar) for the treatments shown. Scale bar
    represents 100 tm.
    Figure 5- Exemplary SOX10 expression - Demonstrates that a preferred embodiment of the
30  present invention of combined use of LSB and 3i treatment drives nociceptor differentiation
    through a pathway involving a neural crest stem cell-like state. To monitor the emergence of
    neural crest stem cells, a transgenic SOX1O::GFP BAC hESC cell line was treated with A)
    LSB, B) LSB and CHIR99021 (LSB/C), and C) LSB3i which showed numerous green
                                                   32

   (bright GFP+ cells in B) and C) by fluorescence microscopy. D) and E) show quantitative
   expression of GFP in treated cell populations after flow cytometry analysis Using a
   transgenic SOX10::GFP BAC hESC line, expression of SOX1O, a marker of neural crest
   stem cells, can be detected in greater than 64% of cells by day 8. SOX10::GFP+ expression
 5 was accelerated and maximal expression (80% GFP+ by day 12) where larger GFP+
   populations occurred earlier compared to LSB and CHIR99021 (LSB/C) or LSB treatment
   alone as shown in D) and E) LSB values are just above baseline, LSB/C points are black lines
   (in between LSB and LSB3i) and LSB3i values are connected by a red (light) line. Scale bars
   =50 pm.
10
   Figure 6 - Exemplary demonstration of 3i added when the cells still retain OCT4 expression
   - Demonstrates that a preferred embodiment of the present invention of combined use of LSB
    and 3i treatment drives nociceptor differentiation beginning very early in the differentiation
   pathway when the hESC population still retain pluripotent characteristics (A) When
15  CHIR9902 1, DAPT, SU5402 are added to 7 duplicate cultures on various days (i.e. one
    culture on each of day 1- day 7) after LSB induction and the cells are fixed on day 11, the
    greatest cell survival and most homogeneous TUJI expression is observed for day 2. Thus
    the optimum day 2 time for 3i addition was discovered. (B) This corresponds to a time when
    the cells cultured in Noggin and SB431542 (NSB) continue to express OCT4, a marker for
20  pluripotency, and do not yet express PAX6, a marker of neural cell fate (see lack of staining
    marked by an asterisk). Profound cell death is observed when 3i is added on days 5-7 at a
    time when the cells have committed the neural lineage, marked by PAX6 expression, see,
    DAPI staining in A) 3i added on days 5, 6 and 7 and B) day 6 of culture.
    Cells were stained for identifying antibodies that bound to OCT4 (red/dark) and PAX6
25  (green/light) in addition to a nuclear 4'-6-Diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) stain (bright
    blue).
    Figure 7 - Exemplary LSB3i treated artificial hPSCs (SOX1O::GFP cells) demonstrated
    development of a neural crest intermediate cell with accelerated maturation into bipolar
30  nociceptors capable of producing an action potential. Flow Cytometry was used to sort
     SOX1O::GFP+ cells from SOXlO::GFP negative cells. When SOX1O::GFP+ were treated
    with LSB3i they gave rise to (produced) (A) ISLI and (B) BRN3A positive neurons. LSB3i
     neurons stained for (C) glutamate and (D) TRPV1. (E) Each TUJI positive neuron exhibited
                                                    33

   a bipolar morphology with two distinct growth cones and (F) expressed polarized MAP2.
   After 1 month, (G) neuron cell bodies cluster to form ganglia positive for (H) Substance P
   and (I) CGRP. (J) 95 pA (red trace) is sufficient to elicit a mature single action potential from
   LSB3i nociceptors. Scale bar represents 100 pm (A-D and F-I) and 50 ptm (E).
 5
   Figure 8 - Exemplary LSB3i treated iPSC clone C72 rapidly acquired a nociceptor
   phenotype. TUJ1 positive neurons (green/light axonal stain) from LSB3i treated iPSC clone
   C72 cells expressed A) ISL1, B) BRN3A, C) RET, and D) RUNX1 (red/pink stain of cell
   bodies).
10
   Figure 9 - Exemplary NTRK1 FACS sorting enriched hiPSC-derived LSB3i neurons.
   NTRK1 FACS sorting on day 10 of differentiation increased TUJ1 positive (green/light
   axonal stain) neurons in NTRK1+ cells and removed nestin (red) positive progenitor
   (NTRKI-) cell populations from both C14 and C72 cell lines. Cells were immunostained
15 with TUJI and Nestin in addition to DAPI 24 hours after plating onto a matrigel coated
   culture vessel.
   Figure 10 - Exemplary Gene expression of LSB3i nociceptors - Gene expression analysis
   was performed on days 2, 3, 5, 7, 9, and 15 for both LSB and LSB3i treated cells. (a) Distinct
20 phases of differentiation are observed when examining markers for neuroectoderm, neural
   crest, neurons, and nociceptors (N.E., N.C., Nn., and Noci., respectively). (b) Top twenty
   significant up- (red) and downregulated (blue) genes by fold change at day 15 for LSB3i
   were compared to LSB treated cells. (c) Expression of OCT4, DLK1, PAX6, SOX10,
   POU4F1 (BRN3A), ISLI, NEUROG2, NEUROGI, NTRK1, VGLUT2, TACI, and TRPV1
25 are consistent with emergence of a peptidergic nociceptor.
   Figure 11  - Exemplary qRT-PCR validation of genes induced in a SOX10::GFP BAC cell
   line. Compared to hPSCs sorted for SSEA-4 and a previous method to enrich for neural crest
   stem cells by sorting for HNK1+ cells from neural cultures (Lee, et al., Nat Biotechnol 25,
30  1468-1475, herein incorporated by reference), GFP+ cells sorted using the SOX1O::GFP
   BAC greatly enricheed for cells expressing neural crest genes SOX10, p75, and AP2B as
   measured by qRT-PCR.
                                                  34

   Figure 12 - Exemplary LSB3i nocicepors have two distinct growth cones. When passaged at
   day 12following initial contact with LSB, LSB3i nociceptors were fixed and stained with
   TUJI antibodies (green; light areas) and DAPI (blue/dark nuclei) two distinct growth cones
   can be observed in these representative cells with a cell body marked by DAPI (blue; darker
 5 oval areas) nuclear area in between with a variety of axon-like shapes and sizes. One end
   exhibited an elaborate arborization (top) similar to dendrites and the other a bulbar shape
   (bottom) similar to synaptic ends. In general, the morphology of peptidergic nociceptors of
   the present inventions matched morphology of sensory neurons.
10 Figure 13 - Exemplary Specification and isolation of melanocyte progenitors/melanoblasts
   The 11-day LSB-C protocol supported the derivation of Sox]O::GFP,MITF co-expressing
   melanocyte progenitors (A, right panel). MITF single positive populations were also
   observed (A, left panel). c-Kit was identified as a potential marker of melanocyte progenitors.
   A low percentage of Sox10::GFP, c-kit co-expressing cells were observed after LSB-C
15 differentiation (B, orange population). qRT-PCR analysis confirmed the enrichment of
   melanocyte markers MITFM and Det in the double positive population (C). Treatment with
   BMP4 and EDN3 ("LSB-Mel") enhanced induction of the Sox10::GFP,c-kit double positive
   putative melanocyte progenitor population (D). Sox10:: GFP, c-kit double positive cells
   isolated following LSB-Mel treatment exhibited significantly higher levels of melanocyte
20 markers MITFM and Det (E). All error bars represent s.e.m. * p<0.05.
   Figure 14 - Exemplary Expansion and Maturation of Melanocyte Precursors - Summary of
   differentiation conditions (A). Following specification in LSB-C conditions with BMP4 and
   EDN3 (LSB-Mel) cells were sorted at day 11 and replated. Post-sort (PS) cells were
25 maintained in maturation media containing c-kit ligand (SCF), endothelin 3 (EDN3),
   fibroblast growth factor (FGF), and CHIR. Pigmented cells observed by brightfield
   microscopy at day 6 PS were positive for the melanocyte marker MITF but appeared to have
   downregulated the Sox1 0:: GFP reporter (B). All populations except the Sox] 0:: GFP, e-kit
    double negative eventually gave rise to MITF expressing cells and macroscopic pigmented
30  clusters, but at differing rates (C). Treatment with BMP4 and cAMP enhanced the
    differentiation into pigmented cells exhibiting a spindle-like morphology typical of
   melanocytes (D).
                                                    35

   Figure 15 - Exemplary Characterization of Mature Melanocytes - Pure populations of mature
   melanocytes derived with the LSB-Mel protocol maintain the expression of common
   melanocyte markers including MITF, Soxl0, Tyrp1, and HMB45 after greater than 8 weeks
   in culture (A). Melanocytes retain their darkly pigmented phenotype over several weeks in
 5 passage (B). 1x10 6 cells were pelleted and photographed to assess pigmentation levels.
   Electron microscopic ultrastructural characterization of mature melanocytes (C, D). The
   presence of numerous darkly pigmented melanosomes in the cytoplasm of LSB-Mel derived
   melanocytes can be observed by TEM (C). Note the presence and progressive deposition of
   melanin pigment with the maturation of melanosome vesicles from stages I through IV (D).
10
   Figure 16 - Shows an exemplary LSB-MEL medium formulation required Linoleic Acid for
   growth of melanocytes and schematic of a melanocyte lineage. Medium component shown
   above microscopic views represent the medium component left out of the formulation; Ph=
   phase contrast; BF=bright filed. An exemplary schematic shows melanocyte progenitor
15 markers used for identifying cells of a melanocyte lineage developed during the present
   inventions.
   Figure 17 - Exemplary Differentiation model - Early LSB treatment of pluripotent
   embryonic human stem cells inhibited trophectoderm, mesendoderm, and non-neural
20 ectoderm cell fates yielding cells with a neuroectoderm fate. The addition of CHIR99021,
   SU5402 and DAPT (3i) on day 2 after the initial LSB treatment induced and accelerated
   (over LSB-C and LSB treatment) neural crest stem cell identity markers by day 8 and
   promoted rapid differentiation of the neural crest stem cells into peptidergic nociceptors by
   day 10.
25
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
                   The present invention relates to the field of stem cell biology, in particular the
   linage specific differentiation of pluripotent or multipotent stem cells, which can include, but
   is not limited to, human embryonic stem cells (hESC), human induced pluripotent stem cells
30 (hiPSC), somatic stem cells, cancer stem cells, or any other cell capable of lineage specific
   differentiation. Specifically described are methods to direct the lineage specific
   differentiation of hESC and/or hiPSC to nociceptors (i.e. nociceptor cells) using novel culture
   conditions. The nociceptors made using the methods of the present invention are further
                                                   36

   contemplated for various uses including, but limited to, use in in vitro drug discovery assays,
   pain research, and as a therapeutic to reverse disease of, or damage to, the peripheral nervous
   system (PNS). Further, compositions and methods are provided for producing melanocytes
   from human pluripotent stem cells for use in disease modeling.
 5         From the description contained herein, one skilled in the art can easily ascertain the
   essential characteristics of this invention, and without departing from the spirit and scope
   thereof, can make changes and modifications to the present invention to adapt it to various
   usages and conditions and to utilize the present invention to its fullest extent. The
   embodiments and examples described below are to be construed as merely illustrative, and
10 not limiting of the scope of the invention in anyway.
           The inventors have previously disclosed the use of dual SMAD inhibition to direct
   differentiation of stem cells toward neural cell populations with the ratio of CNS and neural
   crest progeny being dependent on cell confluency at time of treatment initiation; high plating
   density, i.e. high confluency, yields CNS progeny whereas low plating density, i.e. low
15 confluency, yields neural crest progeny. They further disclosed that patterning of
   differentiated CNS neuronal progeny to functional dopaminergic neurons could be achieved.
           The present invention described herein discloses the unexpected and novel finding
   that functional nociceptors, a neural crest derived cell lineage, can be directly differentiated
   from high density plated embryonic or somatic stem cells in about 10 days by sequential
20 inhibition of SMAD signaling followed by inhibition of FGF and Notch signaling and
   activation of Wnt signaling and such functional nociceptors can be maintained in vitro for 7
   days or longer.
           In particular, a combinatorial small molecule screen was done in order to discover
   compounds for use in directed differentiation of human pluripotent stem cells. During this
25 screen small molecules were discovered that converted PSCs into postmitotic neurons.
   Specifically, a combination of five small molecules that were pathway inhibitors, i.e.
   SB431542, LDN-193189, CHIR99021, SU5402, and DAPT, was discovered that was
   sufficient under certain test conditions described herein to yield neurons at >75% efficiency
   from hPSCs within 10 days of differentiation in the absence of any recombinant growth
30 factors. Accordingly, the use of compositions (including kits) and methods of the present
   inventions, results in at least a 50% yield of peptidergic nociceptors, or at least 60%, or at
   least 70%, or at least 75% efficiency from hPSCs. These resulting human neurons expressed
   canonical markers of nociceptive sensory fate including NTRK1, BRN3A, ISL1, NEUROG1,
                                                    37

   Substance P, and CGRP. This small molecule based acceleration of neuronal fate acquisition
   occurred in a time frame three to five fold faster compared to normal in vivo development
   (Bystron, et al., Nat Neurosci 9:880-886, (2006), herein incorporated by reference) indicating
   that inhibition of certain signaling pathways was sufficient to accelerate timing of human
 5 neuronal cell development. This rapid, potentially scalable (i.e. batch processing for
   producing large numbers of mature sensory peptidergic nociceptor neurons) and high
   efficiency derivation of peptidergic nociceptors allowed unprecedented access to this novel
   method for producing a medically relevant cell type for use in studies of human pain
   perception. Combinatorial small molecules screens represent a powerful method tool for a
10 new generation of directed differentiation strategies in hPSC biology.
             This discovery of compositions and methods for in vitro production of mature sensory
   peptidergic nociceptor neurons within 10 days represents significantly less time for producing
   mature sensory neurons than current methods. Prior to this discovery, in vitro derivation of
   postmitotic neurons from hPSCs required extended culture periods typically lasting 30 days
15  or more (Zhang, et al., Methods Mol Biol 584:355-366 (2010); Elkabetz, et al., Genes Dev
    22:152-165 (2008), herein incorporated by reference). This protracted in vitro differentiation
    of hPSCs was thought to reflect the chronology of human development in vivo (Perrier, Proc
    Natl Acad Sci U S A 101:12543-12548 (2004). Thus, in one embodiment, compositions and
    methods for producing mature peptidergic nociceptor neurons includes less than 30 days of
20  culture after initial contact with at least one of the five compounds, i.e. SB431542, LDN
    19318, or equivalents. Accordingly, peptidergic nociceptors may be obtained in less than 29,
    less than 25, less than 20, less than 15, less than 12, and less than 10 days after initial contact
    with at least one of the five compounds.
              Identifying in vitro strategies to overcome the slow human developmental pace is a
25  major challenge for realizing the full potential of hPSCs in basic biology and human disease
    modeling (Saha, Cell Stem Cell 5, 584-595 (2009), herein incorporated by reference). The
    inventors describe herein the discovery of a novel small molecule based method to turn
    pluripotent cells into mature neurons. Thus in one embodiment, a pluripotent cell is directed
     to differentiation into a mature nociceptor cell. Further, the inventors describe materials and
30  methods to produce mature neurons, i.e. nociceptor cells, in a variety of forms and in high
     numbers.
                                                      38

    .      Cell Culturing Methods for Inducing Neuronal Precursor (Lineage) Cells:
   Contacting Human Pluripotent Stem Cells With SB431542 and LDN-193189
   Produced Neural Lineage Cells.
           The following example describes exemplary methods for providing cells of a neural
 5 lineage for use during development of the present inventions.
           Dual SMAD inhibition was previously used as a rapid and highly effective method for
   inducing one type of neural lineage cells from hPSCs (Chambers, et al., Nat Biotechnol 27,
   (2009), herein incorporated by reference). These neural lineage cells induced by molecules
   including Noggin, had a default pathway that allowed development into central nervous
10 system cells, i.e. neural cell fate. Follow up studies reported the use of a small molecule
   dorsomorphin (DM) instead of Noggin, that at least in part produced similar cells with
   differences in consistency of cultures (Kim, et al., Robust enhancement of neural
   differentiation from human ES and iPS cells regardless of their innate difference in
   differentiation propensity. Stem Cell Rev 6, 270-281, (2010); Zhou, et al., High-Efficiency
15 Induction of Neural Conversion in hESCs and hiPSCs with a Single Chemical Inhibitor of
   TGF-beta Superfamily Receptors. Stem Cells, 504, (2010), herein incorporated by reference).
           The inventors observed that cells generated using Noggin despite showing the same
   developmental stage as LDN treated cells, expression of the vast majority of the same
   markers, and capable of a similar developmental potential to make various neural lineages,
20 also showed differences, such as being more anterior on an anterior-posterior axis (i.e. more
   forebrain, more cells express FOXG1, and the like) compared to neural cells induced using
   LDN. Thus although LDN was used in place of Noggin to inhibit BMP among other
   signaling pathways, Noggin and LDN may have other types of activities which are different,
   besides inhibiting BMP.
25         In part due to the high expense of using Noggin, the inventors contemplated that the
   use of a BMP inhibitor might be able to substitute for Noggin in producing cells of neural cell
   fate. Therefore, a small molecule BMP inhibitor, LDN- 193189, (Yu, et al., Nat Med 14,
    1363-1369, (2008), herein incorporated by reference) was used and found during the
   development of the present inventions to replace Noggin, in combination with SB431542, for
30 generating primitive neuroectoderm from hPSCs, cells that have neural cell fate, i.e. CNS
   cells (Fig. 2A). This combination treatment was termed LSB for the combination of these
   two inhibitors LDN-193189 and SB431542.
                                                    39

            In general, cell differentiation was initiated by treatment of high confluency
   monolayer hES or hiPS with dual inhibition of SMAD signaling. A preferred embodiment
   utilizes a percentage confluency of 50%-100%, with a most preferred embodiment of 70%
   80% confluency. It will be obvious to one skilled in the art that the initial plating density
 5 required to achieve a preferred confluency of the present invention will be dependent on cell
   type, size, plating efficiency, survival, adhesion and other parameters which can be
   determined empirically without undue experimentation on the part of the skilled artisan.
   Dual inhibition of SMAD can be achieved with a variety of compounds including Noggin,
   SB431542, LDN193189, Dorsomorphin, or other molecules which block TGF3, BMP, and
10 Activin/Nodal signaling. A preferred embodiment utilizes the composition comprising
   SB431542 and LDN1 93189 (collectively, LSB) at a concentration of 0.1 tM-250pIM, or more
   preferable 1-25 piM, or most preferable 10gM of SB431542 and 10-5000nM, or most
   preferably 100-500nM of LDN193189.
15     I.      Compounds For Use In Directed Differentiation: Screening Small Molecules
     Using Neuronal Lineage Cells of The Present Inventions Resulted in Compounds That
   Produced PAX6 low and TUJ1 high Neuronal Cells For Use In Directed Differentiation.
            The following example describes using exemplary cells of a neural lineage from
   Example II for screening small molecule candidate compounds for use in directed
20 differentiation.
             Specifically, in the context of dual SMAD inhibition (LSB), i.e. human ES cells were
   first treated with LSB (LDN-193189 and SB431542) for screening candidate compounds (i.e.
   small molecules) under approximately 400 conditions in order to find combinations of small
   molecules that might accelerate the acquisition of postmitotic neuron markers starting from
25 human ES cells. Candidate compounds were chosen from molecules that targeted (altered)
    cell signaling pathways known to be important and frequently used in developmental studies
   in order to determine cell fates (for example, signaling pathways such as FGF, Notch, WNT,
    SHH (Sonic Hedgehog), etc.) for determining cells capable of CNS development. As one
    example, 4 types of inhibitors (i.e. SU/DAPT/CHIR/Cyclopamine) were tested in different
30  combinations (as fed to cells in cell medium) on different days of LSB treatment. Each
    treatment was then screened on Day 10 for TUJ1/PAX6 expression. As one example of a
    treatment condition: LSB was fed daily, CHIR and SU were added to the medium to feed
    cells daily on days 4-10.
                                                      40

            In general, results of screening treatments resulted in large numbers of cultures
   containing dead cells. In other words, viable culture conditions during this screen were found
   much less frequently than unviable conditions (i.e. cell death), for example, when SU/DAPT
   was added to early cultures, i.e. prior to day 2. The inventors contemplated that CNS stem
 5 cells depend on FGF signaling and gamma-secretase activity/Notch signaling for survival,
   therefore when CHIR was absent when SU/DAPT induced cells to switch from CNS to
   neural crest, instead of switching, the cells died.
            On day 10 after addition of LSB, cells that survived during the screen were monitored
   for the loss of the human neuroectoderm marker PAX6 (Zhang, et al., Cell Stem Cell 7, 90
10  100, (2010), herein incorporated by reference) and initiation of neuronal differentiation by
   TUJI expression (Lee, et al., Cell Motil Cytoskeleton 17, 118-132, (1990), herein
   incorporated by reference). The cells were stained for neurons (TUJl+) and a loss of
   neuroectoderm (observation of fewer PAX6+ cells) using an antibody that binds the C
   terminus of PX6), by immunofluorescence (inmunoF). This screening was done on the
15  numerous combinations of inhibitors (for example, SU, SU/DAPT, SU/DAPT/CHIR,
    DAPT/CHIR, SU/CHIR, SU/Cyclopamine, etc.) were added in variations of daily feedings
    on combinations of days, (for example, days 0-10, 1-10, 2-10, 3-10, etc.). In general, results
    were determined by observing comparative amounts of TUJ1+/PAX6- staining of cells
    generated by each treatment such that the conditions and compounds showing the highest
20  amounts of TUJ1+/PAX6- staining were chosen as successful for providing cells for further
    analysis. One example of a small molecule that was considered a failure during the screening
    test for producing cells that were TUJ 1+/PAX6- by immunostaining of cells was
    Cyclopamine. Cyclopamine appeared to have no effect on cells for producing TUJ1/PAX6
    staining no matter when it was added. In other words, the cell morphology remained similar
25  to those cells with LSB treatment alone (i.e. > 90% PAX6+ and < 10% TUJ1+) on day 10 by
    immunofluorescence.
             However, during the screen the inventors discovered that a specific combination of
    three small molecules (SU5402, CHIR99021, and DAPT; termed 3i for three inhibitors),
     added on day 2 of LSB treatment (Fig. 6A and B), abolished PAX6 expression and induced
30   TUJi in hPSCs at day 10 of differentiation (Fig. 2A and B). This was a surprising discovery
     because at day 2 of LSB treatment the treated cells were not yet known to have a neural cell
     fate or for having the capability to develop into a neural cell fate. Instead, 3i treatment
                                                     41

   directed cells away from a neural cell fate into neural crest cells which were further
   differentiated into the nociceptor cells of the present inventions.
            The functions for each of these small molecules was then researched in order to
   discover which signaling pathways were contemplated to be involved in converting a
 5 PAX6+TUJ1- human ES cell population into a PAX6-TUJ1+ population. First, SU5402 was
   reported as a potent inhibitor of VEGF, FGF, and PDGF tyrosine kinase signaling (Sun, et al.,
   J Med Chem 42, 5120-5130, (1999), herein incorporated by reference). Thus in general it was
   contemplated that at least one of the small molecules was involved with inhibiting FGFR
   signally pathways. Secondly, CHIR99021 was reported as a WNT agonist by selectively
10 inhibition of GSK-3p which stabilized        p-catenin (Bennett, et al., JBiol Chem 277, 30998
   31004, (2002), herein incorporated by reference). Thus in general it was contemplated that at
   least one of the small molecules was involved with inhibiting glycogen synthase kinase 3P
    (GSK3p). In one embodiment, this small molecule alternatively is capable of activating at
   least one of the WNT signalling pathways, such as through glycogen synthase kinase 3P
15  (GSK3p) inhibition. And thirdly, DAPT was reported as a y-secretase inhibitor capable of
   blocking Notch signaling (Dovey, et al., JNeurochem 76, 173-181 (2001), herein
    incorporated by reference). Thus in general it was contemplated that at least one of the small
   molecules was involved with inhibiting at least one Notch signaling pathway. Thus in one
    embodiment, one of the small molecules was contemplated as a nonselective or pan-Notch
20  inhibitor. In another embodiment, one of the inhibitors is an inhibitor of y-secretase
    molecules, capable of blocking at least one Notch signaling pathway. Therefore, in one
    exemplary embodiment, a combination of inhibitors would include at least one small
    molecule involved with inhibiting FGFR signalling pathways, at least one small molecule
    involved with inhibiting at least one Notch signaling pathway, and at least one small
25  molecule involved with inibiting GSK-3p while activating at least one of the WNT signalling
    pathways for producing PAX6-TUJJ1+ human neuronal cells of the present inventions. In
    further embodiments one of the inhibitors was capable of blocking at least one y-secretase
    molecule in the Notch signaling pathway.
            A.       LSB-3i: A Combination Of Two Inhibitors Of FGF and Notch Signaling
30  With An Activator Of Wnt Signaling Produced TUJ1+ Neuronal Cells.
            Inhibitors to FGF and Notch signaling and activators of Wnt signaling were added
     about 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or 7 days after initiation of LSB treatment. Inhibition of FGF signaling
                                                       42

   can be achieved with a variety of compounds including SU5402, PD-161570, PD-173074,
   Suramin, or other molecules which block FGF signaling pathways. Inhibition of Notch
   signaling can be achieved with a variety of compounds including DAPT, L-685,458,
   Compound E, MK0752, or other molecules which block Notch signaling pathways.
 5         Activation of Wnt signaling can be achieved with a variety of compounds including
   CHIR99021, LiCl, TDZD-8, recombinant Wnt or other molecules which activate Wnt
   signaling pathways. A preferred embodiment utilizes the composition comprising
   CHIR99021, DAPT, and SU5402 (collectively, 3i) at a concentration of 0.3-100lM, or more
   preferable 3-10pM, or most preferable 3pM of CHIR99021; 1-100pM, or most preferable
10 10piM of DAPT; and 0.5-200pM, or more preferable 5-20pM, or most preferable 10pM
   SU5402.
           The stem cells treated with the combination of LSB and 3i were fixed on day 11 and
   examined for survival and expression of the neuronal marker TUJ1. The population that had
   been treated with 3i on day 2 of LSB treatment yielded the highest survival rate as well as
15 high expression of the neuronal marker TUJ1 whereas the population that had been treated
   with 3i after day 5 of LSB treatment displayed cytotoxicity and cell death (Fig. 6A).
   Surprisingly, on day 2 following LSB treatment the cell population is still progenitor-like as
   expression of Oct4 is high (Fig. 6B). It is not until day 6 following LSB treatment that the
   neural commitment marker Pax6 is expressed; however treatment on day 6 with 3i results in
20 cytotoxicity thereby indicating that the neuronal populations derived by combined LSB and
   3i treatment are directly differentiating from the pluripotent stem cell and not from a neuronal
   intermediate. Therefore, a preferred embodiment of treatment with 3i is between 1 and 4
   days following LSB treatment, with the most preferred embodiment of treatment with 3i 2
   days following LSB treatment.           Additionally, all 3 components of the 3i composition
25 are required for the maximum yield of differentiated neurons (Fig. 2E).
          TUJ1+ neuronal cells show a loss of expression of cell proliferation markers.
            The following example describes an exemplary method for determining the
   maturational (cell cycle) stage of TUJ1+ neuronal cells.
            Upon maturation, neurons produced in culture ceased to undergo mitosis while
30  loosing Ki67 and phospho-histone H3 (PHH3), markers of cell proliferation (Gerdes, et al.,
   Int J Cancer 31, 13-20 (1983), herein incorporated by reference) and G2/M-phases of mitosis
    (Hendzel, et al., Chromosoma 106, 348-360 (1997), herein incorporated by reference),
    respectively. Therefore, cells produced using LSB in combination with 3i (i.e. LSB3i) were
                                                   43

   passaged to a lower density, approximately 10-100,000 cells /cm 2 and tested for cell
   proliferation markers, Ki67 and phospho-histone H3 (PHH3), after fixation to better assess
   expression, in individual cells. In particular, expression of Ki67 was known to be a better
   predictor of proliferation. Thus, compared to cells cultured in LSB without 3i compounds,
 5 after 12 days fewer cells, 50% and 16%, cultured in the presence of 3i showed a loss of
   Ki67+ and pHH3+ cells, respectively (Fig. 2 C-F).
            Intercellular FACS staining for Nestin, a marker of neural progenitors, and P3-tubulin
   (TUJ1) a marker of neuronal differentiation, was performed to quantify the efficiency
   (percentage) of neuronal differentiation using LSB3i compared to LSB alone as a control in
10 addition to LSB/CHIR (CHIR99021;C), SU/DAPT (SU5402/DAPT), SU/CHIR (SU5402/
   CHIR99021), DAPT, SU (SU5402), CHIR (Fig. 2G). In the presence of LSB, SU/DAPT,
   DAPT, SU and CHIR, the majority of cells expressed Nestin. In particular, > 95% of the LSB
   cell population were Nestin+. Numerous cells showed Nestin staining after dual SMAD
   inhibition but were not quantitated while longer term cultured cells, i.e. 19 days, showed
15 TUJI+ neurons where the majority of these cells co-expressed tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)
   identifying potential dopaminergic neurons (Chambers, et al., Nat Biotechnol 27, (2009),
   herein incorporated by reference). Conversely, when LSB contacted cells were contacted 2
   days later with the 3i compounds, after 10 days approximately 25% of cells expressed Nestin
   while approximately 75% of cells expressed TUJI, demonstrating efficient conversion to a
20  neuronal cell fate after short-term cell culture, i.e. less than 19 days.
             Surprisingly, LSB treatment followed 2 days later by contacting cells with
    CHIR99021 and either one of DAPT or SU resulted in 50% of the cell population
    differentiating into TUJ 1+ cells. When each of the three inhibitors was used alone after LSB
    treatment, 20% or fewer cells were TUJ1+. Therefore CHIR99021 was discovered as the key
25  contributor to directed differentiation of this cell population into TUJ1+ neuronal cells. The
    inventors contemplated directed differentiation of nestin+ TUJ 1- cells into nestin-TUJ 1+
    neuronal cells was dependent on inibition of GSK-3 P while activating at least one of the
    WNT signalling pathways in addition to inhibiting either FGF receptor pathways or a gamma
     secrease within a Notch signalling pathway. Further, the addition of the 3i compounds
30  resulted in a conversion of an additional 25% nestin-TUJ1+ neuronal cells, see, Fig 2G.
             In summary, the neuronal population derived from a preferred embodiment of 3i
     treatment 2 days after LSB treatment was further examined. This population showed high
     expression of the neuronal marker TUJI compared to cells treated with LSB alone (Fig.
                                                      44

   2A,B) as well as loss of Ki67 (Fig. 2C,D). Loss of Ki67 indicates reduction in cell cycle
   which is characteristic of post-mitotic differentiated neurons. Additionally, FACS analysis
   revealed that over 75% of the cell population treated with a preferred composition consisting
   of LSB and 3i expressed TUJ1 compared to 99% of the population treated with LSB alone
 5 which expressed Nestin, a progenitor marker (Fig. 2G).
            The neuronal population derived from a preferred embodiment of 3i treatment 2 days
   after LSB treatment was further examined. This population showed high expression of the
   neuronal marker TUJ1 compared to cells treated with LSB alone (Fig. 2A,B) as well as loss
   of Ki67 (Fig. 2C,D). Loss of Ki67 indicates reduction in cell cycle which is characteristic of
10 post-mitotic differentiated neurons. Additionally, FACS analysis revealed that over 75% of
   the cell population treated with a preferred composition consisting of LSB and 3i expressed
   TUJI compared to 99% of the population treated with LSB alone which expressed Nestin, a
   progenitor marker (Fig. 2E).
            B.      TUJ1+ Neuronal Cells Expressed PNS rather than CNS Cell Markers.
15          The following example describes an exemplary method for identifying the type of
   TUJ 1 positive neuron produced during the development of the present inventions.
            To further characterize the subtype of neurons obtained from a preferred embodiment
   of 3i treatment 2 days after LSB treatment, the TUJI positive population was stained for
   markers of various neuronal subtypes. Specifically, the dual-SMAD-inhibition protocol was
20 known to generate PAX6+ neuroepithelial cells biased towards anterior forebrain identity
   expressing FOXG1 (Forkhead box protein G1) (Chambers, et al., Nat Biotechnol 27, (2009),
   herein incorporated by reference). Therefore, in order to determine the neuronal subtype
   identity following LSB3i treatment, cells were passaged to a lower density, approximately
    10-100,000 cells/cm 2 at day 10 and assessed for a range of marker expression at day 12
25          Since the expected neuronal type was a CNS fate, the majority of initial markers
   tested were for identification of CNS type cells. In fact, a CNS forebrain neuron was
    expected since LSB cells default to this subtype (PAX6, FOXG1 positive). Surprisingly, at
   least 12 negative results (an exemplary 10 are shown below) for CNS markers were obtained
   before staining for ISL1, a marker for PNS cells, was discovered. ISLI is expressed by
30 motoneurons and peripheral sensory neurons. BRN3A expression was tested and found to be
    expressed by LSB/3i cells. Therefore, the inventors discovered BRN3A+/ISLl+ neurons
    which indicated development of peripheral sensory neurons, see Table A, below.
                                                   45

   Table A: The following list of genes/proteins that represent numerous CNS fate molecules
   that were expected to be positive (expressed) on cells using the LDN/3i induced
   differentiation as described herein. However, these results showed an exemplary lack of
   CNS markers, results which were supported by the subsequent finding of potential markers
 5 for PNS lineage, i.e. ISL1 and BRN3A.
   Gene/Protein      Marks (neuron type)          Result (IF or FACS)
   FOXG1             Forebrain                    Negative
   FOXA2             Midbrain                     Negative
   TBR1              Cortical                     Negative
   PAX6              Forebrain                    Negative
   AADC              Dopamine                     Negative
   TH                Dopamine                     Negative
   DCX               Pan-neuronal                 > 75%, costained with TUJ1
   Nestin            Progenitors                  < 25%, counterstained with TUJ1
   ChAT              Cholinergic                  Negative
   GAD65             GABA                         Negative
   Reelin            Cortical and juvenile        Positive
                     neurons
   GABA              GABA                         Negative
   MASH1             Autonomic                    Negative
   BRN3A             Peripheral sensory           Positive
   ISLI              Motoneurons, Peripheral      Positive
                     sensory
           Surprisingly, homogenous expression of ISLI and BRN3A (red/darker areas within
   cells) (Fig. 3A and B) were observed on TUJ1+ cells (green/lighter cell bodies compared to
10 red staining) of the present inventions. ISL1 and BRN3A are key markers for sensory
   neurons (ISLI: Sun, et al., Nat Neurosci 11, 1283-1293, (2008); BRN3A: Gerrero, et al.,
   ProcNatl Acad Sci U S A 90, 10841-10845 (1993), all of which are herein incorporated by
   reference). This discovery indicated that the neurons that resulted from LSB3i treatment were
   PNS rather than CNS cells. These results were in contrast to LSB cells that default to a CNS
15 forebrain neuron subtype (PAX6+, FOXG1 positive).              This is quite a unexpected finding
   as the high confluency of the stem cells upon initiation of the treatment, as represented by
   plating density, according to the teachings of the prior art, should have resulted in CNS
   derived neuronal populations. However, nociceptors are derived from neural crest cell
   populations which, according to the teachings of the prior art, are derived from low
20  confluency of the stem cells upon initiation of the treatment, as represented by plating
                                                   46

   density. In other words, the expectation was that a high initial plating density> 20,000
   cells/cm 2 of pluripotent stem cells at the time of initiation of LSB treatment would result in a
   committed CNS neuronal population. In contrast, a low initial plating density approximately
   10,000 cells/cm2 was known to be necessary to result in neural crest cells (Chambers et al,
 5 Nature Biotech, 2009 (See lower half of Figure 4), herein incorporated by reference in its
   entirety).
            To further characterize the subtype of neurons obtained from a preferred embodiment
   of 3i treatment 2 days after LSB treatment, the TUJ1 positive population was stained for
   markers of various neuronal subtypes. This population was positive for expression of ISLI,
10 BRN3A, RET, and RUNX1 (Fig. 3 A-D). FACS analysis revealed that greater than 60% of
   these neurons were positive for NTRK1 (Fig. 3E).
            These markers collectively indicate that the neuronal population are peripheral
   sensory neurons, in particular nociceptors. This is quite a unexpected finding as the high
   confluency of the stem cells upon initiation of the treatment, as represented by plating
15 density, according to the teachings of the prior art, should have resulted in CNS derived
   neuronal populations. However, nociceptors are derived from neural crest cell populations
   which, according to the teachings of the prior art, are derived from low confluency of the
   stem cells upon initiation of the treatment, as represented by plating density. Therefore a
   preferred embodiment of the combination of LSB with 3i treatment on day 2 results in
20 unexpected formation of neural crest derived populations, namely nociceptors. To establish
   the generality of the present invention, the inventors repeated a preferred embodiment of the
   present invention combining 3i treatment 2 days after LSB treatment using hiPSC as the
   source of stem cells. The current art describes any number of methods to produce hiPSC and
   will be known to those skilled in the art. hiPSC cells plated at a high confluency treated with
25 LSB followed by 3i on day 2 results in the formation of neuronal cells positive for the
   nociceptor markers ISLI, BRN3A, RET, and RUNX1 (Fig. 4A-D).
            C.      PNS TUJ1+ Neuronal Cells Expressed Nociceptor- Peptidergic Cell
   Markers
   The following example describes using exemplary methods for determining which type(s) of
30 peripheral nervous system (PNS) neurons were produced using methods described herein.
            It was not known what type(s) of PNS neurons were produced by the methods
   described herein as there were several types of candidate neurons, such as sensory neurons
                                                    47

   and motor neurons, and further there were at least three major subsets of known sensory
   neurons in the PNS including proprioceptor cells, mechanoceptor cells, and nociceptor cells.
           During development, early stage nociceptors were both peptidergic and
   nonpeptidergic and uniquely expressed NTRK1, RUNX1, followed by RET expression (for
 5 an example of information on RET, see, Woolf, et al., Neuron 55, 353-364, (2007), herein
   incorporated by reference). Duplicate early stage LSB3i-cultures with TUJ1+ neurons were
   tested for RET expression (Fig. 3C), and discovered to be positive for this marker (red/darker
   areas within cells in the larger box compared to TUJ 1+ staining (green/lighter cell bodies
   compared to RET staining) and lighter stained areas within inserted RET box). (Fig. 3D), and
10 greater than 60% of all cells in culture expressed NTRK1 when measured by FACS at day 10
   (Fig. 3E).
            In summary, this population was positive for expression of ISL1, BRN3A, RET, and
   RUNX1 (Fig. 3A-D) indicating the production of early stage nociceptors (both peptidergic
   and nonpeptidergic). FACS analysis revealed that greater than 60% of these neurons were
15 positive for NTRK1 (Fig. 3E). These markers collectively indicate that the neuronal
   population are peripheral sensory neurons, in particular nociceptors.
            Therefore a preferred embodiment of the combination of LSB with 3i treatment on
   day 2 results in unexpected formation of neural crest derived populations, namely
   nociceptors.
20          Further, the inventors combined information from several tests, including initial
   immunofluorescence results, i.e., BRN3A+, ISL1+, array data, i.e. TACi (Substance P)
   expression, then choosing a NTRK1 marker and finding NTRK1+ cells, in addition to
   observations described herein where cells obtained by LSB/3i treatment transitioned through
   neural crest and transiently expressing Neurogenin1 (NEUROGi) instead of differentiating
25 into a CNS fate. Thus the inventors contemplated that the resulting PNS cell was most likely
    a peptidergic nociceptor.
            D.      LSB-3i Reproducibly Induced PNS TUJ1+ Nociceptor- Peptidergic
   Neuronal Cells.
            The following example describes using exemplary methods of the present inventions
30  for determining reproducibility.
             To establish the generality of the present invention, the inventors repeated a preferred
    embodiment of the present invention combining 3i treatment 2 days after LSB treatment
                                                     48

   using hiPSC as the source of stem cells. Reproducibility of LSB3i treatment was accessed
   across additional hPSC lines including induced pluripotent stem cell (hiPSC) lines. The
   current art describes any number of methods to produce hiPSC and will be known to those
   skilled in the art. In particular, two hiPSC lines (C14 and C72) were used that were
 5 generated by inserting genes such as Oct4 (octamer-binding transcription factor 4), Sox2
   (SRY (sex determining region Y)-box 2), Klf4 (Kruppel-like factor 4), and c-Myc
   (Transcription factor p64) and shown to efficiently neuralize (see, (Papapetrou, et al., Proc
   Natl Acad Sci., USA 106, (2009), herein incorporated by reference)).
           PAX6 expression was then examined by ImmunoF. LSB and LSB3i treatment of C14
10 and C72 cell lines showed similar neuronal staining results when compared to human cell
   lines shown in Fig. 3A-D. Exemplary C14 staining results are shown in Fig. 4A-D while
   exemplary C72 staining results are shown in Fig. 8A-D for ISL1, BRN3A, RET, RUNX1 and
   TUJI, as described above.
           LSB treatment of C14 and C72 cell lines homogeneously gave rise to Nestin positive
15 cells (>95% of the treated cell population) and were capable of forming TUJ+ cells when
   treated with combination of LSB3i as measured by FACS (40% for C14 and 33% for C72;
   Fig. 4E). These results were compared to H9 cell line (i.e. a hESC line) treated with LSB and
   LSB3i shown for LSB and LSB3i results in (Fig. 4E). Even higher neuron yields, from 40%
   and 33% measured by FACS, became > 90% of nuclei staining are neurons when sorted on
20 NTRK1 were obtained in those two hiPSC lines upon passaging of bulk cultures into culture
   vessels coated with Matrigel TM containing N2 media after sorting on NTRK1 (Neurotrophic
   tyrosine kinase receptor type 1) marker expression. Cells were disaggregated with accutase,
   re-suspended in N2, and incubated on ice with APC-conjugated NTRKl antibody (R&D) for
   15 minutes, washed, and re-suspended in N2 for FACS. After sorting the cells were cultured
25 for 24 hours in N2 media, and fixed in place. Cells were collected and stained for BRN3A,
   ISL1, TUJI and DAPI. In particular, numerous Nestin+ cells (red/dark staining) are shown
   for both C14 and C72 NTRKl- cells from LSB3i treated cells compared to few Nestin+ cells
   in the representative NTRK1+ LSB3i treated cell population (Fig. 9). Further, while few C14
   NTRK1- cells expressed TUJ1 cell line C27 showed a higher number of NTRKI1- TUJ1+
30 (green; bright staining). Both cell lines showed high numbers of Nestin-TUJ1+ cells as
   observed compared to cell bodies identified by DAPI (blue; light nuclear) staining.
                                                   49

            In summary, hiPSC cells plated at a high confluency treated with LSB followed by 3i
   on day 2 resulted in the formation of neuronal cells positive for the nociceptor markers ISLI,
   BRN3A, RET, and RUNX1 (Fig. 4A-D, Fig. 8A-D and Fig. 9.
            The speed with which stable, mature neuronal cell fates can differentiate from hPSCs
 5 using this combined small molecule approach (Fig. 4) remains the most surprising finding.
   The time frame of 10-15 days for the generation of a mature neuron phenotype is far
   accelerated as compared with estimates of nociceptor emergence during human development
   (30-50 days) (Kitao, et al., J Comp Neurol 371, 249-257, (1996), herein incorporated by
   reference). Upregulation of ISLI and BRN3A are concomitant with expression of SOX1O,
10 starting between days 5 and 7. The optimal time to add 3i is day 2 of dual SMAD inhibition
   reflecting a previous finding from the inventor's lab that treatment with sonic hedgehog at day
   2 is most effective at promoting FOXA2 expression and human floor plate differentiation
   (Fasano, et al., Cell Stem Cell 6, 336-347, (2010), herein incorporated by reference). This
   suggests that neural patterning can occur prior to the loss of OCT4 protein expression and
15 that the presence of OCT4 protein does not appear to restrict pre-patterning events. The
   potent role of CHIR99021 in the derivation of neural crest derived sensory neurons is likely
   related to activation of canonical WNT signaling, known to be essential during early neural
   crest specification of (Dorsky, et al., Nature 396, 370-373, (1998), herein incorporated by
   reference), and capable of instructing naive neural crest precursors towards sensory neuron
20 lineage (Lee, et al., Science 303, 1020-1023, (2004), herein incorporated by reference).
            Transcription factor-based lineage reprogramming of mouse cells has garnered much
   deserved attention as a means to derive neurons directly from fibroblast (Vierbuchen, et al.,
   Nature 463, 1035-1041, (2010), herein incorporated by reference), and in time this method
   may be used on human cells. The data shown herein demonstrated that LSB3i was capable of
25 rapid derivation of human postmitotic neurons. Some of the key advantages of using methods
   comprising LSB3i were speed and efficiency of production of human postmitotic neurons
   from human precursor cells, i.e. PSCs. Furthermore, the protocol did not require genetic
   manipulation or mechanical intervention, such as passaging, resulting in highly enriched
   populations of neurons within 10 days in a single culture step.
30           LSB3i is also one of the first examples of using combinatorial small molecule screens
   to drive lineage specification in hPSCs. Given the limited number of developmental
   pathways used iteratively at developmental decision points (Brivanlou, et al., Science 295,
    813-818, (2002), herein incorporated by reference) the approach described herein should be
                                                    50

   generally applicable to specify human pluripotent lineages. The majority of the five small
   molecules used in LSB3i were known signaling pathway inhibitors indicating that
   suppression of endogenous signaling pathways is particularly effective at directing hPSC fate.
   Although off-target effects are an important consideration when using small molecules, such
 5 that small molecules often produce unintended or unexpected results, the data obtained
   during the development of the present inventions demonstrated that in this particular
   invention wherein combined small molecule inhibition of endogenous signaling pathways
   provided efficient, non-genetic (no changes in DNA coding sequences), cross-species, cost
   effective, rapid, and reversible means to modulate hPSC cell fates.
10
   II.      LSB-C: CHIR99021 Was Required For The Generation Of LSB3i Nociceptors
   And Discovered To Direct Differentiation Into Neural Crest Stem Cells.
            During the development of the present inventions, the inventors discovered that LSB
   contacted cells were capable of being directed to differentiate a high numbers into
15 nociceptors when contacted, on Day 2 after LSB treatment, with CHR/SU or CHR/DAPT but
   not SU/DAPT. Upon further investigation the inventors were surprised to discover that LSB
   C, LSB treated cells contacted with CHIR resulted in a neural crest stem cell population.
            A.      CHIR99021 (C) Is The Key Factor For Inducing Neuronal Differentiation
                                From LSB Cultured Cells (i.e. LSB-C)
20          The following example describes using exemplary methods for testing the efficacy of
    each compound for inducing directed neuronal differentiation.
            In order to gain mechanistic insights into the sufficiency of each compound found to
    associated with the induction of TUJl+ cells of Example III, specific combinations of 3i
    compounds were tested for inducing cellular expression of Nestin and TUJi as measured
25  using intercellular FACS (shown in Fig. IG). Nestin was used as a marker of the LSB neural
    lineage cells while TUJ1 was used to identify a downstream (i.e. more differentiated)
    neuronal cell.
                Although none of the individual factors yielded high numbers (greater than 60%)
    of TUJ1+ neurons, CHIR99021 in combination with either one of the other two signal
30  inhibition factors was capable of generating moderate numbers of TUJI+ neurons (53% for
    DAPT and 58% for SU5402). These data indicate that under the test conditions used herein,
    CHIR99021 was the key factor for accelerating neuronal differentiation while SU5402 and
    DAPT provided important, yet additive stimuli.
                                                    51

            Additionally, all 3 components of the 3i composition are required for the maximum
   yield of differentiated neurons (Fig. 2G).
            B.      Neural Crest Stem Cells Were Derived From LSB Contacted Cells (DO)
   Further Contacted With CHIR (D2).
 5          The inventors found that BMP signaling and TGF-p signaling was optimized for
   neural crest induction through experiments that used early withdrawal of theses respective
   inhibitors. Wnt signaling was activated in turn along with GSK3p inhibition, a using a small
   molecule GSK3 P inhibitor (CHIR9902 1). Thus the inventors found that a narrow window
   (Day 2) of Wnt signaling governs neural crest induction in the context of the dual SMAD
10 inhibition protocol. A modified dual SMAD inhibition protocol (LSB-C) that combined
   optimized signaling for these three pathways enhanced the induction of Sox10::GFP
   expressing neural crest in up to 65% of the population.
   IV.      LSB-3i and LSB-C Induced Artificial SOX1O+ Cells Are Capable Of Producing
15 Nociceptor Cells.
            The following example describes using exemplary methods of the present inventions
   for directed differentiation of engineered SOX10+ GFP expressing human cells.
            Nociceptor cells are contemplated to arise from two types of cell intermediates during
   human development: specifically SOX10+ chick embryo neural crest cells were found to be
20  capable of generating trunk nociceptor cells flanking the spinal cord (George, et al., Nat
   Neurosci 10:1287-1293, (2007), herein incorporated by reference). Additionally, Xenopus
    laevis head placode tissue contributed to the trigeminal nociceptor cell population in facial
    tissue (Schlosser, et al., J Comp Neurol 418:121-146, (2000); Schlosser, et al., Dev Biol
    294:303-351, (2006), herein incorporated by reference).
25          Thus, in order to determine if a neural crest intermediate cell fate marked by SOX 10
    (Aoki, et al., Dev Biol 259, 19-33, (2003); Lee, et al., Nat Biotechnol 25, 1468-1475, (2007),
    herein incorporated by reference) in human cells would be observed during differentiation
    using a transgenic SOX1O::GFP bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) hPSC line. This
    SOX1O::GFP (BAC) cell line was generated with enriched neural crest gene markers that co
30  expressed with a GFP gene using methods previously reported (Placantonakis, et al., Stem
     Cells 27:521-532, (2009), herein incorporated by reference). The SOX10:GFP cell line was a
    sub-clone of the H9 hESC line. Cells were dissociated and gene delivery was performed
    using reagents (solution V), protocol (B-16), and equipment from Amaxa. The DNA
                                                    52

   nucleofected (transfected into the nucleus) was a bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC)
   containing the SOX10 gene with an inserted GFP, obtained from Gene Expression Nervous
   System Atlas [GENSAT] (accession number: GENSATI -BX1 086). The BAC was then
   modified to include a neomycin resistance gene for selection (see Tomishima, et al. Stem
 5 cells 25(l):39-45. Epub 2006 Sep 21 (2007, herein incorporated by reference) using cre/LoxP
   recombination from a selection cassette excised from the pL452 plasmid into the GENSAT
   BAC. After gene delivery hESCs were seeded as single cells in the presence of G41 8 for
   neomycin resistance selection and clones were manually picked and screened for the presence
   of GFP upon differentiation. GFP cells were sorted to confirm the expression of SOXI0 and
10 other neural crest markers by qRT-PCR.
            GFP expression was measured by FACS identification and sorting of SOX1O::GFP+
   cells at 4, 8, 12, and 16 days after initiating differentiation with LSB when two additional
   duplicate samples were contacted each with one of LSB then CHIR99021 (LSB/C) or LSB
   with 3i.
15          When CHIR99021 was present greater than 70% of these treated cells in culture
   became SOX1O::GFP+ by day 12 of differentiation for the culture conditions (70% for
   LSB/C and 80% for LSB3i; Fig. 5D and E). This result indicated that the majority of cells
   develop a neural crest identity, supporting the inventors' observation that CHIR99021 was
   required for the generation of LSB3i nociceptor cells. Thus combined inhibition by these
20  small molecules which inhibited tyrosine receptor kinase receptors and Notch signaling, in
    addition to contacting SU5402 and DAPT, respectively, accelerated neural crest cell fate,
    since LSB3i treated cells acquired a neural crest fate more rapidly in comparison to LSB/C
    treated hPSCs (Fig. 5D and E). The inventors contemplated that CHIR induced neural crest
    and sensory neurons while SU accelerated neural crest marker expression and neuronal
25  differentiation. Finally, the inventors contemplated that DAPT in combination with CHIR
    and SU accelerated neuronal differentiation. Further, the use of CHIR99021 in combination
    with LSB, i.e. LSB/C resulted in a slower conversion rate of over 60% of Nestin-TUJ1+
    neuronal cells compared to LSB3i between days 12 and 16 when using the engineered
    SOX::GFP cells as a read-out.
30
    V.      NTRK1+ Human Nociceptor Cells Produced By Methods Described Herein
    Showed Electrophysiology Responses Similar To Rat Nociceptor Cells In Situ.
                                                      53

            The following example describes using exemplary methods of the present inventions
   for determining the functional capability of nociceptor cells produced by methods described
   herein.
             LSB3i treated cells were examined for function, maturation stages, and behaviors in
 5 order to confirm that LSB3i derived neurons were bonafide nociceptor neuronal cells. After
   LSB3i treatment of pluripotent stem cells resulted in nociceptor cells were obtained long
   term cultures were established from a plating density of 10-100,000 cells/cm 2 and passaged
   Day 10, 30 days in culture in N2 medium supplemented with human-beta NGF, BDNF, and
   GDNF (see, Example I for additional details). Survival rate of these cells under longer-term
10 culture conditions was found to be NGF dependent compatible with NTRK1+ nociceptor
   status. LSB3i nociceptors expressed high levels of TUJI, ISLI, BRN3A (Fig. 7A-C) as
    shown previously, in addition to glutamate (Fig. 7C). Glutamate production was consistent
   with an excitatory glutamatergic neuron, i.e. a nociceptive afferent fiber that releases
    glutamate, and the capsaicin receptor TRPV1 (Fig. 7D), an important ion channel for noxious
15  stimulus. On day 15 in culture two distinct growth processes could be identified for each
    neuron (Fig. 7E, Fig. 12).
             The dendrite marker MAP2 was expressed primarily in one of the two processes in a
    polarized fashion (Fig. 7F). The bipolar nature of the neurons was in agreement with the role
    of sensory neuron in the peripheral ganglia with the cell body is located in the dorsal root
20  ganglion projecting processes both towards the spinal cord and towards the periphery (Woolf,
    et al., Neuron 55, 353-364, (2007); George, et al., Nat Neurosci 10, 1287-1293, (2007),
    herein incorporated by reference).
             In the presence of nerve growth factor (NGF), neurons were cultured long-term (for
    example, cells passaged day 10 and cultured up to day 30). LSB was withdrawn on day 5, 3i
25  withdrawn from cells on day 10 when NGF/GDNF/BDNF were added into medium. The
    neurons were fed NGF/GDNF/BDNF from day 10 up to day 30. On Day 30, the number of
    days from initial LSB treatment, the neurons was observed to have started to self-organize
    into ganglia-like structures. This type of morphology is common to peripheral sensory
    neurons (Marmigere, et al., Nat Rev Neurosci 8, 114-127, (2007), herein incorporated by
30  reference) (Fig. 7G, H, and I).
              Mature nociceptors are typically either peptidergic or non-peptidergic depending on
     expression of neuropeptides, such as calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP) and Substance P
     (a neuropeptide) expressed by peptidergic sensory neurons, (Woolf, et al., Neuron 55, 353
                                                     54

   364, (2007), herein incorporated by reference). In contrast, non-peptidergic neurons do not
   express CGRP nor Substance P and have other markers such as binding to the lectin IB 4 .
            Therefore, LSB3i induced neurons were sorted for NTRK1 expression (see methods
   described above), using FACs, into NTRK1+ and NTRK1- populations (for example of a
 5 sorted cell, see, Fig. 7G. NTRK1+ cells were positive for both Substance P and CGRP
   indicating primarily a peptidergic nocicieptors phenotype (Fig. 7H and I; day 30 of
   differentiation).
            A primary functional hallmark of sensory neuron identity (i.e. function) is their
   electrophysiological signature (Fang, et al., JPhysiol 565, 927-943, (2005), herein
10 incorporated by reference). NTRK1+ sorted neurons were also tested by standard
   electrophysiology techniques for cultured neurons (Placantonakis, et al. Stem Cells. 2009,
   Figure 5 has an example, herein incorporated in its entirety)
            NTRKI + cells exhibited a characteristic single action potential (AP),
   electrophysiological signature, firing pattern with an average membrane resting potential of
15 67 4 mV by day 21 after initial LSB3i treatment. The resulting AP timing and shape of
    action curve in LSB3i human neurons are shown in Fig. 7J, see thick red line) and Table 1
   below. These results were similar to those described previously in electrophysiological
   reports of primary anaesthetized adult rat nociceptors (Fang, et al., JPhysiol 565, 927-943,
    (2005), herein incorporated by reference).
20
    Table 1: Electrophysiology of human LSB3i Cultured Cells compared to rat nociceptive
    and non-nociceptive dorsal root ganglion neurones in vivo.
       Action Potential          LSB3i Cells         Nociceptor Cells*       Mechanoreceptor
                                                                                   Cells*
       Duration at base               9.5                     6                      2
      (milli-second; ms)
           Rise time                  3.8                     2                     0.8
      (milli-second; ms)
     Fall Time, Tussman               5.8                    3.5                     1
           and Misc.
      (milli-second; ms)
          Overshoot                    29                   22.5                     5
       (milli -volt; mV)
        80% Recovery                  15.1                   21                      5
      (milli-second; ms)
     * Fang, et al., J Physiol 565.3:927-943 (2005).
                                                   55

   VI.      Global gene expression analysis shows an exemplary timing of gene expression.
            The following example describes using exemplary methods for determining global
   gene expression of nociceptor cells and other cells types produced by methods described
   herein.
 5          Global gene expression analysis was performed at fine temporal resolution (days 2, 3,
   5, 7, 9, and 15, NCBI Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) accession number GSE26867; for
   both LSB and LSB3i treated hPSCs to further characterize the timing of events (i.e. marker
   expression) during the induced differentiation process. When select markers for
   neuroectoderm, neural crest, neurons, and nociceptors were analyzed (see Table 2 below),
10 distinct phases of differentiation for each could be observed (Fig. 10).
   Table 2: Gene expression assigned to specific phases of differentiation during directed
   differentiation after contact with LSB-3i. See also, Fig. 10A.
   Phases of          Genes Expressed
   Differentiation
   Neurectoderm       PAX6, OTX2, DLK1, DKK1, CUZD1
   Neural Crest       SOX1O, MSX1, ID2, AP2B, ETS1, FOXD3
   Neuron             NGNl, DCX, TUBB3, SYT4, STMN2, INA, GAP43, ISL1, POU4F1
   Nociceptor         TACl, VGLUT2, SLC15A3
15
            This gene expression analysis (Fig. 1OB,C and Table 2 above) was consistent with the
   majority of immunofluorescence results. For example, gene analysis showed that in maturing
   neurons, ISLI, POU4F1 (BRN3A), SOX1O, TAC1 (pro-peptide to Substance P), NTRKl,
   and the glutamate vesicular transporter VGLUT2 genes were all upregulated (i.e. the number
20 of cells in culture increased the expression of these markers over time). Concurrently while
   these markers were observed to be increased on induced cells, markers for hESC-derived
   primitive neuroectoderm were observed to be downregulated (i.e. expressed on fewer cells in
   culture), in particular DLK1, LHX2, OTX2, LEFTY2, PAX6, and HESS.
            However, expression of somatostatin (SST) and SOXlO was found at day 15 in LSB3i
25 treated cell cultures, which is expected to be expressed in mature nociceptors. However, SST
   was also shown expressed in developing sensory neurons. Therefore, the inventors
   contemplated that this marker was indicating the presence of immature cells at day 15.
    Though somewhat down-regulated, SOX1O expression was also observed at a time when
   most cells appeared to be neurons. This finding was unexpected since SOXI 0 was expected
                                                   56

   to be downregulated as the cells differentiate into neurons. This unexpected discovery of
   SST and SOX1O expression in cells of day 15 cultures was contemplated as not all of the
   become nociceptors cells, approximately 20-30%. This indicated that other mature cell types
   (such as Schwann cells) continue to express SOX10.
 5          hESC-derived primitive neuroectoderm cell cultures produced by dual SMAD
   inhibition in Chambers, et al., Nat Biotechnol 27, (2009); Fasano, et al., Cell Stem Cell 6,
   336-347, (2010), each of which are herein incorporated by reference), demonstrated high
   expression of DLK1, LHX2, OTX2, LEFTY2, PAX6, and HES5 genes. Likewise, similar
   high expression for these genes was observed when hESC-derived primitive neuroectoderm
10 cell cultures were produced by dual SMAD inhibition using LSB (see Fig. 1OB,C and Table 3
   below). These genes were reduced during LSB3i treatment while producing nociceptors
   during the development of the present inventions.
   Table 3: Timing of gene expression during directed differentiation with LSB-3i
15  compared to LSB.
    LSB-3i            Genes upregulated                   Genes downregulated
    Differentiation
    compared to
    LSB control
    Day 7             ISLi, POU4Fl (BRN3A),               DLK1
                      SOX10, NTRK1, and the
                      glutamate vesicular transporter
                      VGLUT2
    Day 9             ISLI, POU4F1 (BRN3A),               DLK1 and PAX6
                      SOXl0, NTRK1, and the
                      glutamate vesicular transporter
                      VGLUT2
    Day 15            ISL1, POU4F1 (BRN3A),               DLK1, LHX2, OTX2, LEFTY2,
                      SOX10, TACI (pro-peptide to         PAX6, and HES5
                      Substance P), and the glutamate
                      vesicular transporter VGLUT2
            In addition, the temporal transcriptome analysis provided further evidence for
    nociceptor intermediate cell fates, distinct from mechanoceptor cells and proprioceptor cells.
20  The neurogenin basic helix-loop-helix proteins mediate two sequential waves of neurogenesis
    in the dorsal root ganglia during mouse development (Marmigere, et al., Nat Rev Neurosci 8,
    114-127, (2007); Ma, et al., Genes Dev 13, 1717-1728 (1999), herein incorporated by
                                                    57

   reference). The first wave, marked by NEUROG2 (Neurogenin-2) gives rise to
   mechanoceptor cells and proprioceptor cells, and the second marked by NEUROGI
   (Neurogenin-1) gives rise to nociceptor cells. When hPSCs are treated with LSB,
   NEUROG2 expression is strongly induced by day 7 (Fig. 1OC and Table 4 below). In
 5 contrast, hPSCs treated with LSB3i show a less pronounced induction of NEUROG2 by day
   7 but selective induction of NEUROG1 by day 9 (Fig. 10C).
   Table 4: Timing of gene expression during directed differentiation with LSB-3i
   compared to LSB.
10
   neurogenin         Day 7                                 Day 9
   basic helix
   loop-helix
   genes
   expressed in
   treated hPSCs
   LSB-3i             No difference in NEUROGI              NEUROGI induction
                      compared to LSB control cells         No change in % of cells
                      No change in % of cells               expressing NEUROG2
                      expressing NEUROG2
   LSB control        No difference in NEUROGI              No difference in NEUROGI
                      NEUROG2 induction                     Downregulation of NEUROG2
   VII.    Contemplated Large Scale Culture Using Compositions and Methods Of The
   Present Inventions For Providing Exemplary Nociceptor Cells.
           The following contemplated description shows exemplary methods and uses for large
15 scale production of nociceptor cells produced by methods described herein.
           The scalable generation (i.e. methods contemplated to be successful for generating
   nociceptor cells from both cultures containing a relatively small number of cells, for example,
    1.5 x 104 cells/well of 48 well plates such as described in Examples, supra), and contemplated
   5x10 3 cells/well in 96 well plate , up to large batch cultures of hPSC derived nociceptors, (for
20 example, 1 x 107 - 1 x 108 cells in batches of 18 15cm dishes (approximately 5.5x10 7 cells),
   using LSB3i. These methods are contemplated to provide hPSC derived nociceptor cells for
   use in testing compounds for use in basic biology studies and for drug discovery applicable to
   medical applications in humans and animals. In particular, the inventors' contemplate the use
   of compositions and methods of the present inventions for treatments to reduce acute and
25 chronic pain in humans and animals.
                                                     58

            In particular, large batch cultures are contemplated wherein exemplary 1 x 108 - 1 x
   109 hPSC cells are grown in batch embryoid body cultures using culture medium and
   exemplary compounds as described herein for providing exemplary nociceptor cells, for
   example, peptidergic nociceptor cells, in exemplary nonlimiting ranges of 7 x 107 - 7 x 108
 5 (wherein a 70% efficiency of nociceptor cell harvest is contemplated). Exemplary nociceptor
   cells are contemplated to express genes (i.e. mRNA and protein) identifying nociceptor cells,
   such as TACl, VGLUT2, and SLC15A3. Exemplary nociceptor cells are contemplated to
   express identification markers, such as ISLi, BRN3A, RET, RUNX1, Substance P, CGRP,
   etc.
10          In summary, the inventors' contemplate using compositions and methods of the
   present inventions to provide novel platforms in basic biology and drug discovery for the
   study and treatment of conditions associated with nociceptor cells, in particular pain, in
   humans and animals.
15
   VIII.    Derivation Of Melanocytes From Human Pluripotent Stem Cells: LSB-Mel.
            LDN-193189, SB431542, CHIR99021, EDNR3 and BMP
            Melanocytes are pigment-producing cells found predominantly in the epidermis
   where they establish a photo-protective barrier against UV-irradiation induced DNA damage.
20 Defects in melanocyte biology are associated with a number of pigmentation disorders
   including albinism, vitiligo, and piebaldism. Melanocytes are the cell-of-origin for malignant
   melanoma. However, understanding/treatment of these disorders is limited by the lack of
   experimental systems suitable for the study of human melanocytes in vitro.
            During the development of the present inventions, a protocol was discovered that
25 caused the rapid and highly efficient differentiation of human pluripotent cells into both
   neural cell precursors and neural crest (NC) precursors. Because skin melanocytes derive
   from neural crest cell precursors, the inventors discovered ways to use LSB-C derived neural
   crest cell lineage cells in order to direct differentiation along the melanocyte lineage into
   mature melanocytes.
30 In other words, pluripotent ESCs (embryonic stem cells) were induced to become neural crest
   precursor cells (LSB-C) which were induced to become melanocyte progenitors then induced
   to become differentiated melanocytes. This progression was modeled as a progressive
   specification along the melanocytic lineage, from pluripotent ESCs through neural crest
                                                     59

   precursor, towards more committed melanocyte progenitors before establishing a terminally
   differentiated state (see, schematic which shows an exemplary markers for each of these
   stages in Fig. 16). The inventors contemplate the use of these directed differentiated
   melanocytes in novel assays for identifying molecular mechanisms of melanocyte
 5 development. In particular, the inventors contemplate assays that use these directed
   differentiated melanocytes in combination with a recently established approach for deriving
   patient-specific induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs). This novel directed differentiated
   melanocytes are contemplated to generate assays for melanocyte-related models of human
   disease, such as including albinism, vitiligo, piebaldism, melanoma, and malignant
10 melanoma, etc.
           A.       Derivation of Neural Crest from Human ESCs (a first step in directed
   differentiation for producing melanocytes).
           Melanocytes arise from a transient, migratory population of cells unique to vertebrates
   known as the neural crest (NC) that arises during gastrulaion at the border between the neural
15 and non-neural ectoderm. The multipotent neural crest differentiates into an extensive range
   of derivatives determined, in part, by the anatomic location (axial level) of the NC cell.
            Considerable evidence in the literature identified Wnt, BMP, and TGF-3 signaling as
   key requirements in early neural crest specification. Of these, the two latter pathways are
   actively inhibited by the small molecule treatment of a dual SMAD inhibition protocol. As
20 described herein, the inventors discovered that BMP and TGF-P signaling were optimized for
   neural crest induction through early withdrawal of their respective inhibitors. Further, as
   described herein, the use of a small molecule GSK3p inhibitor (CHIR99021) which in turn
   activated Wnt signaling was discovered to produce populations expressing neural crest stem
   cell markers when added to LSB treated cells at Day 2 of treatment. Thus a modified dual
25 SMAD inhibition protocol combining optimized signaling for all three pathways was used on
   the Sox10::GFPcell line and found to enhance the induction of Sox10::GFP expressing
   neural crest to 65% of the population (LSB-C treatment).
            B.      Lineage Specification and Isolation of Neural Crest-Derived
   Melanoblasts.
30          The Sox10:: GFP expressing NC derived with LSB-C was then tested for competency
   to differentiate along the melanocyte lineage. Through the identification of cells co
   expressing Sox10::GFP and MITF, a marker expressed in but not unique to the melanocyte
                                                   60

   lineage, the presence of putative melanocyte precursors was confirmed at day 11 of the
   modified differentiation protocol (LSB-C) (Fig. 13A).
           A cell surface marker was needed that would allow identification of melanocyte
   lineages in order to further optimize the induction of these cell populations and subsequently
 5 isolate or purify specific types of melanocyte precursors. After a literature search, c-kit was
   identified as a candidate marker for presumptive melanocyte precursors. Markers for e-kit
   tested on the SoxI 0:. GFP +cells confirmed the presence of a low percentage (approximately
   9%) of Sox1O::GFP/c-kitco-expressing cells (Fig. 13B) that greatly enriched for the
   expression of early melanocyte markers (Fig. 13C). Further optimization of the
10 differentiation protocol revealed that the abundance of Sox]0::GFP/c-kitdouble positive
   cells were increased nearly four-fold through additional treatment with BMP4 and
   Endothelin-3 (LSB-Mel, Fig. 13D-E), two factors implicated in melanocyte specification.
            C.     Expansion and Maturation of Melanocytes.
            The inventors discovered that presumptive melanocyte precursors can be matured to a
15 pigmented state following as little as six additional days in culture post-sort (Fig. 14A-B).
   Surprisingly, the inventors' observed that both Sox1O::GFP/c-kitdouble positive and single
   positive populations for each of the two markers gave rise to pigmented cells, although with
   different kinetics (Fig. 14C), indicating a lineage hierarchy between the three populations
   (cKit+/SOX1O-, cKit-/SOX1O+, cKit+/SOX10+). The identification of these 3 melanocyte
20 lineage cells was contemplated to allow the isolation of differentiation intermediates along
   the melanocyte lineage.
            With the use of these melanocyte precursor cells the optimal maturation conditions
   capable of inducing and supporting cells which possess mature melanocyte phenotypes was
   identified using a large number of compounds contemplated to support such maturation.
25 Melanocyte characteristics evaluated included induction of spindle morphology,
   pigmentation, and melanosome formation.
            The inventors discovered that addition of BMP4 and cAMP to the culture medium
   promoted a mature spindle-like morphology and pigmentation (Fig. 14D). Pure cultures of
   melanocytes were obtained when cells were propagated for eight weeks (long-term) in culture
30 media containing SCF, EDN3, FGF, Wnt (CHIR), BMP4, and cAMP on the basis of
    expression of the mature melanocyte markers MITF, SOXl0, Tyrpl, and HMB45 (Fig. 15A).
   A dark pellet was observed when long-term LSB-MEL cells were centrifuged to estimate
   pigment concentration (Fig. 15B). Electron microscopic ultrastructural characterization of
                                                    61

   mature melanocytes revealed the presence of numerous darkly pigmented melanosomes in
   the cytoplasm of LSB-Mel derived melanocytes (Fig. 15C) at various developmental stages
   (Fig. 15D).
              D.      Melanocytes Are Derived From Human Pluripotent Stem Cells:
 5 LSB-Melanocytes (LSB-Mel).
           The following describes exemplary compositions and methods for providing
   melanocytes for use in related disease modeling.
           A Sox1O::GFPBacterial Artificial Chromosome (BAC) human embryonic stem cell
   (hESC) reporter line was generated that allowed monitoring of neural crest cell induction in
10 vitro as this cell line responds to contact with small molecules. Sox10 was the most robust
   early marker of multipotent neural crest stem cells and was also found expressed in some
   neural crest derivatives, including melanocyte progenitors. This reporter system was used to
   prospectively identify and isolate neural crest populations in the development of a directed
   differentiation scheme in order to produce melanocyte cultures with higher purity and
15 numbers than obtained with previous maturation schemes (Figure 14, LSB-C).
           In a dual SMAD inhibition protocol (Chambers, et al. Nat. Biotech. (2009), herein
   incorporated by reference), human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs) treated with two small
   molecules to inhibit SMAD signaling efficiently produced CNS neural tissues. Additionally
   when hESC was plated at lower densities, low levels of spontaneous neural crest cell
20 induction was observed (for example, approximately 3% Sox1O::GFP+neural crest type cells
   were observed). However, for use in research and for medical studies, larger numbers of
   neural crest type cells were needed. Further, for melanocyte research, a purer population
   with larger numbers of cells were necessary that were not provided with the low level
   spontaneous differentiation.
25         During the development of the present inventions the inventors discovered methods to
   optimize the dual SMAD inhibition protocol for neural crest induction in a manner that would
   produce highly pure yields of melanocyte precursors, maturing melanocytes and mature
   melanocytes.
              Specifically, the following time line of culturing conditions was developed that
30 produced melanocytes of the present inventions: Feed on Day 0 and 1 with LDN and SB
   (using the same concentration ranges as LDN and SB in methods comprising 3i); Feed on
   Day 2 with LDN, SB, CHIR (using the same concentration ranges as LDN, SB, and CHIR in
   methods comprising 3i as described herein); In one embodiment, Feed on Day 3 with SB,
                                                    62

   CHIR (using the same concentration ranges as SB and CHIR in methods comprising 3i as
   described herein), in another embodiment Feed on Day 3 with LDN, SB, CHIR (using the
   same concentration ranges as LDN, SB, and CHIR in methods comprising 3i as described
   herein); Feed on Day 4 and 5 CHIR (using the same concentration ranges as CHIR in
 5 methods comprising 3i as described herein); Feed on Day 6 to 11 CHIR, BMP4, and EDN3
   (using the same concentration ranges as CHIR in methods comprising 3i as described herein,
   see concentration ranges below for BMP4 and EDN3). On day 11 cells were passaged and
   fed with MEL media (including CHIR) up to 8 weeks.
             MEL media enriched for melanocytes such that by 8 weeks the cell cultures showed
10 up to 100% of apure population. Thus this LSB-MEL method/protocol had a high efficiency
   of melanocyte production. The inventors also discovered during the development of
   melanocytes that Linoleic Acid was at least one required ingredient in the MEL medium (see,
   FIG. 16).
             During the development of melanocytes, multiple precursor stages were observed in
15 the following order: neural crest stem cell, embryonic glial-melanoblast stem cell, adult
   melanocyte stem cell, melanocyte, see, exemplary schematic in Fig. 13.
   Figure 13. Specification and isolation of melanocyte progenitors/melanoblasts.
   The 11-day LSB-C protocol supported the derivation of Sox]O::GFP,MITF co-expressing
   melanocyte progenitors (A, right panel). MITF single positive populations was observed (A,
20 left panel). c-Kit was identified as a potential marker of melanocyte progenitors. A low
   percentage of Sox]O::GFP,c-kit co-expressing cells were observed after LSB-C
   differentiation (B, orange population). qRT-PCR analysis confirmed the enrichment of
   melanocyte markers MITFM (a basic-helix-loop-helix-leucine zipper protein) and Dct
   (Dopachrome tautomerase (dopachrome delta-isomerase, tyrosine-related protein 2)) in the
25 double positive population (C). Treatment with BMP4 and EDN3 ("LSB-Mel") enhanced
   induction of the Sox1 0:: GFP, c-kit double positive putative melanocyte progenitor
   population (D). Sox10:: GFP, c-kit double positive cells isolated following LSB-Mel
   treatment exhibited significantly higher levels of melanocyte markers MITFM and Det (E).
   Error bars represent s.e.m. * p<0.05.
30 Figure 14. Expansion and Maturation of Melanocyte Precursors.
    Summary of differentiation conditions (A). Following specification in LSB-C conditions with
   BMP4 and EDN3 (LSB-Mel) cells were sorted at day 11 and replated. Post-sort (PS) cells
   were maintained in maturation media containing c-kit ligand (SCF), endothelin 3 (EDN3),
                                                    63

   fibroblast growth factor (FGF), and Wnt activators. Pigmented cells observed by brightfield
   microscopy at day 6 PS were positive for the melanocyte marker MITF but appeared to have
   downregulated the Sox] 0:: GFP reporter (B). All populations except the Sox 0:: GFP, c-kit
   double negative eventually gave rise to MITF expressing cells and macroscopic pigmented
 5 clusters, but at differing rates (C). Treatment with BMP4 and cAMP enhanced the
   differentiation into pigmented cells exhibiting a spindle-like morphology typical of
   melanocytes (D).
   Figure 15. Characterization of Mature Melanocytes.
   Pure populations of mature melanocytes derived with the LSB-Mel protocol maintain the
10 expression of common melanocyte markers including MITF, Sox10, TyrpI (Tyrosinase
   related protein 1), and HMB45 after greater than 8 weeks in culture (A). Melanocytes retain
   their darkly pigmented phenotype over several weeks in passage (B). 1x10 6 cells were
   pelleted and photographed to assess pigmentation levels. Electron microscopic ultrastructural
   characterization of mature melanocytes (C, D). The presence of numerous darkly pigmented
15 melanosomes in the cytoplasm of LSB-Mel derived melanocytes were observed by TEM (C).
   Note the presence and progressive deposition of melanin pigment with the maturation of
   melanosome vesicles from stages I through IV (D).
           Therefore, the inventors demonstrated that a dual SMAD inhibition protocol, LSB,
   rapidly and efficiently generated Sox]0:: GFP expressing neural crest populations from
20 human embryonic stem cells. This modified protocol supported the induction of low levels of
   melanocyte progenitors, which were prospectively identified and isolated by c-kit expression.
   Induction of these cells was further enhanced through treatment with BMP4 and EDN3.
   Melanocyte progenitors were subsequently matured to a pigmented state following additional
   culture in vitro in the presence of BMP4 and cAMP.
25
30
                                                   64

   Cell Medium for LSB-MEL:
   Mel-i Media:
           NeuroBasal                         Invitrogen 21103049                50%
     DMEM Low Glucose                           Invitrogen 11885                 30%
           MCDB201                                Sigma M6770                    20%
               B27                           Invitrogen 17504-044                2%
               ITS                                 Sigma 1314                     1%
      Linoleic Acid-BSA                           Sigma L9530                     1%
              L-glut                            Gibco 25030-164                  250    nM
         Dexamethasone                            Sigma D2915                    0.05   uM
         Cholera Toxin                            Sigma C8052                     50   ng/ml
              L-AA                                Sigma A5960                     100   uM
               SCF                              Peprotech 300-07                  50   ng/ml
              EDN3                  American Peptide Company 88-5-1OB             100    nM
              FGF2                        R&D 233-FB-OO1MG/CF                      4   ng/ml
              cAMP                                Sigma D-0260                   500     uM
             BMP4                                 R&D 314-bp                      25   ng/ml
               Chir                             Stemgent 04-0004                   3     uM
     Day 6-11:
        BMP4                               R&D 314-bp                           25    ng/ml
        EDN3                 American Peptide Company 88-5-1OB                  100     nM
 5           Concentration ranges for BMP4 from R&D: used between 1Ong/ml to 1OOng/ml (in
   one embodiment at 25ng/ml), and EDN from American Peptide Company is used at 25-300
   nM (in one embodiment at 1OOnM).
   Figure 16. Shows an exemplary LSB-MEL medium formulation that required Linoleic Acid
   for growth of melanocytes. Medium component shown above microscopic views represent
10 the medium component left out of the formulation; Ph= phase contrast; BF=bright filed. An
   exemplary schematic shows melanocyte progenitor markers used for identifying cells of the
   present inventions.
           Thus the inventors discovered and developed a rapid and defined protocol for the
   induction of neural crest in vitro. Further, the inventors used this rapid and defined protocol
15 for the induction of neural crest cells in vitro for developing compositions and methods for
   directed differentiation of these cells into melanocytes. These melanocytes were unique in
   their capability for long-term culture and continuous production of eumelanin.
                                                     65

            Therefore the derivation of melanocytes from human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) is
   contemplated to provide a valuable tool for further investigations into melanocyte disease
   biology.
 5 EXPERIMENTAL
            The following examples serve to illustrate certain embodiments and aspects of the
   present invention and are not to be construed as limiting the scope thereof. In the
   experimental disclosures which follow, the following abbreviations apply: N (normal); M
   (molar); mM (millimolar); iM (micromolar); mol (moles); mmol (millimoles); ptmol
10 (micromoles); nmol (nanomoles); pmol (picomoles); g (grams); mg (milligrams); ptg
   (micrograms); ng (nanograms); pg (picograms); L and (liters); ml (milliliters); ptl
   (microliters); cm (centimeters); mm (millimeters); pm (micrometers); nm (nanometers); U
   (units); min (minute); s and sec (second); deg (degree); pen (penicillin), strep (streptomycin)
   and 'C 10 (degrees Centigrade/Celsius).
15          The following formulations describe exemplary cell culture medium for use in
   developing embodiments of the present inventions.
   hESC medium for maintenance (1 liter): 800 mL DMEM/F12, 200 mL of Knockout Serum
   Replacement, 5 mL of 200 mM L- Glutamine, 5 mL of Pen/Strep, 10 mL of 10 mM MEM
   minimum non-essential amino 15 acids solution, 55 LM of 1 3-mercaptoethanol, and bFGF
20 (final concentration is 4 ng/mL).
   KSR medium for hESC differentiation (1 liter): 820 mL of Knock out DMEM, 150 mL of
   Knock out Serum Replacement, 10 mL of 200 mlM L-Glutamine, 10 mL of Pen/Strep, 10 mL
   of 10 mM MEM, and 55 tM of 13- mercaptoethanol.
   N2 medium for hESC differentiation (1 liter): 985 ml dist. H 2 0 with DMEM/F12 powder,
25 1.55 g of glucose (Sigma, cat. no. G7021), 2.00 g of sodium bicarbonate (Sigma, cat. no.
   S5761), putrescine (100 uL aliquot of 1.61 g dissolved in 100 mL of distilled water; Sigma,
   cat. no. P5780), progesterone (20 uL aliquot of 0.032g dissolved in 100 mL 100% ethanol;
   Sigma, cat. no. P8783), sodium selenite (60 uL aliquot of 0.5 mM solution in distilled water;
   Bioshop Canada, cat. no. SEL888), and 100 mg of transferrin (Celliance/Millipore, cat. no.
30 4452-01), and 25 mg of insulin (Sigma, cat. no. 16634) in 10 mL of 5 mM NaOH.
   Dulbecco's Modification of Eagles Medium (DMEM), with 10% FBS for preparing PMEF
   ((primary mouse embryo fibroblast (PMEF)) feeder cells) (1 liter): 885 mL of DMEM, 100
   mL of FBS, 10 mL of Pen/Strep, and 5 mL of L-Glutamine.
                                                  66

   Alpha Minimum Essential Medium (MEM) with 10% FBS for preparing MS-5 feeder cell
   medium (1 liter): 890 mL of Alpha MEM, 100 mL of FBS, 10 mL of Pen/Strep Gelatin
   solution (500 ml): Dissolve 0.5 g of gelatin in 500 ml of warm (50-60 'C) Milli-Q water.
   Cool to room temperature.
 5                                          EXAMPLE I
                                       Materials And Methods
            The following examples describe exemplary materials and methods used during the
   development of the present inventions.
   Cells and culture conditions. Human embryonic stem cell (hESC) cell (WA-09; passages 32
10 50) and hiPSC lines (C14, C72; passages 10-20) were cultured with mouse embryonic
   fibroblasts (MEFs, Globalstem, Rockville, State of Maryland, United States of America
   (USA)) pre-plated at 12-15,000 cells/cm 2 . Human induced pluripotent stem cell (hiPSC)
   lines were generated as reported (Papapetrou, et al., Proc Natl Acad Sci US A 106, (2009),
   herein incorporated by reference). Medium containing Dulbecco's Modified Eagle Medium
15 (DMEM)/F 12, 20% knockout serum replacement, 1mM L-glutamine (Invitrogen, Carlsbad,
   State of California, USA), 100 pM MEM non-essential amino acids (Invitrogen), and 0.1 mM
   p-mercaptoethanol    (Invitrogen) was made. 6ng/ml Fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF-2, R&D
    Systems, Minneapolis, State of Minnesota) was added after sterile filtration and cells were
   fed daily and passaged weekly using 6U/mL dispase (Worthington Biochemical, Lakewood,
20  State of New Jersey, USA). The SOX1O::GFP bacterial artificial chromosome cell line was
   generated as reported (Placantonakis, et al., Stem Cells 27, 521-532, (2009), herein
   incorporated by reference).
   Neural and nociceptor induction. Neural induction was performed as previously reported
    (Chambers, et al., Nat Biotechnol 27, (2009), herein incorporated by reference). Briefly, cells
25  were collected then rendered to a single cell suspension using ACCUTASE (Sigma-Aldrich
    Corp. St. Louis, Missouri, USA) and plated on gelatin for 30 minutes to remove Mouse
    Embryonic Fibroblast (MEF) Feeder Cells (MEFs) (MEFs adhere to gelatin coated plate).
    Non-adherent cells were collected and plated on matrigel treated dishes at a density of 20
    40,000 cells/cm2 in the presence of MEF-conditioned hESC media containing 10 ng/ml FGF
30  2 and 10 pM Y-27632 (rho-kinase inhibitor - Tocris Bioscience). Neural differentiation was
    initiated when the cells were confluent using Knockout Serum Replacement (KSR) media
    containing 820 ml of Knockout DMEM, 150 ml Knockout Serum Replacement, 1 mM L
                                                   67

   glutamine, 100 pM MEM non-essential amino acids, and 0.1 mM p-mercaptoethanol. To
   inhibit SMAD signaling, 1O0nM LDN- 193189 and 10 pM SB431542 were added daily from
   day 0 (when SMAD signaling inhibitors LSB were added) through day 5. Cells were fed
   daily (i.e. 6 feedings with inhibitors, DO, D1, D2, D3, D4 and D5), and N2 media was added
 5 to the initial medium in increasing 25% increments every other day starting on day 4 (up to
   100% N2 on day 10). Nociceptor induction was initiated by the addition of the three
   inhibitors (unless otherwise indicated) at 3 pM CHIR99021, 10 PM SU5402, and 10 pM
   DAPT daily from days 2 through 10. After day 10, long-term culture media consisted of N2
   media containing 10-100 ng/ml human-pl-nerve growth factor (NGF), 10-100 ng/ml brain
10 derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and 10-100 ng/ml glial cell-derived neurotrophic factor
   (GDNF).
   Microscopy, antibodies, and flow cytometry (FACs). Cells were fixed with 4%
   paraformaldehyde for 20 minutes, washed with phosphate buffered saline (PBS),
   permeablized using 0.5% Triton X in PBS, and blocked using 1% BSA (bovine serum
15 albumin) in phosphate buffered saline (PBS). For glutamate staining, 0.05% gluteraldehyde
   was added to the fixative. Primary antibodies used for microscopy included PAX6; Paired
   box gene 6 (aniridia, keratitis) (Covance, Princeton, New Jersey, USA), TUJI; Neuron
   specific class III beta-tubulin (Covance, Princeton, New Jersey, USA), Ki67; Antigen KI-67;
   MK167 (Sigma-Aldrich Corp. St. Louis, Missouri, USA), ISL1 (Developmental Studies
20 Hybridoma Bank; DSHB), BRN3A; Brain-specific homeobox/POU domain protein 3A
    (Chemicon, Billerica, Massachusetts, USA), RET; Proto-oncogene Tyrosine-protein Kinase
   Receptor (R&D), RUNX1; Runt-related transcription factor I (Sigma-Aldrich Corp. St.
    Louis, Missouri, USA), MAP2; Microtubule-associated protein 2 (Sigma-Aldrich Corp. St.
    Louis, Missouri, United States of America), TRPV1; transient receptor potential cation
25  channel subfamily V member 1 (Neuromics Inc., Minneapolis, United States of America),
    Substance P (Neuromics Inc., Minneapolis, United States of America), CGRP; Calcitonin
    gene related peptide (Neuromics Inc., Minneapolis, United States of America). For flow
    cytometry, cells were fixed using the BD Cytofix/Cytoperm Kit (BD Biosciences
    Pharmingen), in one embodiment cells were additionally fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde.
30  Primary conjugated antibodies for flow cytometry were NTRK1 (neurotrophic tyrosine
    kinase, receptor, type 1)-APC (R&D Systems, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA), Nestin
                                                    68

   Alexa647 (BD Biosciences Pharmingen, San Diego, California, USA), TUJ1-Alexa488 (BD
   Biosciences Pharmingen, San Diego, California, USA).
   Electrophysiology. Neurotrophic tyrosine kinase, receptor, type 1 (NTRK1)+ sorted cells
   were plated on polyomithine/laminin/fibronectin treated glass cover slips on days 10-12 and
 5 allowed to mature for an additional 3 weeks in long term culture media. Cover slips were
   transferred to an artificial cerebral spinal fluid containing (in mM): 125 NaCl, 2.5 KCl,
   1.25K1 2 PO 4 , 1 Mg C12 , 2 CaCl 2 , 25 NaHCO 3, 1.3 ascorbate, 2.4 pyruvate, and 25 glucose,
   bubbled with 95%02 and 5%CO 2 ) at room temperature. An infrared- Differential Interference
   Contrast (DIC) microscope (Olympus) equipped with epifluorescence illumination, a charge
10 coupled device camera, and two water immersion lenses (X1 0 and X60) were used to
   visualize and target recording electrodes to the cells. The glass recording electrodes (7-9 MQ
   resistance) were filled with an intracellular solution consisting (in mM, pH 7.25) of 130 mM
   potassium gluconate, 16 mM KCl, 2 mM MgCl 2 , 0.2 mM EGTA, 10 mM HEPES, 4 mM
   Na 2 ATP, 0.4 mM Na 3GTP, and 0.2% Alexa-568. Action potential properties at threshold
15 currents were determined from cell recordings after application of an increasing series of
   300-ms current steps of 25 pA. Recordings were collected and analyzed using Axopatch
   700B amplifier and pCLAMP 10 software (Molecular Devices, Sunnyvale, California, United
   States).
   Gene expression profiling. Total RNA was isolated at days 2, 3, 5, 7, 9, and 15 of
20 differentiation of LSB or LSB3i treated hPSCs using Trizol LS. Samples were processed by
   the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center (MSKCC) Genomics Core Facility and
   hybridized to the Illumina Human HT-12 v4 Expression BeadChip. Normalization and
   model-based expression measurements were calculated using the Illumina analysis package
   (LUMI) from the Bioconductor project (www.bioconductor.org) with in the statistical
25 programming language R (http://cran.r-project.org/). Expression values are log2 of the fold
    change. Pair-wise comparison cut-off was significant if the multiple test corrected p-value
   was <0.05.
    Quantitative Real-time PCR. Total RNA was extracted using an RNeasy kit (Qiagen). For
    each sample, 1 ug of total RNA was treated for DNA contamination and reverse transcribed
30  using the Quantitect RT kit (Qiagen). Amplified material was detected using Quantitect
    SYBR green probes and PCR kit (Qiagen) on a Mastercycler RealPlex2 (Eppendorf). All
    results were normalized to a HPRT control and are from 4-6 technical replicates of 2-3
    independent biological samples at each data point.
                                                     69

                                              EXAMPLE II
      Contacting Human Pluripotent Stem Cells With SB431542 and LDN-193189 (LSB)
                                    Produced Neural Lineage Cells.
 5          The following example describes exemplary methods for providing cells of a neural
   lineage for use during development of the present inventions.
            Dual SMAD inhibition was previously used as a rapid and highly effective method for
   inducing one type of neural lineage cells from hPSCs (Chambers, et al., Nat Biotechnol 27,
   (2009), herein incorporated by reference). These neural lineage cells induced by molecules
10 including Noggin, had a default pathway that allowed development into central nervous
   system cells, i.e. neural cell fate. Follow up studies reported the use of a small molecule
   dorsomorphin (DM) instead of Noggin, that at least in part produced similar cells with
   differences in consistency of cultures (Kim, et al., Robust enhancement of neural
   differentiation from human ES and iPS cells regardless of their innate difference in
15 differentiation propensity. Stem Cell Rev 6, 270-281, (2010); Zhou, et al., High-Efficiency
   Induction of Neural Conversion in hESCs and hiPSCs with a Single Chemical Inhibitor of
   TGF-beta Superfamily Receptors. Stem Cells, 504, (2010), herein incorporated by reference).
            The inventors observed that cells generated using Noggin despite showing the same
   developmental stage as LDN treated cells, expression of the vast majority of the same
20 markers, and capable of a similar developmental potential to make various neural lineages,
   also showed differences, such as being more anterior on an anterior-posterior axis (i.e. more
   forebrain, more cells express FOXG1, and the like) compared to neural cells induced using
   LDN. Thus although LDN was used in place of Noggin to inhibit BMP among other
   signaling pathways, Noggin and LDN may have other types of activities which are different,
25 besides inhibiting BMP.
            In part due to the high expense of using Noggin, the inventors contemplated that the
   use of a BMP inhibitor might be able to substitute for Noggin in producing cells of neural cell
   fate. Therefore, a small molecule BMP inhibitor, LDN-1 93189, (Yu, et al., Nat Med 14,
    1363-1369, (2008), herein incorporated by reference) was used and found during the
30  development of the present inventions to replace Noggin, in combination with SB431542, for
    generating primitive neuroectoderm from hPSCs, cells that have neural cell fate, i.e. CNS
    cells (Fig. 2A). This combination treatment was termed LSB for the combination of these
    two inhibitors LDN-193189 and SB431542.
                                                    70

                                             EXAMPLE III
      Screening Small Molecules Using Neuronal Lineage Cells of The Present Inventions
       Resulted in Compounds That Produced PAX6 low and TUJ1 high Neuronal Cells.
            The following example describes using exemplary cells of a neural lineage from
 5 Example II for screening small molecule candidate compounds for use in directed
   differentiation.
            Specifically, in the context of dual SMAD inhibition (LSB), i.e. human ES cells were
   first treated with LSB (LDN-1 93189 and SB431542) for screening candidate compounds (i.e.
   small molecules) under approximately 400 conditions in order to find combinations of small
10 molecules that might accelerate the acquisition of postmitotic neuron markers starting from
   human ES cells. Candidate compounds were chosen from molecules that targeted (altered)
   cell signaling pathways known to be important and frequently used in developmental studies
   in order to determine cell fates (for example, signaling pathways such as FGF, Notch, WNT,
   SHH (Sonic Hedgehog), etc.) for determining cells capable of CNS development. As one
15 example, 4 types of inhibitors (i.e. SU/DAPT/CHIR/Cyclopamine) were tested in different
   combinations (as fed to cells in cell medium) on different days of LSB treatment. Each
   treatment was then screened on Day 10 for TUJ 1/PAX6 expression. As one example of a
   treatment condition: LSB was fed daily, CHIR and SU were added to the medium to feed
   cells daily on days 4-10.
20          In general, results of screening treatments resulted in large numbers of cultures
   containing dead cells. In other words, viable culture conditions during this screen were found
   much less frequently than unviable conditions (i.e. cell death), for example, when SU/DAPT
   was added to early cultures, i.e. prior to day 2. The inventors contemplated that CNS stem
   cells depend on FGF signaling and gamma-secretase activity/Notch signaling for survival,
25 therefore when CHIR was absent when SU/DAPT induced cells to switch from CNS to
   neural crest, instead of switching, the cells died.
            On day 10 after addition of LSB, cells that survived during the screen were monitored
   for the loss of the human neuroectoderm marker PAX6 (Zhang, et al., Cell Stem Cell 7, 90
   100, (2010), herein incorporated by reference) and initiation of neuronal differentiation by
30 TUJI expression (Lee, et al., Cell Motil Cytoskeleton 17, 118-132, (1990), herein
   incorporated by reference). The cells were stained for neurons (TUJ1+) and a loss of
   neuroectoderm (observation of fewer PAX6+ cells) using an antibody that binds the C
   terminus of PX6), by immunofluorescence (immunoF). This screening was done on the
                                                    71

   numerous combinations of inhibitors (for example, SU, SU/DAPT, SU/DAPT/CHIR,
   DAPT/CHIR, SU/CHIR, SU/Cyclopamine, etc.) were added in variations of daily feedings
   on combinations of days, (for example, days 0-10, 1-10, 2-10, 3-10, etc.). In general, results
   were determined by observing comparative amounts of TUJ1+/PAX6- staining of cells
 5 generated by each treatment such that the conditions and compounds showing the highest
   amounts of TUJ1+/PAX6- staining were chosen as successful for providing cells for further
   analysis. One example of a small molecule that was considered a failure during the screening
   test for producing cells that were TUJ 1+/PAX6- by immunostaining of cells was
   Cyclopamine. Cyclopamine appeared to have no effect on cells for producing TUJ1/PAX6
10 staining no matter when it was added. In other words, the cell morphology remained similar
   to those cells with LSB treatment alone (i.e. > 90% PAX6+ and < 10% TUJ1+) on day 10 by
   immunofluorescence.
            However, during the screen the inventors discovered that a specific combination of
   three small molecules (SU5402, CHIR99021, and DAPT; termed 3i for three inhibitors),
15 added on day 2 of LSB treatment (Fig. 6A and B), abolished PAX6 expression and induced
   TUJ1 in hPSCs at day 10 of differentiation (Fig. 2A and B). This was a surprising discovery
   because at day 2 of LSB treatment the treated cells were not yet known to have a neural cell
   fate or for having the capability to develop into a neural cell fate. Instead, 3i treatment
   directed cells away from a neural cell fate into neural crest cells which were further
20 differentiated into the nociceptor cells of the present inventions.
            The functions for each of these small molecules was then researched in order to
    discover which signaling pathways were contemplated to be involved in converting a
   PAX6+TUJ1- human ES cell population into a PAX6-TUJ1+ population. First, SU5402 was
   reported as a potent inhibitor of VEGF, FGF, and PDGF tyrosine kinase signaling (Sun, et al.,
25  J Med Chem 42, 5120-5130, (1999), herein incorporated by reference). Thus in general it was
    contemplated that at least one of the small molecules was involved with inhibiting FGFR
    signally pathways. Secondly, CHIR99021 was reported as a WNT agonist by selectively
    inhibition of GSK-3 P which stabilized  Pj-catenin (Bennett, et al., JBiol Chem 277, 30998
    31004, (2002), herein incorporated by reference). Thus in general it was contemplated that at
30  least one of the small molecules was involved with activating at least one of the WNT
    signalling pathways through glycogen synthase kinase 3fP (GSK3p) inhibition. And thirdly,
    DAPT was reported as a y-secretase inhibitor capable of blocking Notch signaling (Dovey, et
    al., JNeurochem 76, 173-181 (2001), herein incorporated by reference). Thus in general it
                                                    72

   was contemplated that at least one of the small molecules was involved with inhibiting at
   least one Notch signaling pathway.      Thus in one embodiment, one of the small molecules
   was contemplated as a nonselective or pan-Notch inhibitor. In another embodiment, one of
   the inhibitors is an inhibitor of y-secretase molecules, capable of blocking at least one Notch
 5 signaling pathway. Therefore, in one exemplary embodiment, a combination of inhibitors
   would include at least one small molecule involved with inhibiting FGFR signalling
   pathways, at least one small molecule involved with inhibiting at least one Notch signaling
   pathway, and at least one small molecule involved with inibiting GSK-3 P while activating at
   least one of the WNT signalling pathways for producing PAX6-TUJ1+ human neuronal cells
10 of the present inventions. In further embodiments one of the inhibitors was capable of
   blocking at least one y-secretase molecule in the Notch signaling pathway.
                                              EXAMPLE IV
            TUJ1+ neuronal cells show a loss of expression of cell proliferation markers.
             The following example describes an exemplary method for determining the
15  maturational (cell cycle) stage of TUJl+ neuronal cells.
             Upon maturation, neurons produced in culture ceased to undergo mitosis while
    loosing Ki67 and phospho-histone H3 (PHH3), markers of cell proliferation (Gerdes, et al.,
    Int J Cancer 31, 13-20 (1983), herein incorporated by reference) and G2/M-phases of mitosis
    (Hendzel, et al., Chromosoma 106, 348-360 (1997), herein incorporated by reference),
20  respectively. Therefore, cells produced using LSB in combination with 3i (i.e. LSB3i) were
    passaged to a lower density, approximately 10-100,000 cells /cm2 and tested for cell
    proliferation markers, Ki67 and phospho-histone H3 (PHH3), after fixation to better assess
    expression, in individual cells. In particular, expression of Ki67 was known to be a better
    predictor of proliferation. Thus, compared to cells cultured in LSB without 3i compounds,
25   after 12 days fewer cells, 50% and 16%, cultured in the presence of 3i showed a loss of
     Ki67+ and pHH3+ cells, respectively (Fig. 2 C-F).
             Intercellular FACS staining for Nestin, a marker of neural progenitors, and P3-tubulin
     (TUJ1) a marker of neuronal differentiation, was performed to quantify the efficiency
     (percentage) of neuronal differentiation using LSB3i compared to LSB alone as a control in
30   addition to LSB/CHIR (CHIR99021;C), SU/DAPT (SU5402/DAPT), SU/CHIR (SU5402/
     CHIR99021), DAPT, SU (SU5402), CHIR (Fig. 2G). In the presence of LSB, SU/DAPT,
     DAPT, SU and CHIR, the majority of cells expressed Nestin. In particular, > 95% of the LSB
                                                     73

   cell population were Nestin+. Numerous cells showed Nestin staining after dual SMAD
   inhibition but were not quantitated while longer term cultured cells, i.e. 19 days, showed
   TUJI+ neurons where the majority of these cells co-expressed tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)
   identifying potential dopaminergic neurons (Chambers, et al., Nat Biotechnol 27, (2009),
 5 herein incorporated by reference). Conversely, when LSB contacted cells were contacted 2
   days later with the 3i compounds, after 10 days approximately 25% of cells expressed Nestin
   while approximately 75% of cells expressed TUJ1, demonstrating efficient conversion to a
   neuronal cell fate after short-term cell culture, i.e. less than 19 days.
            Surprisingly, LSB treatment followed 2 days later by contacting cells with
10 CHIR99021 and either one of DAPT or SU resulted in 50% of the cell population
   differentiating into TUJ1+ cells. When each of the three inhibitors was used alone after LSB
   treatment, 20% or fewer cells were TUJ1+. Therefore CHIR99021 was discovered as the key
   contributor to directed differentiation of this cell population into TUJ1+ neuronal cells. The
   inventors contemplated directed differentiation of nestin+ TUJ 1- cells into nestin-TUJ 1+
15 neuronal cells was dependent on inibition of GSK-3p while activating at least one of the
   WNT signalling pathways in addition to inhibiting either FGF receptor pathways or a gamma
   secrease within a Notch signalling pathway. Further, the addition of the 3i compounds
   resulted in a conversion of an additional 25% nestin-TUJI+ neuronal cells, see, Fig 2G.
            In summary, the neuronal population derived from a preferred embodiment of 3i
20 treatment 2 days after LSB treatment was further examined. This population showed high
    expression of the neuronal marker TUJ1 compared to cells treated with LSB alone (Fig.
   2A,B) as well as loss of Ki67 (Fig. 2C,D). Loss of Ki67 indicates reduction in cell cycle
   which is characteristic of post-mitotic differentiated neurons. Additionally, FACS analysis
   revealed that over 75% of the cell population treated with a preferred composition consisting
25  of LSB and 3i expressed TUJ 1 compared to 99% of the population treated with LSB alone
    which expressed Nestin, a progenitor marker (Fig. 2G).
                                              EXAMPLE V
     TUJ1+ Neurons Were Surprisingly Peripheral Nervous System (PNS) Cells Instead Of
                           Expected Central Nervous System (CNS) Cells.
30           The following example describes an exemplary method for identifying the type of
    TUJi positive neuron produced during the development of the present inventions.
             To further characterize the subtype of neurons obtained from a preferred embodiment
    of 3i treatment 2 days after LSB treatment, the TUJi positive population was stained for
                                                     74

   markers of various neuronal subtypes. Specifically, the dual-SMAD-inhibition protocol was
   known to generate PAX6+ neuroepithelial cells biased towards anterior forebrain identity
   expressing FOXG1 (Forkhead box protein G1) (Chambers, et al., Nat Biotechnol 27, (2009),
   herein incorporated by reference). Therefore, in order to determine the neuronal subtype
 5 identity following LSB3i treatment, cells were passaged to a lower density, approximately
   10-100,000 cells/cm 2 at day 10 and assessed for a range of marker expression at day 12
           Since the expected neuronal type was a CNS fate, the majority of initial markers
   tested were for identification of CNS type cells. In fact, a CNS forebrain neuron was
   expected since LSB cells default to this subtype (PAX6, FOXG1 positive). Surprisingly, at
10 least 12 negative results (an exemplary 10 are shown below) for CNS markers were obtained
   before staining for ISLI, a marker for PNS cells, was discovered. ISL1 is expressed by
   motoneurons and peripheral sensory neurons. BRN3A expression was tested and found to be
   expressed by LSB/3i cells. Therefore, the inventors discovered BRN3A+/ISL1+ neurons
   which indicated development of peripheral sensory neurons, see Table A, below.
15
   Table A: The following list of genes/proteins that represent numerous CNS fate molecules
   that were expected to be positive (expressed) on cells using the LDN/3i induced
   differentiation as described herein. However, these results showed an exemplary lack of
   CNS markers, results which were supported by the subsequent finding of potential markers
20 for PNS lineage, i.e. ISL1 and BRN3A.
   Gene/Protein      Marks (neuron type)            Result (IF or FACS)
   FOXG1             Forebrain                      Negative
   FOXA2             Midbrain                       Negative
   TBR1               Cortical                      Negative
   PAX6              Forebrain                      Negative
   AADC              Dopamine                       Negative
   TH                Dopamine                       Negative
   DCX                Pan-neuronal                  > 75%, costained with TUJI
   Nestin             Progenitors                   < 25%, counterstained with TUJ1
    ChAT              Cholinergic                   Negative
    GAD65             GABA                          Negative
    Reelin            Cortical and juvenile neurons Positive
    GABA              GABA                          Negative
    MASH1             Autonomic                     Negative
    BRN3A             Peripheral sensory            Positive
    ISL1              Motoneurons, Peripheral       Positive
                      sensory
                                                     75

            Surprisingly, homogenous expression of ISLI and BRN3A (red/darker areas within
   cells) (Fig. 3A and B) were observed on TUJl+ cells (green/lighter cell bodies compared to
   red staining) of the present inventions. ISL1 and BRN3A are key markers for sensory
 5 neurons (ISL1: Sun, et al., Nat Neurosci 11, 1283-1293, (2008); BRN3A: Gerrero, et al.,
   ProcNatl Acad Sci US A 90, 10841-10845 (1993), all of which are herein incorporated by
   reference). This discovery indicated that the neurons that resulted from LSB3i treatment were
   PNS rather than CNS cells. These results were in contrast to LSB cells that default to a CNS
   forebrain neuron subtype (PAX6+, FOXG1 positive).                This is quite a unexpected finding
10 as the high confluency of the stem cells upon initiation of the treatment, as represented by
   plating density, according to the teachings of the prior art, should have resulted in CNS
   derived neuronal populations. However, nociceptors are derived from neural crest cell
   populations which, according to the teachings of the prior art, are derived from low
   confluency of the stem cells upon initiation of the treatment, as represented by plating
15 density. In other words, the expectation was that a high initial plating density> 20,000
   cells/cm 2 of pluripotent stem cells at the time of initiation of LSB treatment would result in a
   committed CNS neuronal population. In contrast, a low initial plating density approximately
   10,000 cells/cm2 was known to be necessary to result in neural crest cells (Chambers et al,
   Nature Biotech, 2009 (See lower half of Figure 4), herein incorporated by reference in its
20 entirety).
                                             EXAMPLE VI
                Peripheral Nervous System (PNS) Neurons Were Discovered To Be
                                    Early Stage Nociceptor Cells.
            The following example describes using exemplary methods for determining which
25 type(s) of peripheral nervous system (PNS) neurons were produced using methods described
   herein.
            It was not known what type(s) of PNS neurons were produced by the methods
   described herein as there were several types of candidate neurons, such as sensory neurons
   and motor neurons, and further there were at least three major subsets of known sensory
30 neurons in the PNS including proprioceptor cells, mechanoceptor cells, and nociceptor cells.
            During development, early stage nociceptors were both peptidergic and
   nonpeptidergic and uniquely expressed NTRK1, RUNX1, followed by RET expression (for
   an example of information on RET, see, Woolf, et al., Neuron 55, 353-364, (2007), herein
                                                    76

   incorporated by reference). Duplicate early stage LSB3i-cultures with TUJ1+ neurons were
   tested for RET expression (Fig. 3C), and discovered to be positive for this marker (red/darker
   areas within cells in the larger box compared to TUJ 1+ staining (green/lighter cell bodies
   compared to RET staining) and lighter stained areas within inserted RET box). (Fig. 3D), and
 5 greater than 60% of all cells in culture expressed NTRKI when measured by FACS at day 10
   (Fig. 3E).
            In summary, this population was positive for expression of ISLI, BRN3A, RET, and
   RUNX1 (Fig. 3A-D) indicating the production of early stage nociceptors (both peptidergic
   and nonpeptidergic). FACS analysis revealed that greater than 60% of these neurons were
10 positive for NTRKI (Fig. 3E). These markers collectively indicate that the neuronal
   population are peripheral sensory neurons, in particular nociceptors.
            Therefore a preferred embodiment of the combination of LSB with 3i treatment on
   day 2 results in unexpected formation of neural crest derived populations, namely
   nociceptors.
15          Further, the inventors combined information from several tests, including initial
   immunofluorescence results, i.e., BRN3A+, ISLl+, array data, i.e. TAC1 (Substance P)
   expression, then choosing a NTRK1 marker and finding NTRK1+ cells, in addition to
   observations described herein where cells obtained by LSB/3i treatment transitioned through
   neural crest and transiently expressing Neurogenini (NEUROGi) instead of differentiating
20 into a CNS fate. Thus the inventors contemplated that the resulting PNS cell was most likely
   a peptidergic nociceptor.
                                             EXAMPLE VII
                                   LSB3i Treatment Is Reproducible.
            The following example describes using exemplary methods of the present inventions
25  for determining reproducibility.
            To establish the generality of the present invention, the inventors repeated a preferred
    embodiment of the present invention combining 3i treatment 2 days after LSB treatment
   using hiPSC as the source of stem cells. Reproducibility of LSB3i treatment was accessed
    across additional hPSC lines including induced pluripotent stem cell (hiPSC) lines. The
30  current art describes any number of methods to produce hiPSC and will be known to those
    skilled in the art. In particular, two hiPSC lines (C14 and C72) were used that were
    generated by inserting genes such as Oct4 (octamer-binding transcription factor 4), Sox2
    (SRY (sex determining region Y)-box 2), Klf4 (Kruppel-like factor 4), and c-Myc
                                                    77

   (Transcription factor p64) and shown to efficiently neuralize (see, (Papapetrou, et al., Proc
   Natl Acad Sci., USA 106, (2009), herein incorporated by reference)).
            PAX6 expression was then examined by ImmunoF. LSB and LSB3i treatment of C14
   and C72 cell lines showed similar neuronal staining results when compared to human cell
 5 lines shown in Fig. 3A-D. Exemplary C14 staining results are shown in Fig. 4A-D while
   exemplary C72 staining results are shown in Fig. 8A-D for ISL1, BRN3A, RET, RUNX1 and
   TUJ1, as described above.
            LSB treatment of C14 and C72 cell lines homogeneously gave rise to Nestin positive
   cells (>95% of the treated cell population) and were capable of forming TUJ+ cells when
10 treated with combination of LSB3i as measured by FACS (40% for C14 and 33% for C72;
   Fig. 4E). These results were compared to H9 cell line (i.e. a hESC line) treated with LSB and
   LSB3i shown for LSB and LSB3i results in (Fig. 4E). Even higher neuron yields, from 40%
   and 33% measured by FACS, became > 90% of nuclei staining are neurons when sorted on
   NTRK1 were obtained in those two hiPSC lines upon passaging of bulk cultures into culture
15 vessels coated with MatrigelT M containing N2 media after sorting on NTRKI (Neurotrophic
   tyrosine kinase receptor type 1) marker expression. Cells were disaggregated with accutase,
   re-suspended in N2, and incubated on ice with APC-conjugated NTRK1 antibody (R&D) for
    15 minutes, washed, and re-suspended in N2 for FACS. After sorting the cells were cultured
   for 24 hours in N2 media, and fixed in place. Cells were collected and stained for BRN3A,
20 ISL1, TUJ1 and DAPI. In particular, numerous Nestin+ cells (red/dark staining) are shown
    for both C14 and C72 NTRK1- cells from LSB3i treated cells compared to few Nestin+ cells
    in the representative NTRK1+ LSB3i treated cell population (Fig. 9). Further, while few C14
   NTRK1- cells expressed TUJ1 cell line C27 showed a higher number of NTRK1- TUJ1+
    (green; bright staining). Both cell lines showed high numbers of Nestin-TUJ1+ cells as
25  observed compared to cell bodies identified by DAPI (blue; light nuclear) staining.
             In summary, hiPSC cells plated at a high confluency treated with LSB followed by 3i
    on day 2 resulted in the formation of neuronal cells positive for the nociceptor markers ISL1,
    BRN3A, RET, and RUNX1 (Fig. 4A-D, Fig. SA-D and Fig. 9.
                                             EXAMPLE VIII
30            CHIR99021 (C) Is The Key Factor For Inducing Neuronal Differentiation
                                From LSB Cultured Cells (i.e. LSB-C)
             The following example describes using exemplary methods for testing the efficacy of
     each compound for inducing directed neuronal differentiation.
                                                   78

           In order to gain mechanistic insights into the sufficiency of each compound found to
   associated with the induction of TUJ1+ cells of Example III, specific combinations of 3i
   compounds were tested for inducing cellular expression of Nestin and TUJI as measured
   using intercellular FACS (shown in Fig. IG). Nestin was used as a marker of the LSB neural
 5 lineage cells while TUJ1 was used to identify a downstream (i.e. more differentiated)
   neuronal cell.
               Although none of the individual factors yielded high numbers (greater than 60%)
   of TUJ1+ neurons, CHIR99021 in combination with either one of the other two signal
   inhibition factors was capable of generating moderate numbers of TUJl+ neurons (53% for
10 DAPT and 58% for SU5402). These data indicate that under the test conditions used herein,
   CHIR99021 was the key factor for accelerating neuronal differentiation while SU5402 and
   DAPT provided important, yet additive stimuli.
           Additionally, all 3 components of the 3i composition are required for the maximum
   yield of differentiated neurons (Fig. 2G).
15                                          EXAMPLE IX
              Artificial SOX10+ Cells Are Capable Of Producing Nociceptor Cells.
           The following example describes using exemplary methods of the present inventions
   for directed differentiation of engineered SOXI 0+ GFP expressing human cells.
           Nociceptor cells are contemplated to arise from two types of cell intermediates during
20 human development: specifically SOXI0+ chick embryo neural crest cells were found to be
   capable of generating trunk nociceptor cells flanking the spinal cord (George, et al., Nat
   Neurosci 10:1287-1293, (2007), herein incorporated by reference). Additionally, Xenopus
   laevis head placode tissue contributed to the trigeminal nociceptor cell population in facial
   tissue (Schlosser, et al., J Comp Neurol 418:121-146, (2000); Schlosser, et al., Dev Biol
25 294:303-351, (2006), herein incorporated by reference).
           Thus, in order to determine if a neural crest intermediate cell fate marked by SOX 10
   (Aoki, et al., Dev Biol 259, 19-33, (2003); Lee, et al., Nat Biotechnol 25, 1468-1475, (2007),
   herein incorporated by reference) in human cells would be observed during differentiation
   using a transgenic SOX]O::GFP bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) hPSC line. This
30 SOX] 0:: GFP (BAC) cell line was generated with enriched neural crest gene markers that co
   expressed with a GFP gene using methods previously reported (Placantonakis, et al., Stem
   Cells 27:521-532, (2009), herein incorporated by reference). The SOX10:GFP cell line was a
   sub-clone of the H9 hESC line. Cells were dissociated and gene delivery was performed
                                                   79

   using reagents (solution V), protocol (B-16), and equipment from Amaxa. The DNA
   nucleofected (transfected into the nucleus) was a bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC)
   containing the SOXI 0 gene with an inserted GFP, obtained from Gene Expression Nervous
   System Atlas [GENSAT] (accession number: GENSAT1-BX1086). The BAC was then
 5 modified to include a neomycin resistance gene for selection (see Tomishima, et al. Stem
   cells 25(l):39-45. Epub 2006 Sep 21 (2007, herein incorporated by reference) using cre/LoxP
   recombination from a selection cassette excised from the pL452 plasmid into the GENSAT
   BAC. After gene delivery hESCs were seeded as single cells in the presence of G41 8 for
   neomycin resistance selection and clones were manually picked and screened for the presence
10 of GFP upon differentiation. GFP cells were sorted to confirm the expression of SOXI0 and
   other neural crest markers by qRT-PCR.
            GFP expression was measured by FACS identification and sorting of SOX1O::GFP+
   cells at 4, 8, 12, and 16 days after initiating differentiation with LSB when two additional
   duplicate samples were contacted each with one of LSB then CHIR99021 (LSB/C) or LSB
15 with 3i.
            When CHIR99021 was present greater than 70% of these treated cells in culture
   became SOX1O::GFP+ by day 12 of differentiation for the culture conditions (70% for
   LSB/C and 80% for LSB3i; Fig. 5D and E). This result indicated that the majority of cells
   develop a neural crest identity, supporting the inventors' observation that CHIR99021 was
20 required for the generation of LSB3i nociceptor cells. Thus combined inhibition by these
   small molecules which inhibited tyrosine receptor kinase receptors and Notch signaling, in
   addition to contacting SU5402 and DAPT, respectively, accelerated neural crest cell fate,
   since LSB3i treated cells acquired a neural crest fate more rapidly in comparison to LSB/C
   treated hPSCs (Fig. 5D and E). The inventors contemplated that CHIR induced neural crest
25  and sensory neurons while SU accelerated neural crest marker expression and neuronal
    differentiation. Finally, the inventors contemplated that DAPT in combination with CHIR
    and SU accelerated neuronal differentiation. Further, the use of CHIR99021 in combination
   with LSB, i.e. LSB/C resulted in a slower conversion rate of over 60% of Nestin-TUJ1+
   neuronal cells compared to LSB3i between days 12 and 16 when using the engineered
30  SOX::GFP cells as a read-out.
                                                      80

                                             EXAMPLE X
       NTRK1+ Human Nociceptor Cells Produced By Methods Described Herein Showed
      Gene Expression Consistent with Peptidergic Cells And Electrophysiology Responses
                                Similar To Rat Nociceptor Cells In Situ.
 5           The following example describes using exemplary methods of the present inventions
    for determining the functional capability of nociceptor cells produced by methods described
    herein.
              LSB3i treated cells were examined for function, maturation stages, and behaviors in
    order to confirm that LSB3i derived neurons were bonafide nociceptor neuronal cells. After
10  LSB3i treatment of pluripotent stem cells resulted in nociceptor cells were obtained long term
    cultures were established from a plating density of 10-100,000 cells/cm 2 and passaged Day
    10, 30 days in culture in N2 medium supplemented with human-beta NGF, BDNF, and
    GDNF (see, Example I for additional details). Survival rate of these cells under longer-term
    culture conditions was found to be NGF dependent compatible with NTRK1+ nociceptor
15  status. LSB3i nociceptors expressed high levels of TUJI, ISLI, BRN3A (Fig. 7A-C) as
    shown previously, in addition to glutamate (Fig. 7C). Glutamate production was consistent
    with an excitatory glutamatergic neuron, i.e. a nociceptive afferent fiber that releases
    glutamate, and the capsaicin receptor TRPV1 (Fig. 7D), an important ion channel for noxious
     stimulus. On day 15 in culture two distinct growth processes could be identified for each
20  neuron (Fig. 7E, Fig. 12).
              The dendrite marker MAP2 was expressed primarily in one of the two processes in a
     polarized fashion (Fig. 7F). The bipolar nature of the neurons was in agreement with the role
     of sensory neuron in the peripheral ganglia with the cell body is located in the dorsal root
     ganglion projecting processes both towards the spinal cord and towards the periphery (Woolf,
25   et al., Neuron 55, 353-364, (2007); George, et al., Nat Neurosci 10, 1287-1293, (2007),
     herein incorporated by reference).
              In the presence of nerve growth factor (NGF), neurons were cultured long-term (for
     example, cells passaged day 10 and cultured up to day 30). LSB was withdrawn on day 5, 3i
     withdrawn from cells on day 10 when NGF/GDNF/BDNF were added into medium. The
 30  neurons were fed NGF/GDNF/BDNF from day 10 up to day 30. On Day 30, the number of
     days from initial LSB treatment, the neurons was observed to have started to self-organize
     into ganglia-like structures. This type of morphology is common to peripheral sensory
                                                     81

    neurons (Marmigere, et al., Nat Rev Neurosci 8, 114-127, (2007), herein incorporated by
    reference) (Fig. 7G, H, and I).
            Mature nociceptors are typically either peptidergic or non-peptidergic depending on
    expression of neuropeptides, such as calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP) and Substance P
 5  (a neuropeptide) expressed by peptidergic sensory neurons, (Woolf, et al., Neuron 55, 353
    364, (2007), herein incorporated by reference). In contrast, non-peptidergic neurons do not
    express CGRP nor Substance P and have other markers such as binding to the lectin IB 4.
            Therefore, LSB3i induced neurons were sorted for NTRK1 expression (see methods
    described above), using FACs, into NTRKl+ and NTRK1- populations (for example of a
10  sorted cell, see, Fig. 7G. NTRK1+ cells were positive for both Substance P and CGRP
    indicating primarily a peptidergic nocicieptors phenotype (Fig. 7H and I; day 30 of
    differentiation).
             A primary functional hallmark of sensory neuron identity (i.e. function) is their
     electrophysiological signature (Fang, et al., JPhysiol565, 927-943, (2005), herein
15   incorporated by reference). NTRKl+ sorted neurons were also tested by standard
     electrophysiology techniques for cultured neurons (Placantonakis, et al. Stem Cells. 2009,
     Figure 5 has an example, herein incorporated in its entirety)
             NTRK1+ cells exhibited a characteristic single action potential (AP),
     electrophysiological signature, firing pattern with an average membrane resting potential of
20   67 4 mV by day 21 after initial LSB3i treatment. The resulting AP timing and shape of
     action curve in LSB3i human neurons are shown in Fig. 7J, see thick red line) and Table 1
     below. These results were similar to those described previously in electrophysiological
     reports of primary anaesthetized adult rat nociceptors (Fang, et al., JPhysiol 565, 927-943,
     (2005), herein incorporated by reference).
25
 30
                                                     82

   Table 1: Electrophysiology of human LSB3i Cultured Cells compared to rat nociceptive
   and non-nociceptive dorsal root ganglion neurones in vivo.
      Action Potential          LSB3i Cells          Nociceptor Cells*       Mechanoreceptor
                                                                                 Cells*
      Duration at base               9.5                      6                     2
     (milli-second; ms)
          Rise time                  3.8                      2                    0.8
     (milli-second; ms)
   Fall Time, Tussman                 5.8                    3.5                    1
          and Misc.
     (milli-second; ms)
          Overshoot                   29                    22.5                    5
      (milli -volt; mV)
       80% Recovery                  15.1                    21                     5
     (milli-second; ms) I                          I                                           I
   * Fang, et al., J Physiol 565.3:927-943    (2005)
                                               Example X.
 5                         Gene Expression Of Cells Produced By Compositions
                                    And Methods Described Herein.
             The following example describes using exemplary methods for determining global
   gene expression of nociceptor cells and other cells types produced by methods described
   herein.
10           Global gene expression analysis was performed at fine temporal resolution (days 2, 3,
    5, 7, 9, and 15, NCBI Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) accession number GSE26867; for
   both LSB and LSB3i treated hPSCs to further characterize the timing of events (i.e. marker
    expression) during the induced differentiation process. When select markers for
    neuroectoderm, neural crest, neurons, and nociceptors were analyzed (see Table 2 below),
15  distinct phases of differentiation for each could be observed (Fig. 10).
    Table 2: Gene expression assigned to specific phases of differentiation during directed
    differentiation after contact with LSB-3i. See also, Fig. 10A.
    Phases of          Genes Expressed
    Differentiation
    Neurectoderm       PAX6,  OTX2, DLK1, DKKI, CUZD1
    Neural Crest       SOXI,    MSX1, ID2, AP2B, ETS1, FOXD3
    Neuron             NGN1,   DCX, TUBB3, SYT4, STMN2, INA, GAP43, ISLI, POU4F1
    Nociceptor         TACI,  VGLUT2, SLC15A3
20
                                                     83

            This gene expression analysis (Fig. 1OB,C and Table 2 above) was consistent with the
   majority of immunofluorescence results. For example, gene analysis showed that in maturing
   neurons, ISL1, POU4F1 (BRN3A), SOXI0, TACI (pro-peptide to Substance P), NTRK1,
   and the glutamate vesicular transporter VGLUT2 genes were all upregulated (i.e. the number
 5 of cells in culture increased the expression of these markers over time). Concurrently while
   these markers were observed to be increased on induced cells, markers for hESC-derived
   primitive neuroectoderm were observed to be downregulated (i.e. expressed on fewer cells in
   culture), in particular DLK1, LHX2, OTX2, LEFTY2, PAX6, and HES5.
            However, expression of somatostatin (SST) and SOX10 was found at day 15 in LSB3i
10 treated cell cultures, which is expected to be expressed in mature nociceptors. However, SST
   was also shown expressed in developing sensory neurons. Therefore, the inventors
   contemplated that this marker was indicating the presence of immature cells at day 15.
     Though somewhat down-regulated, SOXI0 expression was also observed at a time when
   most cells appeared to be neurons. This finding was unexpected since SOX1O was expected
15 to be downregulated as the cells differentiate into neurons. This unexpected discovery of
    SST and SOXI       expression in cells of day 15 cultures was contemplated as not all of the
   become nociceptors cells, approximately 20-30%. This indicated that other mature cell types
    (such as Schwann cells) continue to express SOX10.
            hESC-derived primitive neuroectoderm cell cultures produced by dual SMAD
20  inhibition in Chambers, et al., Nat Biotechnol 27, (2009); Fasano, et al., Cell Stem Cell 6,
    336-347, (2010), each of which are herein incorporated by reference), demonstrated high
    expression of DLK1, LHX2, OTX2, LEFTY2, PAX6, and HES5 genes. Likewise, similar
    high expression for these genes was observed when hESC-derived primitive neuroectoderm
    cell cultures were produced by dual SMAD inhibition using LSB (see Fig. 1OB,C and Table 3
25  below). These genes were reduced during LSB3i treatment while producing nociceptors
    during the development of the present inventions.
30
                                                     84

   Table 3: Timing of gene expression during directed differentiation with LSB-3i
   compared to LSB.
   LSB-3i             Genes upregulated                  Genes downregulated
   Differentiation
   compared to
   LSB control
   Day 7              ISL1, POU4F1 (BRN3A),              DLK1
                      SOX10, NTRKI, and the
                      glutamate vesicular transporter
                      VGLUT2
   Day 9              ISLI, POU4F1 (BRN3A),              DLKl and PAX6
                      SOX10, NTRK1, and the
                      glutamate vesicular transporter
                      VGLUT2
   Day 15             ISL1, POU4F1 (BRN3A),              DLKl, LHX2, OTX2, LEFTY2,
                      SOXI0, TACl (pro-peptide to        PAX6, and HES5
                      Substance P), and the glutamate
                    I vesicular transporter VGLUT2
 5         In addition, the temporal transcriptome analysis provided further evidence for
   nociceptor intermediate cell fates, distinct from mechanoceptor cells and proprioceptor cells.
   The neurogenin basic helix-loop-helix proteins mediate two sequential waves of neurogenesis
   in the dorsal root ganglia during mouse development (Marmigere, et al., Nat Rev Neurosci 8,
   114-127, (2007); Ma, et al., Genes Dev 13, 1717-1728 (1999), herein incorporated by
10 reference). The first wave, marked by NEUROG2 (Neurogenin-2) gives rise to
   mechanoceptor cells and proprioceptor cells, and the second marked by NEUROGI
   (Neurogenin-1) gives rise to nociceptor cells. When hPSCs are treated with LSB,
   NEUROG2 expression is strongly induced by day 7 (Fig. 10C and Table 4 below). In
   contrast, hPSCs treated with LSB3i show a less pronounced induction of NEUROG2 by day
15 7 but selective induction of NEUROGI by day 9 (Fig. 10C).
20
                                                   85

   Table 4: Timing of gene expression during directed differentiation with LSB-3i
   compared to LSB.
   neurogenin           Day 7                                 Day 9
   basic helix
   loop-helix
   genes
   expressed in
   treated hPSCs
   LSB-3i               No difference in NEUROGI              NEUROGI induction
                        compared to LSB control cells         No change in % of cells
                        No change in % of cells               expressing NEUROG2
                        expressing NEUROG2
   LSB control          No difference in NEUROGI              No difference in NEUROGI
                        NEUROG2 induction                     Downregulation of NEUROG2
 5                                              Example XII.
      Contemplated Large Scale Culture Using Compositions and Methods Of The Present
                         Inventions For Providing Exemplary Nociceptor Cells.
             The following contemplated description shows exemplary methods and uses for large
   scale production of nociceptor cells produced by methods described herein.
10           The scalable generation (i.e. methods contemplated to be successful for generating
   nociceptor cells from both cultures containing a relatively small number of cells, for example,
    1.5 x 104 cells/well of 48 well plates such as described in Examples, supra), and contemplated
   5x10   3 cells/well in 96 well plate , up to large batch cultures of hPSC derived nociceptors, (for
   example, 1 x 107- 1 x 108 cells in batches of 18 15cm dishes (approximately 5.5x10 7 cells),
15 using LSB3i. These methods are contemplated to provide hPSC derived nociceptor cells for
   use in testing compounds for use in basic biology studies and for drug discovery applicable to
   medical applications in humans and animals. In particular, the inventors' contemplate the use
   of compositions and methods of the present inventions for treatments to reduce acute and
    chronic pain in humans and animals.
20           In particular, large batch cultures are contemplated wherein exemplary 1 x 108 - 1 x
    109 hPSC cells are grown in batch embryoid body cultures using culture medium and
    exemplary compounds as described herein for providing exemplary nociceptor cells, for
    example, peptidergic nociceptor cells, in exemplary nonlimiting ranges of 7 x 107 - 7 x 108
    (wherein a 70% efficiency of nociceptor cell harvest is contemplated). Exemplary nociceptor
25  cells are contemplated to express genes (i.e. mRNA and protein) identifying nociceptor cells,
                                                       86

   such as TAC1, VGLUT2, and SLC15A3. Exemplary nociceptor cells are contemplated to
   express identification markers, such as ISLI, BRN3A, RET, RUNX1, Substance P, CGRP,
   etc.
            In summary, the inventors' contemplate using compositions and methods of the
 5 present inventions to provide novel platforms in basic biology and drug discovery for the
   study and treatment of conditions associated with nociceptor cells, in particular pain, in
   humans and animals.
   Table 5. Primer pairs used for amplification and identification of gene expression by
10 PCR.
                                                                      Product
    NANOG                                                    Tm (C)   (bp)              Reference
   Forward      CAGCTGTGTGTACTCAATGATAGATTTC                58        461      mRNA This study
   Reverse      GGAGAATTTGGCTGGAACTGCATG                    60        1840     genomic
    POU5F1l
    (OCT3/4)
    Forward     CCTGAAGCAGAAGAGGATCACC                       58       422      m RNA This study
    Reverse     CATAGTCGCTGCTTGATCGC                         57       1191     genomic
    POU5F1
    (O-CT3/4)
    (qIPCR)
    Forward     GAACCGAGTGAGAGGCAACCT                        60       80       in exon This study
    Reverse     GGGCGATGTGGCTGATCT                           58
    SOX2
    Forward     CAACATGATGGAGACGGAGC                         57       377      in exon This study
    Reverse     GCAGCGTGTACTTATCCTTCTTC                      57
    GAPDH
                                                                                        Joannides et
                                                                                        al. (2006)
    Forward     AGCCACATCGCTCAGACACC                         61       305      mRNA Stem Cells
    Reverse      GTACTCAGCGCCAGCATCG                         59       2153     genomic
    GAPDH
    (qPCR)
    Forward      GCACCGTCAAGGCTGAGAAC                        59       93        mRNA This study
    Reverse      CGCCCCACTTGATTTTGG                          55       222      genomic
    BMP4
    Forward      CCAACACCGTGAGGAGCTTC                        59       397       m RNA This study
    Reverse      GTCCGAGTCTGATGGAGGTG                        58        1360    genomic
    AFP
    Forward      GTGCTTCCACCACTGCCAATAAC                    |60       283       mRNA This study
    Reverse      GTTCATCTCCAGTGGGTTTCTCAA                   159       2057     genomic
     BRACHYU
     RY
     Forward     GATCACCAGCCACTGCTTCC                        59        161      m RNA This study
     Reverse     CTCCGGGTTCCTCCATCATCT                       59        1138     genomic
                                                  8PAX6
                                                  87

Forward  GGAGTGAATCAGCTCGGTGG      59   441    m RNA This study
Reverse  GGTCTGCCCGTTCAACATCC      59   2072   genonc
NCAM1
Forward  GGGCACTTATCGCTGTGAGG      59   334    m RNA This study
Reverse  CTCGCCAGCCTTGTTCTCAG      59   1868   genomic
SOX1
Forward  GCAAGATGGCCCAGGAGAAC       59  203    in exon   This study
Reverse  CTTGTCCTTCTTGAGCAGCGT      59
SOX-1
(qPCR)
Forward  GAGAACCCCAAGATGCACAA       56  70      in exon This study
Reverse  CCTCGGACATGACCTTCCA        57
BF1
                                                         Yan et al.
                                                         (2005) Stem
Forward  ACTCAGAACTCGCTGGGCAAC      60  226     in exon Cells
Reverse  CGTGGGGGAAAAAGTAACTGG      57
HA SMH
                                                         Kodama et
                                                         al. (2006)
                                                         Immunol.
Forward  CAAGTCAGCGCCCAAGCAAGTCAAG 64   384     in exon Cell Biol.
Reverse  GAGCCGGCCATGGAGTTCAAGTCGT 67
SIX3
 Forward CACTCCCACACAAGTAGGCAAC    159  264     m RNA This study
 Reverse CATACATCACATTCCGAGTCGCTG  59   1921    genomric
 DACH1
 Forward GGGCCAAAGTGGCTTCCTTC       60  363      mRNA This study
 Reverse CAGGAGACATGAGACCAGGGAC    160  184374 genomi
 EMX2
 Forward CGATATCTGGGTCATCGCTTCC     58  368      mRNA This study
 Reverse GAGGTCACGTCTATTTCCTCCG     58  4574     genomic
  GLl3
                                                         Zhu et al.
                                                         (2004)
                                                         Cancer
 Forward CAGCTCCACGACCACTGAA        58  318      mRNA    Letters
 Reverse TCCATGGCAAACACCGTCC        59  74979    genomic
 SHH
                                                          Li et al.
                                                         (2005)
                                                          Nature
 Forward  CCAATTACAACCCCGACATC      54  339      mRNA     Biotech.
 Reverse  CCGAGTTCTCTGCTTTCACC      56  8173     genomic            3
 N KX2.1
                                                          Zietlow et al.
                                                          (2005) J.
 Forward  TACTGCAACGGCAACCTG        56   205     mRNA     Anatomy
 Reverse  GCCATGTTCTTGCTCACGTC       58  1170    genomic
 HOXA4
 Forward  CGCTCTCGAACCGCCTACAC      61   181     in exon This study
 Reverse  GCAGTTTGTGGTCTTTCTTCCACT   59
 HOXB4

   Forward     CCCTGGATGCGCAAAGTTCAC                          60       252       mRNA This study
   Reverse     GGTGTTGGGCAACTTGTGGT                           60       1094      genomic
   MAP2
   Forward     GGCCCAAGCTAAAGTTGGTTCTC                       |60       255       mRNA This study
   Reverse     GCAGTGACATCCTCAGCCAAAG                         60       474       genomic
   SYT1
   Forward      TCATCTGATGCAGAATGGTAAGGG                     |58       199       mRNA This study
   Reverse      GTAGCCCACAAAGACTTTGCC                         58       4910      genomic
   PSD)95
   Forward      GGGAGAAGCAGCTCAACTCCAATCC                     59       180       mRNA This study
   Reverse      CCAGCAAGGCCTGGAAGAG                           59       371       genomic
   GFAP
   Forward      CCGCCACTTGCAGGAGTACCAG                        63       324       mRNA This study
   Reverse      TTCTGCTCGGGCCCCTCATGAG                        65       4041      genomic
   The following references are herein incorporated in their entirety:
   Joannides A, et al. (2006) Automated mechanical passaging: A novel and efficient method
   for human embryonic stem cell expansion. Stem Cells 24:230-235
 5 Kodama H, et al. (2006) Neurogenic potential of progenitors derived from human circulating
   CD14+ monocytes. Immunol Cell Biol 84:209-217.
   Li XJ, et al. (2005) Specification of motoneurons from human embryonic stem cells. Nat
   Bio technol 23:215-221.
   Yan Y, et al. (2005) Directed differentiation of dopaminergic neuronal subtypes from human
10 embryonic stein cells. Stem Cells 23:781-790.
   Zhu Y, et al. (2004) Functional Smoothened is required for expression of GLI3 in colorectal
   carcinoma cells. CancerLett 207:205-214.
   Zietlow R, et al. (2005) The survival of neural precursor cell grafts is influenced by in vitro
   expansion. JAnat 207:227-240.
15                                           Example X1L.
                  Melanocytes Are Derived From Human Pluripotent Stem Cells:
                                     LSB-Melanocytes (LSB-Mel).
           The following describes exemplary compositions and methods for providing
   melanocytes for use in related disease modeling.
20         A Sox1O::GFPBacterial Artificial Chromosome (BAC) human embryonic stem cell
    (hESC) reporter line was generated that allowed monitoring of neural crest cell induction in
   vitro as this cell line responds to contact with small molecules. Soxl 0 was the most robust
    early marker of multipotent neural crest stem cells and was also found expressed in some
                                                    89

   neural crest derivatives, including melanocyte progenitors. This reporter system was used to
   prospectively identify and isolate neural crest populations in the development of a directed
   differentiation scheme in order to produce melanocyte cultures with higher purity and
   numbers than obtained with previous maturation schemes (Figure 14, LSB-C).
 5         In a dual SMAD inhibition protocol (Chambers, et al. Nat. Biotech. (2009), herein
   incorporated by reference), human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs) treated with two small
   molecules to inhibit SMAD signaling efficiently produced CNS neural tissues. Additionally
   when hESC was plated at lower densities, low levels of spontaneous neural crest cell
   induction was observed (for example, approximately 3% Sox1O::GFP+neural crest type cells
10 were observed). However, for use in research and for medical studies, larger numbers of
   neural crest type cells were needed. Further, for melanocyte research, a purer population
   with larger numbers of cells were necessary that were not provided with the low level
   spontaneous differentiation.
           During the development of the present inventions the inventors discovered methods to
15 optimize the dual SMAD inhibition protocol for neural crest induction in a manner that would
   produce highly pure yields of melanocyte precursors, maturing melanocytes and mature
   melanocytes.
              Specifically, the following time line of culturing conditions was developed that
   produced melanocytes of the present inventions: Feed on Day 0 and 1 with LDN and SB
20 (using the same concentration ranges as LDN and SB in methods comprising 3i); Feed on
   Day 2 with LDN, SB, CHIR (using the same concentration ranges as LDN, SB, and CHIR in
   methods comprising 3i as described herein); In one embodiment, Feed on Day 3 with SB,
   CHIR (using the same concentration ranges as SB and CHIR in methods comprising 3i as
   described herein), in another embodiment Feed on Day 3 with LDN, SB, CHIR (using the
25 same concentration ranges as LDN, SB, and CHIR in methods comprising 3i as described
   herein); Feed on Day 4 and 5 CHIR (using the same concentration ranges as CHIR in
   methods comprising 3i as described herein); Feed on Day 6 to 11 CHIR, BMP4, and EDN3
   (using the same concentration ranges as CHIR in methods comprising 3i as described herein,
   see concentration ranges below for BMP4 and EDN3). On day 11 cells were passaged and
30 fed with MEL media (including CHIR) up to 8 weeks.
              MEL media enriched for melanocytes such that by 8 weeks the cell cultures showed
   up to 100% of a pure population. Thus this LSB-MEL method/protocol had a high efficiency
    of melanocyte production. The inventors also discovered during the development of
                                                    90

   melanocytes that Linoleic Acid was at least one required ingredient in the MEL medium (see,
   FIG. 16).
               During the development of melanocytes, multiple precursor stages were observed in
   the following order: neural crest stem cell, embryonic glial-melanoblast stem cell, adult
 5 melanocyte stem cell, melanocyte, see, exemplary schematic in Fig. 13.
   Figure 13. Specification and isolation of melanocyte progenitors/melanoblasts.
   The 11-day LSB-C protocol supported the derivation of Sox1O::GFP,MITF co-expressing
   melanocyte progenitors (A, right panel). MITF single positive populations was observed (A,
10 left panel). c-Kit was identified as a potential marker of melanocyte progenitors. A low
   percentage of Sox10:: GFP, e-kit co-expressing cells were observed after LSB-C
   differentiation (B, orange population). qRT-PCR analysis confirmed the enrichment of
   melanocyte markers MITFM (a basic-helix-loop-helix-leucine zipper protein) and Det
    (Dopachrome tautomerase (dopachrome delta-isomerase, tyrosine-related protein 2)) in the
15  double positive population (C). Treatment with BMP4 and EDN3 ("LSB-Mel") enhanced
    induction of the Sox1O::GFP,c-kit double positive putative melanocyte progenitor
    population (D). Sox10:: GFP, e-kit double positive cells isolated following LSB-Mel
    treatment exhibited significantly higher levels of melanocyte markers MITFM and Det (E).
    Error bars represent s.e.m. * p<0.05.
20  Figure 14. Expansion and Maturation of Melanocyte Precursors.
    Summary of differentiation conditions (A). Following specification in LSB-C conditions with
    BMP4 and EDN3 (LSB-Mel) cells were sorted at day 11 and replated. Post-sort (PS) cells
    were maintained in maturation media containing e-kit ligand (SCF), endothelin 3 (EDN3),
    fibroblast growth factor (FGF), and Wnt activators. Pigmented cells observed by brightfield
25  microscopy at day 6 PS were positive for the melanocyte marker MITF but appeared to have
     downregulated the Sox10::GFP reporter (B). All populations except the Sox10::GFP, c-kit
     double negative eventually gave rise to MITF expressing cells and macroscopic pigmented
     clusters, but at differing rates (C). Treatment with BMP4 and cAMP enhanced the
     differentiation into pigmented cells exhibiting a spindle-like morphology typical of
30   melanocytes (D).
     Figure 15. Characterization of Mature Melanocytes.
                                                     91

   Pure populations of mature melanocytes derived with the LSB-Mel protocol maintain the
   expression of common melanocyte markers including MITF, Soxl0, Tyrp1 (Tyrosinase
   related protein 1), and HMB45 after greater than 8 weeks in culture (A). Melanocytes retain
   their darkly pigmented phenotype over several weeks in passage (B). 1x106 cells were
 5 pelleted and photographed to assess pigmentation levels. Electron microscopic ultrastructural
   characterization of mature melanocytes (C, D). The presence of numerous darkly pigmented
   melanosomes in the cytoplasm of LSB-Mel derived melanocytes were observed by TEM (C).
   Note the presence and progressive deposition of melanin pigment with the maturation of
   melanosome vesicles from stages I through IV (D).
10          Therefore, the inventors demonstrated that a dual SMAD inhibition protocol, LSB,
   rapidly and efficiently generated Sox10::GFPexpressing neural crest populations from
   human embryonic stem cells. This modified protocol supported the induction of low levels of
   melanocyte progenitors, which were prospectively identified and isolated by c-kit expression.
   Induction of these cells was further enhanced through treatment with BMP4 and EDN3.
15 Melanocyte progenitors were subsequently matured to a pigmented state following additional
    culture in vitro in the presence of BMP4 and cAMP.
    Cell Medium for LSB-MEL: Mel-1 Media:
            NeuroBasal                       Invitrogen 21103049              50%
      DMEM Low Glucose                         Invitrogen 11885               30%
            MCDB201                              Sigma M6770                 20%
                B27                         Invitrogen 17504-044              2%
                ITS                               Sigma I314                   1%
        Linoleic Acid-BSA                        Sigma L9530                   1%
               L-glut                          Gibco 25030-164                250    nM
          Dexamethasone                          Sigma D2915                  0.05   uM
           Cholera Toxin                         Sigma C8052                   50   ng/ml
               L-AA                              Sigma A5960                   100    uM
                SCF                            Peprotech 300-07                50   ng/ml
               EDN3                  American Peptide Company 88-5-lOB         100    nM
               FGF2                       R&D 233-FB-0O1MG/CF                   4   ng/ml
               cAMP                              Sigma D-0260                  500    uM
               BMP4                               R&D 314-bp                   25   ng/ml
                Chir                           Stemgent 04-0004                 3     uM
       Day 6-11:
         BMP4                             R&D 314-bp                         25    ng/ml
         EDN3                  American Peptide Company 88-5-lOB             100     niM
                                                    92

             Concentration ranges for BMP4 from R&D: used between 1Ong/ml to 1OOng/ml (in
   one embodiment at 25ng/ml), and EDN from American Peptide Company is used at 25-300
   nM (in one embodiment at 100nM).
   Figure 16. Shows an exemplary LSB-MEL medium formulation that required Linoleic Acid
 5 for growth of melanocytes. Medium component shown above microscopic views represent
   the medium component left out of the formulation; Ph= phase contrast; BF=bright filed. An
   exemplary schematic shows melanocyte progenitor markers used for identifying cells of the
   present inventions.
            Thus the inventors discovered and developed a rapid and defined protocol for the
10 induction of neural crest in vitro. Further, the inventors used this rapid and defined protocol
   for the induction of neural crest cells in vitro for developing compositions and methods for
   directed differentiation of these cells into melanocytes. These melanocytes were unique in
   their capability for long-term culture and continuous production of eumelanin.
            All publications and patents mentioned in the above specification are herein
15 incorporated by reference. Various modifications and variations of the described method and
   system of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the
    scope and spirit of the invention. Although the invention has been described in connection
   with specific preferred embodiments, it should be understood that the invention as claimed
    should not be unduly limited to such specific embodiments. Indeed, various modifications of
20  the described modes for carrying out the invention that are obvious to those skilled in cellular
   biology, neurobiology, cancer cell biology, molecular biology, biochemistry, chemistry,
    organic synthesis, or related fields are intended to be within the scope of the following
    claims.
                                                     93

   CLAIMS
   1.       A kit comprising a first signaling inhibitor, a second signaling inhibitor and a third
   signaling inhibitor, wherein said first inhibitor is capable of lowering transforming growth
   factor beta (TGFIp)/Activin-Nodal signaling, said second inhibitor is capable of lowering
 5 Small Mothers Against Decapentaplegic (SMAD) signaling and said third inhibitor is capable
   of lowering glycogen synthase kinase 3 P (GSK3 P) for activation of wingless (Wnt) signaling.
   2.       The kit of Claim 1, wherein said first inhibitor is a small molecule selected from the
   group consisting of SB431542, derivatives thereof and mixtures thereof.
10
   3.       The kit of Claim 1, wherein said second inhibitor is a small molecule selected from
   the group consisting of LDN193189, derivatives thereof and mixtures thereof.
   4.       The kit of Claim 1, wherein said third inhibitor is selected from the group consisting
15  of CHIR99021 and derivatives thereof
    5.      The kit of Claim 1, further comprising a fourth inhibitor that lowers fibroblast growth
    factor (FGF) receptor family signaling, wherein said FGF receptor family signaling
    comprises vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) receptors, fibroblast growth factor
20  (FGF) receptors and platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) tyrosine kinase receptors.
    6.       The kit of Claim 5, wherein said fourth inhibitor is selected from the group consisting
    of SU5402 and derivatives thereof.
25  7.       The kit of Claim 1, further comprising a fifth inhibitor capable of lowering Notch
    signaling.
     8.      The kit of Claim 7, wherein said fifth inhibitor is selected from the group consisting
    of N-[N-(3,5-Difluorophenacetyl)-L-alanyl]-S-phenylglycine t-butyl ester (DAPT) and
30   derivatives thereof.
     9.      The kit of Claim 1, further comprising, antibodies used for the detection of expression
     of protein(s) selected from the group consisting of nestin, OCT4, PAX6, TUJI, SOX1O,
                                                     94

   NTRK1, ISL1, POU4F1 (BRN3A), NEUROG2, NEUROGI, MAP2, OTX2, DLK1, DKK1,
   CUZD1, MSX1, ID2, AP2B, ETS1, FOXD3, NGN1, DCX, TUBB3, SYT4, STMN2, INA,
   GAP43, TACI, VGLUT2, SLC15A3, and TRPV1.
 5 10.     The kit of Claim 1, further comprising, PCR primers for the detection of mRNA
   expression of genes selected from the group consisting of nestin, OCT4, PAX6, TUJ 1,
   SOX1O, NTRK1, ISLI, POU4F1 (BRN3A), NEUROG2, NEUROGi, MAP2, OTX2, DLK1,
   DKK1, CUZD1, MSX1, ID2, AP2B, ETS1, FOXD3, NGN1, DCX, TUBB3, SYT4, STMN2,
   INA, GAP43, TAC1, VGLUT2, SLCl5A3, and TRPV1.
10
   11.     The kit of Claim 1, further comprising, antibodies used for the detection of expression
   of protein(s) selected from the group consisting of Protachykinin-l (TAC1), vesicular
   glutamate transporter 2 (VGLUT2) and solute carrier family 15, member 3 (SLC15A3).
15 12.     The kit of Claim 1, further comprising, PCR primers for the detection of mRNA
   expression of genes selected from the group consisting of Protachykinin- 1 (TAC 1), vesicular
   glutamate transporter 2 (VGLUT2) and solute carrier family 15, member 3 (SLC15A3).
    13.    The kit of Claim 1, further comprising, instructions comprising steps for adding the
20 first and second inhibitor two days before adding the third inhibitor.
    14.    The kit of Claim 1, further comprising, instructions comprising steps for making
   neural stem cell precursors and making nociceptor cells.
25  15.     The kit of Claim 1, further comprising a human stem cell.
    16.     The kit of Claim 15, wherein said human stem cell is a human embryonic stem cell.
    17.     The kit of Claim 15, wherein said human stem cell is a human induced pluripotent
30  stem cell.
    18.     The kit of Claim 13, wherein said human stem cell is a transgenic SOX] 0::GFP
    bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) human puripotent stem cell (hPSC).
                                                   95

   19.    A method for inducing directed differentiation of a stem cell, comprising
           a)     providing:
                  i)       a cell culture comprising human stem cells; and
 5                ii)      a first signaling inhibitor, a second signaling inhibitor and a third
                           signaling inhibitor, wherein said first inhibitor is capable of lowering
                           transforming growth factor beta (TGF$)/Activin-Nodal signaling, said
                           second inhibitor is capable of lowering Small Mothers Against
                           Decapentaplegic (SMAD) signaling and said third inhibitor is capable
10 of                      lowering glycogen synthase kinase 3P (GSK3p) for activation of
                           wingless (Wnt) signaling;
           b)      contacting said stem cell with said first and said second inhibitor for up to 48
                   hours in vitro; and
           c)      further contacting said inhibited stem cell with said third inhibitor for up to an
15                 additional 192 hours for inducing directed differentiation of a stem cell,
                   wherein said differentiated stem cell is a neural crest stem cell.
   20.     The method of Claim 19, wherein said first inhibitor is a small molecule selected from
   the group consisting of SB431542, derivatives thereof and mixtures thereof.
20
   21.     The method of Claim 19, wherein said second inhibitor is a small molecule selected
   from the group consisting of LDN193189, derivatives thereof and mixtures thereof.
   22.     The method of Claim 19, wherein said third inhibitor is selected from the group
25 consisting of CHIR99021 and derivatives thereof.
   23.     The method of Claim 19, further comprising a fourth inhibitor that lowers fibroblast
    growth factor (FGF) receptor family signaling, wherein said FGF receptor family signaling
    comprises vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) receptors, fibroblast growth factor
30  (FGF) receptors and platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) tyrosine kinase receptors.
                                                     96

   24.      The method of Claim 23, wherein said fourth inhibitor is selected from the group
   consisting of SU5402 and derivatives thereof.
   25.      The method of Claim 19, further comprising a fifth inhibitor capable of lowering
 5 Notch signaling.
   26.      The method of Claim 25, wherein said fifth inhibitor is selected from the group
   consisting of N-[N-(3,5-Difluorophenacetyl)-L-alanyl]-S-phenylglycine t-butyl ester (DAPT)
   and derivatives thereof.
10
   27.      The method of Claim 19, further comprising a fourth inhibitor and a fifth inhibitor,
   wherein said fourth inhibitor is selected from the group consisting of SU5402 and derivatives
   thereof, wherein said fifth inhibitor is selected from the group consisting of N-[N-(3,5
   Difluorophenacetyl)-L-alanyl]-S-phenylglycine t-butyl ester (DAPT) and derivatives thereof
15 for directed differentiated of a neuronal lineage cell into a peptidergic nociceptor cell.
   28.      The method of Claim 27, wherein said peptidergic nociceptor cell expresses a marker
   selected from the group consistingof OCT4, DLKl, PAX6, SOX1O, POU4F1 (BRN3A),
   ISLI, NEUROG2, NEUROGI, NTRK1, RET, RUNXl, VGLUT2, TACi, and TRPV1.
20
   29.      The method of Claim 27, wherein said peptidergic nociceptor cell expresses a marker
   selected from the group consisting of ISL1, POU4Fl (BRN3A), RET, RUNX1, and NTRK1.
   30.      The method of Claim 27, wherein said marker is selected from the group consisting of
25  a protein and a nucleic acid.
    31.     The method of Claim 27, wherein said peptidergic nociceptor cell co-expresses
    Substance P and Calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP).
30  32.     The method of Claim 27, wherein said peptidergic nociceptor cell produces an action
    potential in response to external stimuli, wherein said external stimuli is an electrical current.
                                                    97

   33.     The method of Claim 27, wherein said differentiated peptidergic nociceptor cell is
   present within a highly enriched populations of neurons within 10-15 days after contacting
   said stem cell with said first and said second inhibitor.
 5 34.     The method of Claim 19, wherein said stem cell is a human embryonic stem cell.
   35.     The method of Claim 19, wherein said stem cell is a human induced pluripotent stem
   cell.
10 36.     A method of screening a biological agent in vitro, comprising,
           a)     providing:
                   i)      a nociceptor cell derived in vitro from directed differentiation of
                           a stem cell; and
                   ii)     a test compound; and
15         b)      contacting said nociceptor cell with said test compound and measuring
                   nociceptor function, wherein said function is measurement of an action
                   potential.
   37.     The method of Claim 36, wherein said nociceptor cell is derived from a human stem
20 cell.
                             Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center
                      Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                      SPRUSON & FERGUSON
                                                    98

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
