ABSTRACT
Provided are methods for treating GLUT1 and related brain energy deficiencies comprising
administering odd-carbon fatty acid sources, e.g., C5 or C7 fatty acid sources, and related
compositions.

        WO 2014/093901                                                         PCT/US2013/075146
             TRIHEPTANOIN FOR THE TREATMENT OF GLUCOSE TRANSPORTER 1 DEFICIENCY
    BACKGROUND
    Technical Field
 5          Embodiments of the present invention relate to methods for treating GLUT1 and
    related brain energy deficiencies comprising administering odd-carbon fatty acid sources,
    e.g., C5 or C7 fatty acid sources, and related compositions.
    Description of the Related Art
 0          GLUT1 deficiency is a rare progressive neurogenetic disorder characterized by
    encephalopathy with progressive intellectual disability, drug-resistant epilepsy, motor
    disorders, and acquired microcephaly.1 4 The clinical spectrum of GLUT1 deficiency
    syndrome includes developmental delay and movement disorders without epilepsy, 4 as well
    as familial and sporadic paroxysmal exercise-induced dyskinesia with or without epilepsy.5
 5  There are varying degrees of cognitive impairment with dysarthria, dysfluency, and
    expressive language deficits that are more severe than receptive language deficits. In most
    patients, the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) to blood glucose ratio is below 0.50, and CSF lactate
    is low to normal. 3 GLUT1 deficiency can be diagnosed by mutation analysis of the SLC2A1
    gene, and deficient GLUT1 function confirmed by analysis of glucose uptake into
 .0 erythrocytes.
            Early diagnosis of GLUT1 deficiency is critical because it allows for treatment with a
    ketogenic diet, a severely restricted diet consisting of 70-90% fat and very low carbohydrate
    diet that mimics the metabolic state of fasting. Ketogenic diets generate ketone bodies as an
    alternative energy source for the brain and can thereby reduce the frequency of seizures and
25  dystonic movements.' 7 Because ketone bodies are not affected by the GLUT1 defect
    (ketone bodies use another transporter to enter the central nervous system), they can supply
    an alternative source of fuel to the brain, effectively correcting the brain energy metabolism
    deficiency.7 However, ketogenic diets are difficult to comply with long-term because of
    certain adverse side effects the extreme dietary choices require. Side effects of ketogenic
30  diets   include   constipation,   low-grade   acidosis,   hypoglycemia,     hyperlipidemia and
    hypercholesterolemia.     Long-term ketogenic diets may cause retarded growth, bone
    fractures, and kidney stones.8
            Accordingly, there remains a need in the art for treating GLUT1 deficiencies and
    similar defects in brain energy metabolism.
35
    BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
                                                    1

        WO 2014/093901                                                       PCT/US2013/075146
             Embodiments of the present invention include methods of treating a GLUT1
    deficiency in a subject in need thereof, comprising administering to the subject an odd-chain
    fatty acid source. In some embodiments, the subject has a disease-associated mutation in at
    least one SLC2A1 gene.
 5           In certain embodiments, the subject has experienced one or more of seizures,
    developmental delay, acquired microcephaly, spasticity, ataxia, or paroxysmal exertion
    induced dyskinesia.
             In particular embodiments, the subject has hypoglycorrhachia without hypoglycemia.
    In specific embodiments, the hypoglycorrhachia is characterized by one or more of
 0  cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) glucose of about or less than about 2.2 mmol/L, CSF lactate of
    about or less than about 1.3 mmol/L, or a ratio of CSF/plasma glucose of about or less than
    about 0.4.
             In some embodiments, the subject is diagnosed with decreased 3-O-methyl-D
    glucose uptake in erythrocytes. In certain embodiments, the subject has cerebral fluoro
 5  deoxy-glucose positron emission tomography (PET) findings characterized by diffuse
    hypometabolism of the cerebral cortex and regional hypometabolism of the cerebellum and
    thalamus.
             In certain embodiments, the odd-chain fatty acid source is administered as a unit
    dosage of about 2-150 grams. In certain embodiments, the subject is an infant and the odd
 .0 chain fatty acid source is administered as a unit dosage of about 1-6 grams/kg. In certain
    embodiments, the subject is a young child, adolescent, or adult and the odd-chain fatty acid
    source is administered as a unit dosage of about 0.5-4 grams/kg. In certain embodiments,
    the odd-chain fatty acid source provides at least about 30-35% of the total calories in the diet
    of the subject. In certain embodiments, the odd-chain fatty acid source is administered at
25  about 1 to about 10 grams/kg/24 hours, about 1 to about 5 grams/kg/24 hours, or about 1 to
    about 2 grams/kg/24 hours.
             In some embodiments, the odd-chain fatty acid source is administered three times a
    day, twice a day, or once per day. In certain embodiments, the odd-chain fatty acid source is
    administered for one month, two months, six months, twelve months, or eighteen months.
30           In certain embodiments, the odd-chain fatty acid source is administered in the
    absence of a ketogenic diet. In some embodiments, the odd-chain fatty acid is administered
    as part of a ketogenic diet.
            Some methods comprise oral administration of the odd-chain fatty acid. In particular
    embodiments, the odd-chain fatty acid is formulated as an oil supplement. In specific
35  embodiments, the odd-chain fatty acid is formulated as a gel capsule.
             In certain embodiments, the odd-chain fatty acid is administered in combination with
    an anti-seizure medication.
                                                   2

        WO 2014/093901                                                         PCT/US2013/075146
             In certain embodiments, the odd-chain fatty acid source comprises triheptanoin or a
    derivative thereof. In specific embodiments, the triheptanoin is ultrapure triheptanoin.
             Also included are methods of determining a treatment regimen for a subject with
    GLUT1 deficiency, as described herein, comprising detecting the level of one or more Krebs
 5  cycle intermediates in the subject treated for a GLUT1 deficiency, and determining a
    treatment regimen based on an increase or decrease in the level of one or more Krebs cycle
    intermediates.
             Also included are methods of monitoring treatment of a subject with GLUT1
    deficiency, as described herein, comprising detecting the level of one or more Krebs cycle
 0  intermediates or derivatives in the subject treated for a GLUT1 deficiency, wherein an
    increase or decrease in the level of one or more Krebs cycle intermediates or derivatives
    compared to a predetermined standard level is predictive of the treatment efficacy of the
    GLUT1 deficiency treatment.
             Also included are methods of determining a treatment regimen for a subject with
 5  GLUT1 deficiency, as described herein, comprising detecting the level of one or more ketone
    bodies in the subject treated for a GLUT1 deficiency and determining a treatment regimen
    based on an increase or decrease in the level of one or more ketone bodies.
             Also included are methods of monitoring treatment of a subject with GLUT1
    deficiency, as described herein, comprising detecting the level of one or more ketone bodies
 .0 in the subject treated for a GLUT1 deficiency, wherein an increase or decrease in the level of
    one or more ketone bodies compared to a predetermined standard level is predictive of the
    treatment efficacy of the GLUT1 deficiency treatment. In some embodiments, the ketone
    bodies are selected from 3-hydroxypentanoate and 3-ketopentanoate.
             In certain embodiments, the one or more Krebs cycle intermediates or the one or
25  more ketone bodies are measured in a biological sample from a subject treated for a GLUT1
    deficiency. In specific embodiments, the biological sample is selected from blood, skin, hair
    follicles, saliva, oral mucous, vaginal mucous, sweat, tears, epithelial tissues, urine, semen,
    seminal fluid, seminal plasma, prostatic fluid, pre-ejaculatory fluid (Cowper's fluid), excreta,
    biopsy, ascites, cerebrospinal fluid, lymph, brain, and tissue extract sample or biopsy
30  sample.
             In some embodiments, the one or more Krebs cycle intermediates or the one or more
    ketone bodies are measured by brain imaging. In some embodiments, the brain imaging is
    selected from computed axial tomography, diffuse optical imaging, event-related optical
    signal, magnetic resonance imaging, functional magnetic resonance imaging, magneto
35  encephalography, positron emission tomography, and single-photon emission computed
    tomography.
                                                   3

        WO 2014/093901                                                             PCT/US2013/075146
            Certain embodiments relate to methods of treating or preventing diseases of the
    brain affecting energy metabolism in a subject, comprising administering to the subject an
    effective amount of triheptanoin,          where the administration      of triheptanoin   restores
    mitochondrial energy function and net biosynthesis through anaplerosis.
 5          Also included are odd-chain fatty acid sources (and related compositions) for use in
    treating a GLUT1 deficiency and optionally a GLUT1 deficiency-associated condition or
    disorder. In certain embodiments, the odd-chain fatty acid source provides a clinically
    effective or statistically significant therapeutic effect in the treatment of the GLUT1 deficiency
    and/or the GLUT1 deficiency-associated condition or disorder. In some embodiments, the
 0  GLUT1 deficiency-associated condition or disorder is seizures, e.g., epileptic seizures. In
    specific embodiments, the odd-chain fatty acid source is triheptanoin or a derivative thereof.
    DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
            Embodiments of the present invention relate to the use of anaplerotic therapies to
 5  treat brain energy deficiencies such as GLUT1 deficiencies. The anaplerotic therapies
    described herein include the administration of odd-chain fatty acid sources such as
    triheptanoin. Odd-chain fatty acid sources supply odd-carbon ketone bodies to the brain
    (e.g., 3-hydroxypentanoate and 3-ketopentanoate)1 2 and replenish substrates of the Krebs
    cycle, including both acetyl-CoA (to replenish energy production) and propionyl-CoA (to
 .0 replenish Krebs cycle intermediates and net biosynthesis)9 . Ketogenic diets, the standard of
    care for such deficiencies, supply food-derived even-carbon ketones to the brain and thereby
    replenish acetyl-CoA for energy production, but do not supply the odd-carbon ketones
    required to replenish propionyl-CoA and net biosynthesis (e.g., for neurotransmitter
    synthesis). Hence, relative to standard therapies for brain energy deficiencies, odd-chain
25  fatty acid-based anaplerotic therapies provide the advantage of improving both brain energy
    production and net biosynthesis without the adverse side effects associated with ketogenic
    diets.
            Definitions
            Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the
30  same meaning as commonly understood by those of ordinary skill in the art to which the
    invention belongs. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those
    described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the present invention, preferred
    methods and materials are described. All publications, patents, and patent applications cited
    herein are incorporated by reference in their entireties.
35          The articles "a" and "an" are used herein to refer to one or more than one (i.e., to at
    least one) of the grammatical object of the article. By way of example, "an element" means
    one element or more than one element.
                                                       4

        WO 2014/093901                                                              PCT/US2013/075146
             By "about" is meant a quantity, level, value, number, frequency, percentage,
    dimension, size, amount, weight or length that varies by as much as 30, 25, 20, 15, 10, 9, 8,
    7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, or 1% to a reference quantity, level, value, number, frequency, percentage,
    dimension, size, amount, weight, length, or other unit described herein. In some aspects, the
 5  term "about" is used to indicate that a value includes the standard deviation of error for the
    device or method being employed to determine the value.
            The terms "anaplerosis" and "anaplerotic" refer to reactions that form intermediates of
    one or more metabolic pathways. Examples include reactions that replenish tricarboxylic
    acid (TCA) cyclic intermediate(s) that have been extracted for biosynthesis, and thereby
 0  restore normal energy metabolism. In some aspects, these terms refer to the formation of
    the TCA cycle intermediates acetyl-CoA and propionyl-CoAlsuccinyl CoA, for example, by
    directly or indirectly providing C5-ketone bodies that are converted to acetyl-CoA and
    propionyl-CoA, the latter being converted to succinyl-CoA. In some instances, heptanoate
    can also be produced by the liver and delivered to the brain to supply the metabolic needs of
 5  glia and neurons (e.g., where the glia convert the heptanoate into other energy intermediates
    to supply the adjacent neurons). Anaplerotic therapies are based on the existence of an
    energy deficit in certain tissues in part because of the lack of sufficient TCA cycle
    intermediates in mitochondria that are otherwise critical for the conversion of food into
    energy and biosynthetic intermediates. Anaplerotic therapies provide alternative substrates
 .0 for the TCA cycle to restore its function and thereby enhance ATP production and net
    biosynthesis in desired tissues, particularly those of the central nervous system. 910
            The terms "clinical-efficacy" and "clinically-effective" refer to a treatment that results
    in a statistically significant therapeutic effect. By "statistically significant" it is meant that the
    result was unlikely to have occurred by chance. Statistical significance can be determined by
25  any method known in the art. Commonly used measures of significance include the p-value,
    which is the frequency or probability with which the observed event would occur, if the null
    hypothesis were true. If the obtained p-value is smaller than the significance level, then the
    null hypothesis is rejected. In simple cases, the significance level is defined at a p-value of
    0.05 or less.
30          Thus, according to some embodiments, administering an odd-chain fatty acid source
    according to the methods of the present invention provides a statistically significant
    therapeutic effect in the treatment of brain energy deficiency such as a GLUT1 deficiency
    and/or a GLUT1 deficiency-associated condition or disorder (e.g., seizures such as epileptic
    seizures). In some embodiments, the statistically significant therapeutic effect is determined
35  based on one or more standards or criteria provided by one or more regulatory agencies in
    the United States, e.g., FDA or other countries. In certain embodiments, the statistically
                                                       5

        WO 2014/093901                                                            PCT/US2013/075146
    significant therapeutic effect is determined based on results obtained from regulatory agency
    approved clinical trial set up and/or procedure.
             In some embodiments, the statistically significant therapeutic effect is determined
    based on a patient population of at least 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 100, 200, 300,
 5  400, 500, 600, 700, 800, 900, 1000 or 2000. In specific embodiments, the statistically
    significant therapeutic effect is determined based on a patient population that is appropriate
    for an orphan drug indication. In some embodiments, the statistically significant therapeutic
    effect is determined based on data obtained from randomized and double-blinded clinical
    trial set-up.    In some embodiments, the statistically significant therapeutic effect is
 0  determined based on data with a p-value of less than or equal to about 0.05, 0.04, 0.03, 0.02
    or 0.01. In some embodiments, the statistically significant therapeutic effect is determined
    based on data with a confidence interval greater than or equal to 95%, 96%, 97%, 98% or
    99%. In some embodiments, the statistically significant therapeutic effect is determined on
    approval of Phase Ill clinical trial of the methods provided by the present invention, e.g., by
 5  FDA in the US.
             In some embodiments, the clinically-effective or statistically significant therapeutic
    effect is determined by a randomized double blind clinical trial of a patient population of at
    least 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 100, 200, 300 or 350, or a patient population
    appropriate for an orphan drug indication, treated with an odd-chain fatty acid source
 .0 optionally in the absence of a ketogenic diet. In some embodiments, the statistically
    significant therapeutic effect is determined by a randomized clinical trial of a patient
    population using, for example, occurrence of seizures (e.g., total number of seizures,
    number      of seizures per unit/time), occurrence          of dystonic   (movements)     or other
    neuurological events described herein,        6-minute walk test, or any combination thereof or
25  any other commonly accepted criteria or endpoints for a GLUT1 deficiency or a GLUT1
    associated disorder or condition.
             In general, statistical analysis can include any suitable method permitted by a
    regulatory agency, e.g., FDA in the US or China or any other country. In some embodiments,
    statistical analysis includes non-stratified analysis, log-rank analysis, e.g., from Kaplan
30  Meier, Jacobson-Truax, Gulliken-Lord-Novick, Edwards-Nunnally, Hageman-Arrindel and
    Hierarchical Linear Modeling (HLM) and Cox regression analysis
             The terms "Krebs cycle," "citric acid cycle (CAC)," and "tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle"
    are used interchangeably to refer to the series of chemical reactions used by aerobic
    organisms to generate energy through the oxidation of acetate (derived from carbohydrates,
35  fats and proteins) into carbon dioxide and adenosine triphosphate (ATP).
             The term "modulating" includes "increasing" or "enhancing," as well as "decreasing"
    or "reducing," typically in a statistically significant or a physiologically significant amount as
                                                       6

       WO 2014/093901                                                                PCT/US2013/075146
    compared to a control. An "increased" or "enhanced" amount is typically a "statistically
    significant" amount, and may include an increase that is about 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 1.7,
    1.8, 1.9, 2.0, 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8, 2.9, 3.0, 3.2, 3.4, 3.6, 3.8, 4.0, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4,
    4.6, 4.8, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15, 20, 30, 40, 50 or more times (e.g., 100, 200, 500, 1000 times)
 5  (including all integers and decimal points and ranges in between and above 1, e.g., 5.5, 5.6,
    5.7. 5.8, etc.) the amount produced by a control (e.g., the absence or lesser amount of a
    compound, a different compound or treatment), or the amount of an earlier time-point (e.g.,
    prior to treatment with a compound). A "decreased" or "reduced" amount is typically a
    "statistically significant" amount, and may include a 1%, 2%, 3%, 4%, 5%, 6%, 7%, 8%, 9%,
 0  10%, 11%, 12%, 13%, 14%, 15%, 16%, 17%, 18%, 19%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 35%, 40%, 45%,
    50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, or 100% decrease (including all
    integers and decimal points and ranges in between) in the amount or activity produced by a
    control (e.g., the absence or lesser amount of a compound, a different compound or
    treatment), or the amount of an earlier time-point (e.g., prior to treatment with a compound).
 5           As used herein, the term "subject" includes a living mammalian organism, such as a
    human, monkey, cow, sheep, goat, dogs, cat, mouse, rat, guinea pig, or transgenic species
    thereof. In certain embodiments, the subject is a primate. Non-limiting examples of human
    subjects or patients include adults, juveniles, infants, and fetuses.
             "Substantially" or "essentially" includes nearly totally or completely, for instance, 80%,
 .0 85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99% or greater of some given quantity.
             A "therapeutically effective amount" or "effective amount" includes an amount of an
    agent of the invention which, when administered to a mammal, preferably a human, is
    sufficient to accomplish a desired or intended result. For example, an "effective amount" of
    an agent, e.g., triheptanoin, administered to a subject for treatment means that amount
25  which is sufficient to effect an improvement in a GLUT1 deficiency and/or a reduction in one
    or more of its associated clinical pathologies (e.g., seizures). The amount of a compound of
    the invention which constitutes a "therapeutically effective amount" will vary depending on
    the compound, the condition and its severity, the manner of administration, and the age of
    the mammal to be treated, but can be determined routinely by one of ordinary skill in the art
30  having regard to his own knowledge and to this disclosure.
             "Treatment" or "treating" includes (1) inhibiting a disease or condition, such as
    GLUT1 deficiency and/or its associated conditions, in a subject experiencing or displaying
    the pathology or symptomatology of the disease or condition (e.g., reducing the pathology or
    symptomatology reducing, further development of the pathology or symptomatology); (2)
35  ameliorating a disease or condition, such as GLUT1 deficiency and/or its associated
    conditions, in a subject that is experiencing or displaying the pathology or symptomatology of
    the disease or condition (e.g., reversing the pathology and/or symptomatology); or (3)
                                                       7

        WO 2014/093901                                                         PCT/US2013/075146
    effecting any measurable decrease in a disease or condition, such as GLUT1 deficiency
    and/or its associated conditions, in a subject that is experiencing or displaying the pathology
    or symptomatology of the disease or condition. For example, triheptanoin and other odd
    carbon fatty acid sources can treat symptoms of GLUT1 deficiency in one or more of the
 5  following non-limiting ways: increased brain energy levels, increased brain anaplerosis,
    increased levels of spinal fluid glucose (e.g., such that the cerebrospinal fluid to blood
    glucose ratio is about 0.50 or above), reduced developmental delay, minimized or reduced
    cognitive impairment, minimized or reduced occurrence of seizures, or minimized or reduced
    occurrence of dystonic movements. Also included are reduced developmental abnormalities
 0  (such as decreased cognitive function, decreased rate of development and acquisition of
    new behaviors, difficulty with language or other complex neurologic skills) and reduced
    movement disorders (e.g., ataxia, chorea, tremors, dysarthria, or myoclonus).
            "Prevention" or "preventing" includes: (1) inhibiting the onset of a disease or
    condition, such as GLUT1 deficiency, in a subject who may be at risk or predisposed to the
 5  disease or condition but does not yet experience or display any or all of the pathology or
    symptomatology of the disease or condition; or (2) slowing or reducing the onset of the
    pathology or symptomatology of a disease or condition, such as a GLUT1 deficiency, in a
    subject which may be at risk or predisposed to the disease or condition but does not yet
    experience or display any or all of the pathology or symptomatology of the disease or
 .0 condition. Non-limiting examples of symptoms of GLUT1 deficiencies are provided herein.
            The term "triheptanoin" refers to a triglyceride of one, two, or three 7-carbon straight
    chain saturated fatty acids. Triheptanoin is considered an anaplerotic compound. The term
    "tripentanoin" refers to a triglyceride of one, two, or three 5-carbon straight-chain saturated
    fatty acids. Odd-carbon fatty acid sources including triheptanoin and tripentanoin can work
25  similarly in allowing both the production of acetyl-CoA to supply the TCA cycle and also the
    propionyl-CoA that gets converted to succinyl-CoA in the anaplerotic process. Other
    examples odd-chain fatty acid sources (e.g., triglycerides, diglycerides, free fatty acids) are
    described herein.
             Methods of Treatment
30           Embodiments of the present invention relate to methods of treating brain energy
    deficiencies (i.e., diseases of the brain affecting energy metabolism) in a subject in need
    thereof, comprising administering to the subject an odd-chain fatty acid source. Such brain
    energy deficiencies typically lead to brain dysfunction because of the inadequate production
    of energy and net biosynthesis intermediates required by glial cells and neurons. Ideally, the
35  odd-chain fatty acid source restores mitochondrial function through anaplerosis, for example,
    by increasing the availability of acetyl-CoA and propionyl-CoA/succinyl-CoA in central
    nervous system tissues such as glial cells and neurons. Examples of brain energy
                                                     8

       WO 2014/093901                                                              PCT/US2013/075146
    deficiencies include but are not limited to GLUT1 deficiencies, epilepsy, epilepsy-like
    disorders, seizure disorders, ictal disorders, postictal disorders, interictal disorders, and
    paroxysmal brain dysfunctions.
             In particular embodiments, the disease is a Glucose transporter 1 (GLUT1)
 5  deficiency or a symptom or condition associated with a GLUT1 deficiency. GLUT1
    deficiencies include, for example, De Vivo disease, GLUT1 deficiency syndrome (GLUT1 DS
    or G1D), and glucose transporter protein syndrome (GTPS). GLUT1 facilitates the transport
    of glucose across the plasma membrane of mammalian cells. It is also referred to as solute
    carrier family 2-facilitated glucose transporter member 1 (SLC2A1). GLUT1 deficiencies are
 0  typically caused by mutations or other defects in the GLUT1 gene, which result in decreased
    glucose transport across the blood-brain barrier. In certain instances, the subject has or has
    been diagnosed as having one or more disease-associated mutations in the GLUT1 gene
    (the SLC2A1 gene). Most patients carry heterozygous de novo mutations in the GLUT1
    gene but autosomal dominant and recessive transmission have also been identified (see
 5  Verrotti et al., Eur J. Paedeatr. Neurol. 16:3-9, 2012).
             GLUT1     and    related   deficiencies     can   be  characterized,     for  example,    by
    hypoglycorrhachia optionally without hypoglycemia. In some instances, hypoglycorrhachia is
    characterized by low cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) glucose, (<2.2 mmol/L), low CSF lactate,
    and/or a lowered CSF/plasma glucose ratio (<0.4). This decrease in glucose transport/levels
 .0 leads to brain energy deficiencies in which the glia are unable to use glucose or to supply
    lactate to neurons. Accordingly, in certain aspects, the subject has a low level of glucose in
    CSF, low levels of lactate in CSF, and/or a lowered CSF/plasma glucose ratio. For instance,
    in some aspects the subject has CSF glucose of about or less than about 2.2, 2.1, 2.0, 1.9,
    1.8, 1.7, 1.6, 1.5, 1.4, 1.3, 1.2, 1.1, 1.0, 0.9, 0.8, 0.7, 0.6, or 0.5 mmol/L (e.g., prior to
25  effective treatment). In some aspects the subject has CSF lactate of about or less than about
    1.3, 1.2 1.1, 1.0, 0.9, 0.8, 0.7, 0.6, or 0.5 mmol/L (e.g., prior to effective treatment). In certain
    aspects the subject has a ratio of CSF/plasma glucose of about or less than about 0.4, 0.35,
    0.3, 0.25, 0.2, 0.15, or 0.1 (e.g., prior to effective treatment).
             In some instances, the subject is diagnosed with decreased 3-O-methyl-D-glucose
30  uptake in erythrocytes. Optionally, the subject has cerebral fluoro-deoxy-glucose positron
    emission tomography (PET) findings characterized by diffuse hypometabolism of the
    cerebral cortex and regional hypometabolism of the cerebellum and thalamus.
             GLUT1 deficiencies associate with conditions such as inadequate brain function,
    seizures,    motor disturbances,       cognitive   impairment,   developmental      delay,  acquired
35  microcephaly, spasticity, ataxia, paroxysmal exertion-induced dyskinesia, and other clinical
    manifestations. Thus, in certain embodiments the subject has a GLUT1 deficiency and a
    GLUT1 deficiency-associated condition or disorder, and the methods comprise treating the
                                                        9

        WO 2014/093901                                                          PCT/US2013/075146
    GLUT1 deficiency, the GLUT1 deficiency-associated condition/disorder, or both. In specific
    embodiments, the GLUT1 deficiency-associated condition/disorder includes seizures and the
    subject has had or is at risk for having seizures. Seizures are episodes of disturbed brain
    function that cause changes in attention or behavior. They are caused by abnormally excited
 5  electrical signals in the brain. In particular embodiments, the subject has had or is at risk for
    having epileptic seizures. By "epilepsy" (also called epileptic seizure disorder) is meant is a
    chronic brain disorder characterized by recurrent, unprovoked seizures. The seizures are
    caused by sudden, usually brief, excessive electrical discharges in neurons. Epileptic attacks
    can lead to loss of awareness, loss of consciousness and/or disturbances of movement,
 0  autonomic function, sensation (including vision, hearing and taste), mood and/or mental
    function. Types of seizures include simple partial, complex partial and generalized seizures,
    such as tonic, clonic, tonic-clonic, absence, Status epilepticus, atonic and myoclonic
    seizures. The methods of the present invention are particularly suited to treatment of
    medically-refractory epilepsy, chronic epilepsy, acute epilepsy or drug resistant epilepsy. In
 5  particular embodiments, the subject has had about or at least about 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or
    10 or more prior seizures, e.g., epileptic seizures. In certain embodiments, administration of
    the odd-chain fatty acid source reduces the frequency or occurrence of seizures in the
    subject by about or at least about 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 100% over a defined
    period of time, for instance, over 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 weeks or more, over 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7,
 .0 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 months or more, or over 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 years or more.
            Anaplerotic therapy using odd-chain           fatty acid sources such      as odd-chain
    triglycerides (e.g., triheptanoin, a 7-carbon triglyceride) can be used to replenish one or more
    substrates of the TCA cycle and thereby correct the energy and net biosynthesis deficits in a
    GLUT1 deficiency. In some aspects, anaplerotic therapy halts or reverses the disease
25  progression and clinical neurological symptoms in patients with GLUT1 deficiency.
            The    terms     "odd-chain" fatty acids     and   "odd-carbon" fatty acids    are   used
    interchangeably to refer to fatty acids (carboxylic acids with an aliphatic tail) that consist of
    an odd number of carbon atoms. The fatty acids can be saturated or unsaturated. Examples
    of odd-chain fatty acids include propionic acid, pentanoic acid, heptanoic acid, nonanoic acid
30  and undecanoic acid. An odd-chain fatty acid "source" refers to a molecule or composition
    that comprises at least one odd-chain fatty acid. Examples include odd-chain free fatty acids,
    triglycerides containing at least one odd-chain fatty acid, diglycerides containing at least one
    odd-chain fatty acid, monoglycerides containing an odd-chain fatty acid, and phospholipids
    containing at least one odd-chain fatty acid, including combinations/mixtures thereof. Also
35  included are derivatives of any of the odd-chain fatty acid-containing molecules described
    herein.
                                                     10

        WO 2014/093901                                                            PCT/US2013/075146
             As noted above, particular examples of odd-chain fatty acid sources include odd
    chain    fatty acid triglycerides (e.g.,    triheptanoin,  tripentanoin), odd-chain     fatty acid
    diglycerides, and odd-chain fatty acid monoglycerides. Thus, in some embodiments, the
    treatment of a GLUT1 deficiency comprises administration of an effective amount of a
 5  triglyceride that comprises at least one odd-chain fatty acid, at least two odd-chain fatty
    acids, or three odd-chain fatty acids. In some embodiments, the treatment of a GLUT1
    deficiency comprises administration of an effective amount of a diglyceride that comprises at
    least one odd-chain fatty acid or at least two odd-chain fatty acids. In some embodiments,
    the treatment of a GLUT1 deficiency comprises administration of an effective amount of a
 0  monoglyceride that comprises an odd-chain fatty acid. The odd-chain triglyceride or
    diglyceride or monoglyceride can contain short, medium, and/or long odd-chain fatty-acids.
              In some embodiments, the odd-chain triglyceride includes 5-carbon triglycerides, 7
    carbon triglycerides, 9-carbon triglycerides, and/or 15-carbon triglycerides. In certain
    embodiments,        the  odd-chain   diglyceride   includes    5-carbon   diglycerides,   7-carbon
 5  diglycerides,     9-carbon   diglycerides,    and/or   15-carbon     diglycerides.   In  particular
    embodiments, the odd-chain monoglyceride includes 5-carbon monoglycerides, 7-carbon
    monoglycerides, 9-carbon triglycerides, and/or 15-carbon monoglycerides. Some methods
    employ triglycerides, diglycerides, and/or monoglycerides of C5 fatty acids, triglycerides of
    C7 fatty acids, and/or triglycerides of C9 fatty acids. Combinations of triglycerides,
 .0 diglycerides, and/or monoglycerides can also be employed. Specific examples include
    mixtures of 7-carbon triglycerides and 5-carbon triglycerides. Also included are derivatives of
    the odd-chain triglycerides described herein.
              In certain embodiments, the odd-chain fatty acid source comprises or consists of
    triheptanoin (glyceryl triheptanoate) or tripentanoin. Also included are salts, prodrugs,
25  analogues, derivatives, substituted, unsaturated, branched forms, and derivatives thereof.
    Triheptanoin is a triglyceride made by the esterification of three n-heptanoic acid molecules
    and glycerol and can be obtained by the esterification of heptanoic acid and glycerol by any
    means known in the art. Triheptanoin is also commercially available through Sasol (Witten,
    Germany) as Special Oil 107, although without limitation thereto. Heptanoic acid is found in
30  various fusel oils in appreciable amounts and can be extracted by any means known in the
    art. It can also be synthesized by oxidation of heptaldehyde with potassium permanganate in
    dilute sulfuric, acid. Heptanoic acid is also commercially available through Sigma Chemical
    Co. (St. Louis, Mo.). In some embodiments, the triheptanoin is ultrapure triheptanoin, as
    described in U.S. provisional application 61/709,080 (incorporated by reference in its
35  entirety). There are no toxic side effects reported with the long-term use of triheptanoin in
    humans.
                                                     11

        WO 2014/093901                                                          PCT/US2013/075146
             Triheptanoin is metabolized in the liver to generate C5-ketone bodies and heptanoate
    as sources of energy for the brain but without the need to induce generalized ketosis (e.g.,
    via a strict diet), and thus exhibits significantly greater safety than other methods of treating
    GLUT1 deficiencies. In addition, since ketone body formation is supplied from medium chain
 5  fatty acids that do not suppress ketone body formation in the liver, the use of triheptanoin
    only requires approximately 25-35% fat calories from triheptanoin which can include
    carbohydrates, rather than the 70-90% calories from fat devoid of carbohydrates required for
    a traditional ketogenic diet.
             After enteral absorption of triheptanoin, most of the heptanoate reaching the liver is
 0  P-oxidized into 1x anaplerotic propionyl-CoA and 2x acetyl-CoA.9 The excess acetyl-CoA
    and propionyl-CoA are channeled to produce C4- and C5-ketone bodies, which are exported
    from the liver to peripheral tissues.9 '1 0 The production of these ketone bodies from dietary
    triheptanoin occurs even when a meal contains carbohydrates. This results because the
    oxidation of heptanoate (a medium chain fatty acid) in liver mitochondria is not regulated by
 5  the carnitine palmitoyltransferase system, the activity of which is otherwise inhibited by
    dietary carbohydrates.9 However, to optimize its anaplerotic effects, triheptanoin should
    represent at least 30 to 35% of the total calories." Otherwise, glucose would be the main
    source of energy supply and the oxidation of triheptanoin could be reduced. The C5-ketone
    bodies (3-hydroxypentanoate and 3-ketopentanoate) cross the blood-brain barrier and
 .0 generate anaplerotic propionyl- and acetyl-CoA for the Krebs cycle in brain tissues.1 2 In
    addition to the C5-ketone bodies, the release of heptanoate occurs after administration (e.g.,
    ingestion) of triheptanoin. Heptanoate can cross the blood brain barrier and be metabolized
    in the glia to generate energy metabolites for the neurons. Given its odd-chain length, it can
    also create anaplerotic intermediates and restore TCA cycle function in the brain.
25           In some embodiments, the odd-chain fatty acid source is administered instead of or
    in the absence of a ketogenic diet (or a substantially ketogenic diet). That is, in some
    instances, the subject is not on a ketogenic diet or as has failed to follow a ketogenic diet.
    Failure to follow a ketogenic diet can include instances where the subject is unable to
    maintain the strict food choices or is medically unable to stay on a ketogenic diet because of
30  side effects or issues with other medications and/or disorders. By "absence of a ketogenic
    diet" is meant a dietary intake which does not have a higher than normal fat content
    compared to carbohydrate and protein. In some embodiments, an "absence of a ketogenic
    diet" is a diet is which the ratio by weight of fat to combined protein and carbohydrate is less
    than 3:1, and may be 2:1, 1:1, 0.5:1 or a ratio where the fat content is even lower, or where
35  fat is absent.
             In any of the treatment methods described herein, the combination of C5-ketone
    bodies, heptanoate, and/or the intermediary metabolism of the brain in glia or neurons may
                                                      12

        WO 2014/093901                                                           PCT/US2013/075146
    be involved in replacing the energy deficiency state that leads to defects in brain energy
    metabolism, including GLUT1 -deficiency and its associated symptoms/pathologies.
             Certain embodiments therefore include the use of odd-chain fatty acid sources (e.g.,
    triheptanoin and related compositions) as dietery supplements or neutraceuticals, for
 5  example, to improve or support brain energy, improve or support brain metabolism, improve
    or support improve brain function, or improve or support nervous system (e.g., CNS) energy,
    metabolism or function.
             Administration and Dosages
             Administration of the odd-chain fatty acid sources in pure form or in an appropriate
 0  pharmaceutical composition can be carried out via any of the accepted modes of
    administration of agents for serving similar utilities. Typical routes of administering an odd
    chain fatty acid source or a composition comprising the same include, without limitation, oral,
    topical, transdermal, inhalation, parenteral, sublingual, buccal, rectal, vaginal, and intranasal
    routes. The term parenteral as used herein includes subcutaneous injections, intravenous,
 5  intramuscular, intrasternal injection or infusion techniques. In specific embodiments, the odd
    chain fatty acid source is administered or ingested orally.
             An odd-chain fatty acid source or related composition may be in the form of a solid or
    liquid. In one aspect, the carrier(s) are particulate, so that the compositions are, for example,
    in tablet or powder form. The carrier(s) may be liquid, with the compositions being, for
 .0 example, an oral oil, an oral syrup, or an injectable liquid. In specific embodiments, the
    composition is a oil supplement of triheptanoin or a derivative thereof.
             When intended for oral administration, the pharmaceutical composition is preferably
    in either solid (e.g., powder) or liquid form, where semi-solid, semi-liquid, suspension, and
    gel forms are included within the forms considered herein as either solid or liquid.
25           As a solid composition for oral administration, the pharmaceutical composition may
    be formulated into a powder, granule, compressed tablet, pill, capsule, chewing gum, wafer
    or the like form. Such a solid composition will typically contain one or more inert diluents or
    edible carriers. In addition, one or more of the following may be present: binders such as
    carboxymethylcellulose, ethyl cellulose, microcrystalline cellulose, gum tragacanth or gelatin;
30  excipients such as starch, lactose or dextrins, disintegrating agents such as alginic acid,
    sodium alginate, Primogel, corn starch and the like; lubricants such as magnesium stearate
    or Sterotex; glidants such as colloidal silicon dioxide; sweetening agents such as sucrose or
    saccharin; a flavoring agent such as peppermint, methyl salicylate or orange flavoring; and a
    coloring agent. When the pharmaceutical composition is in the form of a capsule, for
35  example, a gelatin capsule, it may contain, in addition to materials of the above type, a liquid
    carrier such as polyethylene glycol or oil.
                                                     13

        WO 2014/093901                                                          PCT/US2013/075146
              The pharmaceutical composition may be in the form of a liquid, for example, an oil,
    elixir, syrup, solution, emulsion, or suspension. The liquid may be for oral administration or
    for delivery by injection. When intended for oral administration, a composition may contain,
    in addition to the odd-chain fatty acid(s), one or more of sweetening agents, preservatives,
 5  dye/colorants and flavor enhancers. In a composition intended to be administered by
    injection, one or more of a surfactant, preservative, wetting agent, dispersing agent,
    suspending agent, buffer, stabilizer and isotonic agent may be included.
              The liquid pharmaceutical compositions of the invention, whether they be solutions,
    suspensions or other like form, may include one or more of the following adjuvants: sterile
 0  diluents such as water for injection, saline solution, preferably physiological saline, Ringer's
    solution, isotonic sodium chloride, fixed oils such as synthetic mono or diglycerides which
    may serve as the solvent or suspending medium, polyethylene glycols, glycerin, propylene
    glycol or other solvents; antibacterial agents such as benzyl alcohol or methyl paraben;
    antioxidants such as ascorbic acid or sodium             bisulfite; chelating agents such as
 5  ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid; buffers such as acetates, citrates or phosphates and agents
    for the adjustment of tonicity such as sodium chloride or dextrose.
              Certain compositions may be intended for rectal administration, in the form, for
    example, of a suppository, which will melt in the rectum and release the odd-chain fatty acid
    source. The composition for rectal administration may contain an oleaginous base as a
 .0 suitable non-irritating excipient. Such bases include, without limitation, lanolin, cocoa butter
    and polyethylene glycol.
              Odd-chain fatty acid sources and related compositions are formulated so as to allow
    the active ingredients contained therein to be bioavailable upon administration of the
    composition to a subject. Compositions that will be administered to a subject or patient
25  usually take the form of one or more dosage units, where for example, a tablet or capsule
    (e.g., gel capsule) may be a single dosage unit, and a container may hold a plurality of
    dosage units. Actual methods of preparing such dosage forms are known, or will be
    apparent, to those skilled in this art; for example, see Remington: The Science and Practice
    of Pharmacy, 20th Edition (Philadelphia College of Pharmacy and Science, 2000). In certain
30  aspects, the composition to be administered contains a therapeutically effective amount of
    an odd-chain fatty acid source, for treatment of a disease or condition of interest.
              In some embodiments, a unit dosage comprises about or at least about 2g to about
    150g, or about 2g, 3g, 4g, 5g, 10g, 15g, 20g, 25g, 30g, 35g, 40g, 45g, 50g, 55g, 60g, 65g,
    70g, 75g, 80g, 90g, 95g, 100g, 125g or 150g, or more of an odd-chain fatty acid source
35  (e.g., triheptanoin).
                                                    14

       WO 2014/093901                                                          PCT/US2013/075146
            The frequency of administration of the compositions described herein may vary from
   once-a-day (QD) to twice-a-day (BID) or thrice-a-day (TID), etc., the precise frequency of
   administration varying with, for example, the patient's condition, the dosage, etc
            Table 1 below provides energy conversion values useful for calculating dosages
 5 suitable for methods provided herein. Additional information can also be found in Gidding et
   al. (Dietary Recommendations for Children and Adolescents: A Guide for Practitioners,
   Pediatrics, 117:544-559 (2006); incorporated herein by reference in its entirety).
                                     Table 1: Energy Conversion Values
                                 Table 1: Energy Conversion Values
              Energy Density                                  kJ/g           kCal/g
              Fat                                             37             9
              Ethanol (drinking alcohol)                      29             7
              Proteins                                        17             4
              Carbohydrates                                   17             4
              Organic acids                                   13             3
              Polyols (sugar alcohols, sweeteners)            10             2.4
              Fiber                                           8              2
 0          In certain embodiments a dosage is calculated by the weight of the subject.
   According to the World Health Organization (WHO), boys from birth to 5 years of age range
   in mass from approximately 2 kg to 30 kg. Boys of 5 years to 10 years of age range in mass
   from approximately 10 kg to 50 kg. Girls from birth to 5 years of age range in mass from
   approximately 2 kg to 30kg. Girls of 5 years to 10 years of age range in mass from
 5 approximately 10 kg to 52 kg. See, for example, the WHO Growth Standards, hereby
   incorporated by reference.
            In certain embodiments, the dosage of the odd-chain fatty acid source, e.g., C7
   carbon source such as triheptanoin, is from about 2-4 grams/kg for infants, 1-2 grams/kg for
   young children (e.g., prepubescent or pubescent), or about 1 gram/kg for adolescents (e.g.,
20 post-pubescent) and adults. In specific embodiments, the dosage ranges from about 1-6, 1
   2, 2-3, 3-4, 4-5, or 5-6 grams/kg for infants, 0.5-4, 0.5-1, 1-1.5, 1.5-2, 2-2.5, 2.5-3, 3-3.5, or
   3.5-4 grams/kg for young children, or about 0.5-4, 0.5-1, 1-1.5, 1.5-2, 2-2.5, 2.5-3, 3-3.5, or
   3.5-4 grams/kg for adolescents and adults.
            In some embodiments, the unit dosage is the desired daily dosage (e.g., grams/kg)
25 multiplied by the average weight of the subject group, and optionally divided by times per
   day for administration. For example, in some embodiments, the unit dosage for infants is 2-4
   grams/kg multiplied by an average infant's weight, and optionally divided by one, two, three,
   four, five or six for daily administration. In particular embodiments, the unit dosage for young
   children through school age is 1-2 grams/kg multiplied by an average young child's weight,
30 and optionally divided by one, two, three, four, five or six for daily administrations. In some
                                                     15

        WO 2014/093901                                                           PCT/US2013/075146
    embodiments, the unit dosage for adolescents and adults is about 1 grams/kg multiplied by
    an average adolescent's or adult's weight, and optionally divided by one, two, three, or four
    for daily administration. In some embodiments the unit dosage volume is in milliliters or liters.
             In some embodiments, the odd-chain fatty acid source (e.g., triheptanoin) is provided
 5  in solution and/or oil from between about 0.25 g/mL (i.e., 0.25 g per cc) to about 2 g/mL (i.e.,
    0.25 g per cc). In certain embodiments, the odd-chain fatty acid source (e.g., triheptanoin) is
    provided (e.g., in solution and/or oil) at about 0.25 g/mL, 0.5 g/mL, 0.75 g/mL, 1g/mL, 1.25
    g/mL, 1.5 g/mL, 1.75 g/ml or 2 g/mL.
             In some embodiments, the odd-chain fatty acid source (e.g., triheptanoin) is
 0  administered at about 1 to about 10 grams/kg/24 hours, about 1 to about 5 grams/kg/24
    hours or about 1 to about 2 grams/kg/24 hours. In some embodiments, the odd-chain fatty
    acid source (e.g., triheptanoin) is administered at about 2-4 grams/kg/24 hours for infants. In
    some embodiments, the odd-chain fatty acid source (e.g., triheptanoin) is administered at
    about 2, 3 or 4 grams/kg/24 hours for infants. In certain embodiments, the odd-chain fatty
 5  acid source (e.g., triheptanoin) is administered at about 1-2 grams/kg/24 hours for children
    through school age. In some embodiments, the odd-chain fatty acid source (e.g.,
    triheptanoin) is administered at about 1 or 2 grams/kg/24 hours for children through school
    age. In some embodiments the odd-chain fatty acid source (e.g.,                   triheptanoin) is
    administered at about 1 gram/kg/24 hours for adolescents and adults.
 .0          Based on the suitable dosage, the odd-chain fatty acid source (e.g., triheptanoin) can
    be provided in various suitable unit dosages. For example, an odd-chain fatty acid source
    can comprise a unit dosage for administration one or multiple times per day, for 1-7 days per
    week. Such unit dosages can be provided as a set for daily, weekly and/or monthly
    administration.
25           In some embodiments, the odd-chain fatty acid source (e.g., triheptanoin) is
    administered about six times a day, about five times a day, about four times a day, about
    three times a day, about twice a day, or about once per day.
             In certain embodiments, the daily dosage is divided into 1 to 6 daily dosages, 1 to 5
    daily dosages, or 1 to 4 daily dosages. In some embodiments, the daily dosage is divided
30  into 1 to 4 daily doses, 1 to 5 daily doses, or 1 to 6 daily doses of 2, 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35,
    40 or 50 cc. In some embodiments, the daily dosage is divided into 4 daily doses of 15 cc to
    20 cc for an adult. In specific embodiments, the odd-chain fatty acid source (e.g.,
    triheptanoin) is provided in 1g/mL and the daily dosage of 1g/kg/day is divided into 4 daily
    dosages.
35           In some embodiments, the odd-chain fatty acid source (e.g., triheptanoin) is
    administered for one week, two weeks, one month, two months, six months, twelve months
    or eighteen months.
                                                    16

        WO 2014/093901                                                         PCT/US2013/075146
             In some embodiments, the odd-chain fatty acid source (e.g., triheptanoin) is
    administered as part of a dosing regimen so as to maintain a constant level of the odd-chain
    fatty acid source in the subject. In some embodiments, the odd-chain fatty acid source can
    be administered multiple times per day so as to maintain a constant level in the blood.
 5           In some embodiments, the dosage of the odd-chain fatty acid source (e.g.,
    triheptanoin) provides at least about 10% to about 50%, at least about 20% to about 40%, at
    least about 25% to about 35%, or at least about 30% to about 35% of the total calories in the
    diet of said subject. In some embodiments, the odd-chain fatty acid source provides at least
    about 25-35% of the calories in the diet of infants and/or young children.
 0          Odd-chain fatty acid sources may also be administered simultaneously with, prior to,
    or after administration of one or more other therapeutic or biologically active agents, dietary
    supplements, or any combination thereof. Such combination therapies include administration
    of a single pharmaceutical dosage formulation which contains an odd-chain fatty acid source
    and one or more additional active agents, as well as administration of the odd-chain fatty
 5  acid source and each active agent in its own separate pharmaceutical dosage formulation.
    For example, an odd-chain fatty acid source and the other active agent can be administered
    to the patient together in a single oral dosage formulation such as a tablet, capsule (e.g., gel
    capsule), syrup, or oil, or each agent administered in separate oral dosage formulations.
    Where separate dosage formulations are used, the odd-chain fatty acid source and one or
 .0 more additional active agents can be administered at essentially the same time, i.e.,
    concurrently, or at separately staggered times, i.e., sequentially. Combination therapy is
    understood to include all these regimens.
             In some embodiments, the odd-chain fatty acid source (e.g., triheptanoin) is
    administered in combination with a ketogenic diet, a partial ketogenic diet, or a C4 ketogenic
25  diet. By "ketogenic diet" is meant a high fat and low carbohydrate and protein diet. Typically,
    a ketogenic diet contains a 3:1 to 4:1 ratio by weight of fat to combined protein and
    carbohydrate. A ketogenic diet may refer to a classical ketogenic diet comprising
    predominantly natural fats (inclusive of normal dietary fats and suitably long-chain
    triglycerides) or a ketogenic diet comprising predominantly medium chain triglycerides and
30  suitably, even medium chain triglycerides. By "C4 ketogenic diet" is meant a high fat and low
    carbohydrate and protein diet. Typically, a C4 ketogenic diet contains a 3:1 to 4:1 ratio by
    weight of even chain fat to combined protein and carbohydrate. A C4 ketogenic diet
    increases the C4 ketones, p-hydroxybutyrate and acetoacetate, but not C5 ketones. A C4
    ketogenic diet may refer to a classical ketogenic diet comprising predominantly natural fats
35  (inclusive of normal dietary fats and suitably long-chain triglycerides) or a ketogenic diet
    comprising predominantly medium chain triglycerides and suitably, even medium chain
    triglycerides, mostly C8 and C10 oil(s). In these and related embodiments, the odd-chain
                                                   17

        WO 2014/093901                                                          PCT/US2013/075146
    fatty acid source can be substituted for about 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 35%, 40%,
    45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90% or 95% of the calories or amount of
    the fat portion of the full or partial ketogenic diet.
             In some embodiments, the odd-chain fatty acid source (e.g., triheptanoin) is
 5  combined with or administered in combination with a food entity. Food entities include for
    example yogurt, sauces, shakes, or any other food with which the odd-chain fatty acid
    source can be combined. In some embodiments, the odd-chain fatty acid source is
    combined with an emulsifying component. In some embodiments, the food component
    comprises an emulsifying component.
 0           In some embodiments, odd-chain fatty acid source (e.g., triheptanoin) is administered
    in combination with an anti-seizure drug. Also included are pharmaceutical compositions that
    comprise an odd-chain fatty acid source and an anti-seizure drug. Examples of anti-seizure
    drugs include but are not limited to Acetazolamide, Banzel, Barbexaclone, Beclamide,
    Brivaracetam, Carbamate, carbamazepine (Tegretol), Carbatrol, Carboxamide, Cerebyx,
 5  Clobazam, clonazepam (Klonopin), Clorazepate, Depakene, Depakote, Depakote ER,
    Depakote Sprinkles, Diamox,            Diamox Sequels,    Diastat,  Diazepam,   Dilantin,   Epitol,
    Eslicarbazepine acetate, Ethadione, Ethosuximide,            Ethotoin, Ezogabine, Felbamate,
    Felbatol, Fosphenytoin,       Frisium, Fycompa, gabapentin (Neurontin), Gabitril, Inovelon,
    Keppra, Keppra XR , Klonopin, lacosamide (Vimpat), Lamictal, lamotrigine (Lamictal),
 .0 lamotrigine (Lamictal), lamotrigine (Lamictal), levetiracetam (Keppra), Lorazepam, Luminal,
    Lyrica,    M   phenytoin,    Mesuximide,     Methazolamide,   Methylphenobarbital,    Midazolam,
    Mysoline,     Neurontin,    nimetazepam,     Onfi,   Oxcarbazepine,   oxcarbazepine    (Trileptal),
    Paraldehyde, Paramethadione, Perampanel, Phenacemide, Pheneturide, Phenobarbital,
    Phensuximide, Phenytek, phenytoin (Dilantin), Phenytoin Sodium, Potassium bromide,
25  Potiga, pregabalin (Lyrica), Primidone, rufinamide (Banzel), Sabril, Seletracetam, Stiripentol,
    Sultiame, Tegretol , Tegretol XR, temazepam, Tiagabine, topiramate (Topamax), Trileptal,
    Trileptal, Trileptal, Trimethadione, Trimethadione, Trimethadione, valproic acid (Depakote),
    Valpromide, Valnoctamide, vigabatrin (Sabril), vigabatrin (Sabril), Vimpat, Zarontin, or
    zonisamide (Zonegran). In certain of these and related embodiments, the subject has a
30  GLUT1 deficiency and is at risk for having seizures, or has had at least 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8,
    9, or 10 or more prior seizures. In certain embodiments, administration of the odd-chain fatty
    acid source in combination with the anti-seizure drug reduces the frequency or occurrence of
    seizures in the subject by about or at least about 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 100%
    over a defined period of time, for instance, over 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 weeks or more, over 1,
35  2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 months or more, or over 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 years or
    more.
             Monitoring Treatment
                                                       18

        WO 2014/093901                                                          PCT/US2013/075146
             Certain embodiments include methods for monitoring and/or predicting the treatment
    efficacy of a GLUT1 deficiency treatment as described herein. Such methods include
    detecting the level of one or more Krebs cycle intermediates or their derivatives in a subject
    (or in a biological sample from the subject) treated for a GLUT1 deficiency, wherein an
 5  increase or decrease in the level of one or more Krebs cycle intermediates or their
    derivatives compared to a predetermined standard level indicates or is predictive of the
    treatment efficacy of the GLUT1 deficiency treatment.
            Also included are methods for determining the treatment regimen for treating a
    GLUT1 deficiency as described herein. Such methods include detecting the level of one or
 0  more Krebs cycle intermediates or their derivatives in a subject (or in a biological sample
    from the subject) treated for a GLUT1 deficiency and determining a treatment regimen based
    on an increase or decrease in the level of the one or more Krebs cycle intermediates.
             Examples of Krebs cycle intermediates include acetyl-CoA, propionyl-CoA, and
    succinyl-CoA, including precursors and derivatives thereof.
 5          Some embodiments include methods for monitoring and/or predicting the treatment
    efficacy of a GLUT1 deficiency treatment as described herein, comprising detecting the level
    of one or more ketone bodies in subject (or in a biological sample from the subject) treated
    for a GLUT1 deficiency, wherein an increase or decrease in the level of one or more ketone
    bodies compared to a predetermined standard level indicates or is predictive of the
 .0 treatment efficacy of the GLUT1 deficiency treatment.
            Also included are methods for determining the treatment regimen for treating a
    GLUT1 deficiency as described herein. Such methods include detecting the level of one or
    more ketone bodies in a subject (or in a biological sample from the subject) treated for a
    GLUT1 deficiency and determining a treatment regimen based on an increase or decrease
25  in the level of one or more ketone bodies.
             Examples of ketone bodies include but are not limited to beta-hydroxypentanoic acid
    (BHP), beta-ketopentanoic acid (BKP), 3-hydroxypentanoate, and 3-ketopentanoate.
            The levels of one or more Krebs cycle intermediates or their derivatives or one or
    more ketone bodies can be measured or determined using any of a variety of methods
30  known to those of skill in the art.
             For example, in some embodiments, the one or more Krebs cycle intermediates
    and/or ketone bodies or their derivatives are measured in a biological sample (obtained)
    from a subject treated for a GLUT1 deficiency. In some embodiments, the biological sample
    is selected from blood, skin, hair follicles, saliva, oral mucous, vaginal mucous, sweat, tears,
35  epithelial tissues, urine, semen, seminal fluid, seminal plasma, prostatic fluid, pre-ejaculatory
    fluid (Cowper's fluid), excreta, biopsy, ascites, cerebrospinal fluid, lymph, brain, and tissue
                                                      19

        WO 2014/093901                                                         PCT/US2013/075146
    extract sample or biopsy sample. In specific embodiments, C5 levels are measured in the
    blood and/or urine.
            In some embodiments, the one or more Krebs cycle intermediates and/or ketone
    bodies or their derivatives are measured in the brain of the subject. For example, in some
 5  embodiments, the one or more Krebs cycle intermediates and/or ketone bodies or their
    derivatives are measured by brain imaging. In some embodiments, the brain imaging
    includes but is not limited to computed axial tomography, diffuse optical imaging, event
    related optical signal, magnetic resonance imaging, NMR spectroscopy, functional magnetic
    resonance     imaging,     magneto     encephalography,      positron   emission  tomography,
 0  electroencephalography, near infrared spectroscopy, and single-photon emission computed
    tomography.
            Additionally, the levels of the one or more Krebs cycle intermediates and/or ketone
    bodies or their derivatives can be determined in order to generate a composite of the level of
    the Krebs cycle intermediates and/or ketone bodies. Certain methods include determining a
 5  composite level of a panel of selected Krebs cycle intermediates and/or ketone bodies. The
    composite can include but is not limited to any of the Krebs cycle intermediates or ketone
    bodies described herein. In specific embodiments, C5 ketone body level information is
    included as part of the composite.
            References:
 .0 1.      Seidner G, Alvarez MG, Yeh JI, et al. GLUT-1 deficiency syndrome caused by
    haploinsufficiency of the blood-brain barrier hexose carrier. Nat Genet 1998;18:188-91.
    2.      Striano P, Weber YG, Toliat MR, et al. GLUT1 mutations are a rare cause of familial
    idiopathic generalized epilepsy. Neurology 2012;78:557-62.
    3.      Wang D, Pascual JM, Yang H, et al. Glut-1 deficiency syndrome: clinical, genetic,
25  and therapeutic aspects. Ann Neurol 2005;57:111-8.
    4.      Brockmann K. The expanding phenotype of GLUT1-deficiency syndrome. Brain Dev
    2009;31:545-52.
    5.      Schneider SA, Paisan-Ruiz C, Garcia-Gorostiaga I, et al. GLUT1 gene mutations
    cause sporadic paroxysmal exercise-induced dyskinesias. Mov Disord 2009;24:1684-8.
30  6.      Graham JM, Jr. GLUT1 deficiency syndrome as a cause of encephalopathy that
    includes cognitive disability, treatment-resistant infantile epilepsy and a complex movement
    disorder. Eur J Med Genet 2011.
    7.      Klepper J, Leiendecker B. GLUT1 deficiency syndrome--2007 update. Dev Med Child
    Neurol 2007;49:707-16.
35  8.      Freeman JM, Kossoff EH. Ketosis and the ketogenic diet, 2010: advances in treating
    epilepsy and other disorders. Adv Pediatr 2010;57:315-29.
                                                    20

        WO 2014/093901                                                           PCT/US2013/075146
    9.        Brunengraber H, Roe CR. Anaplerotic molecules: current and future. J Inherit Metab
    Dis 2006;29:327-31.
    10.       Roe CR, Mochel F. Anaplerotic diet therapy in inherited metabolic disease:
    therapeutic potential. J Inherit Metab Dis 2006;29:332-40.
 5  11.       Roe CR, Sweetman         L, Roe DS,        David  F, Brunengraber     H. Treatment     of
    cardiomyopathy and rhabdomyolysis in long-chain fat oxidation disorders                  using an
    anaplerotic odd-chain triglyceride. J Clin Invest 2002; 110:259-69.
    12.       Mochel F, DeLonlay P, Touati G, et al. Pyruvate carboxylase deficiency: clinical and
    biochemical response to anaplerotic diet therapy. Mol Genet Metab 2005;84:305-12.
 0  13.       Roe CR, Yang BZ, Brunengraber H, Roe DS, Wallace M, Garritson BK. Carnitine
    palmitoyltransferase    ||  deficiency:    successful     anaplerotic  diet  therapy.    Neurology
    2008;71:260-4.
    14.       Mochel F et al. Dietary anaplerotic therapy improves peripheral tissue energy
    metabolism in patients with Huntington's disease. Eur J Hum Genet 2010; 18:1057-60.
 5
             Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail by way of
    illustration and example for purposes of clarity of understanding, it will be readily apparent to
    one of ordinary skill in the art in light of the teachings of this invention that certain changes
    and modifications may be made thereto without departing from the spirit or scope of the
 .0 appended claims. The following examples are provided by way of illustration only and not by
    way of limitation. Those of skill in the art will readily recognize a variety of non-critical
    parameters that could be changed or modified to yield essentially similar results.
    EXAMPLES
25                                               EXAMPLE 1
             Subjects exhibiting GLUT1 deficiency and associated clinical symptoms are treated
    with triheptanoin. Subjects are administered triheptanoin with each meal at a dosage
    sufficient to account for about 30-35% of the subject's caloric intake with or without other
    anti-epileptic drugs. The subjects' seizure frequency is reduced and their neurologic and
30  movement disorder is improved due to the restoration of brain energy metabolism and net
    biosynthesis.
                                                      21

        WO 2014/093901                                                         PCT/US2013/075146
    CLAIMS:
             1.     A method of treating a GLUT1 deficiency in a human subject in need thereof,
    comprising administering to the subject an odd-chain fatty acid source.
             2.     The method of claim 1, where the subject has a disease-associated mutation
 5  in at least one SLC2A1 gene.
             3.     The method of claim 2, where the subject has experienced one or more
    GLUT1 deficiency-associated conditions selected from seizures, dystonic movements,
    developmental delay, acquired microcephaly, spasticity, ataxia, and paroxysmal exertion
    induced dyskinesia.
 0           4.     The method of any of the preceding claims, where the subject has
    hypoglycorrhachia without hypoglycemia.
             5.     The method of claim 4, where the hypoglycorrhachia is characterized by one
    or more of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) glucose of about or less than about 2.2 mmol/L, CSF
    lactate of about or less than about 1.3 mmol/L, or a ratio of CSF/plasma glucose of about or
 5  less than about 0.4.
             6.     The method of any of claims 1-5, where the subject is diagnosed with
    decreased 3-0-methyl-D-glucose uptake in erythrocytes.
             7.     The method of any of claims 1-6, where the subject has cerebral fluoro
    deoxy-glucose positron emission tomography (PET) findings characterized by diffuse
 .0 hypometabolism of the cerebral cortex and regional hypometabolism of the cerebellum and
    thalamus.
             8.     The method of any of the preceding claims, where the odd-chain fatty acid
    source is administered as a unit dosage of about 2-150 grams.
             9.     The method of any of claims 1-7, where the subject is an infant and the odd
25  chain fatty acid source is administered as a unit dosage of about 1-6 grams/kg.
             10.    The method of any of claims 1-7, where the subject is a young child,
    adolescent, or adult and the odd-chain fatty acid source is administered as a unit dosage of
    about 0.5-4 grams/kg.
             11.    The method of any of the proceeding claims, where the odd-chain fatty acid
30  source provides at least about 30-35% of the total calories in the diet of the subject.
                                                  22

       WO 2014/093901                                                        PCT/US2013/075146
            12.     The method of any of the preceding claims, where the odd-chain fatty acid
    source is administered at about 1 to about 10 grams/kg/24 hours, about 1 to about 5
    grams/kg/24 hours, or about 1 to about 2 grams/kg/24 hours.
            13.     The method of any of the preceding claims, where the odd-chain fatty acid
 5  source is administered three times a day, twice a day, or once per day.
            14.     The method of any of the preceding claims, where the odd-chain fatty acid
    source is administered for one month, two months, six months, twelve months, or eighteen
    months.
            15.     The method of any of the previous claims, where the odd-chain fatty acid
 0  source is administered in the absence of a ketogenic diet.
            16.     The method of any of claims 1-14, where the odd-chain fatty acid is
    administered as part of a ketogenic diet.
            17.     The method of any of the preceding claims, comprising oral administration of
    the odd-chain fatty acid.
 5          18.     The method of claim 17, where the odd-chain fatty acid is formulated with
    food, optionally as an oil supplement or powder supplement.
            19.     The method of claim 17 or 18, where the odd-chain fatty acid is formulated as
    an oil supplement.
            20.     The method of claim 17, where the odd-chain fatty acid is formulated as a gel
 .0 capsule.
            21.     The method of any of the previous claims, where the odd-chain fatty acid is
    administered in combination with an anti-seizure medication.
            22.     The method of any of the preceding claims, where the odd-chain fatty acid
    source comprises triheptanoin or a derivative thereof.
25          23.     The method of claim 22, where the triheptanoin is ultrapure triheptanoin.
            24.     The method of any of the preceding claims, where the administration provides
    a statistically significant therapeutic effect for the treatment of a GLUT1 deficiency and
    optionally a GLUT1 deficiency-associated disorder or condition.
            25.     The method of any of the preceding claims, comprising detecting the level of
30  one or more Krebs cycle intermediates in the subject treated for a GLUT1 deficiency, and
                                                    23

        WO 2014/093901                                                           PCT/US2013/075146
    determining a treatment regimen based on an increase or decrease in the level of one or
    more Krebs cycle intermediates.
             26.     The method of any of the preceding claims, comprising detecting the level of
    one or more Krebs cycle intermediates or derivatives in the subject treated for a GLUT1
 5  deficiency, wherein an increase or decrease in the level of one or more Krebs cycle
    intermediates or derivatives compared to a predetermined standard level is predictive of the
    treatment efficacy of the GLUT1 deficiency treatment.
             27.     The method of any of the preceding claims, comprising detecting the level of
    one or more ketone bodies in the subject treated for a GLUT1 deficiency and determining a
 0  treatment regimen based on an increase or decrease in the level of one or more ketone
    bodies.
             28.     The method of any of the preceding claims, comprising detecting the level of
    one or more ketone bodies in the subject treated for a GLUT1 deficiency, wherein an
    increase or decrease in the level of one or more ketone bodies compared to a
 5  predetermined standard level is predictive of the treatment efficacy of the GLUT1 deficiency
    treatment.
             29.     The method of claims 27 or 28, where the ketone bodies are selected from 3
    hydroxypentanoate and 3-ketopentanoate.
             30.     The method of any of claims 25-29, where the one or more Krebs cycle
 .0 intermediates or the one or more ketone bodies are measured in a biological sample from a
    subject treated for a GLUT1 deficiency.
             31.     The method of claim 30, where the biological sample is selected from blood,
    skin, hair follicles, saliva, oral mucous, vaginal mucous, sweat, tears, epithelial tissues,
    urine, semen, seminal fluid, seminal plasma, prostatic fluid, pre-ejaculatory fluid (Cowper's
25  fluid), excreta, biopsy, ascites, cerebrospinal fluid, lymph, brain, and tissue extract sample or
    biopsy sample.
             32.     The method of any claims 25-29, where the one or more Krebs cycle
    intermediates or the one or more ketone bodies are measured by brain imaging.
             33.     The method of claim 32, where the brain imaging is selected from computed
30  axial tomography, diffuse optical imaging, event-related optical signal, magnetic resonance
    imaging, functional magnetic resonance imaging, magneto encephalography, positron
    emission tomography, and single-photon emission computed tomography.
                                                    24

      WO 2014/093901                                                           PCT/US2013/075146
          34.     A method of treating or preventing diseases of the brain affecting energy
  metabolism in a subject, comprising administering to the subject an effective amount of
  triheptanoin, where the administration of triheptanoin restores mitochondrial energy function
  and net biosynthesis through anaplerosis.
5         35.     An odd-chain fatty acid source for use in treating a GLUT1 deficiency and
  optionally a GLUT-deficiency associated condition or disorder.
          36.     The odd-chain fatty acid source for use according to claim 35, which provides
  a statistically significant therapeutic effect in the treatment of the GLUT1 deficiency and
  optionally the GLUT1 deficiency-associated disorder or condition.
0         37.     Triheptanoin or a derivative thereof for use in treating a GLUT1 deficiency
  and optionally a GLUT-deficiency associated condition or disorder.
          38.     The triheptanoin or derivative thereof for use according to claim 37, which
  provides a statistically significant therapeutic effect in the treatment of the GLUT1 deficiency
  and optionally the GLUT1 deficiency-associated disorder or condition.
                                                   25

