H:\rbr\iteroven\NRPortbl\DCC\RBR\17202849_ I.doex-22/06/2018
                                                             ABSTRACT
The present invention relates to granular composite density enhancement, and related methods
and compositions. The applications where these properties are valuable include but are not
limited to: 1) additive manufacturing ("3D printing") involving metallic, ceramic, cermet,
polymer, plastic, or other dry or solvent-suspended powders or gels, 2) concrete materials, 3)
solid propellant materials, 4) cermet materials, 5) granular armors, 6) glass-metal and glass
plastic mixtures, and 7) ceramics comprising (or manufactured using) granular composites.

       WO 2015/073081                                                                   PCT/US2014/051468
          0.045
            0.04
          ~D035
          $0.02
       &    0.03
        9L
        20.015
            0.01
           0.005
                     10                 1                   10                    10                 1
                                                 volume (mm)
            0.01
           0.009
           0.008
           0.005
       * 0.004
           0.003
           0.002
           0.001
                      10                  01                 102                                        4o1
                                                 Volume (mm)
Caption Figure 1: Top: Volume probability density curves for two groups of particles, group 1 with a mean
volume Vjav of 25 mm 3, maximum at VI = 18 mm 3, and standard deviation of (1/2) its mean (blue), and group 2
with a mean volume V? g of 1000 mm3, maximum at Vi = 716 mm 3, and a standard deviation of (1/2) its mean
(green). Bottom: Passing curves for the same two particle groups, plotted for S = 1.00958, assuming that each
particle group contains the same total volume of particles. It is of note that in the graphs depicted, the locations
of the maxima Vi and V2 are not the same, with the maxima in the passing curves (bottom) occurring at V = 20
and V2 = 800. Plotting the volume probability curves as passing curves repositions maxima and alters height
and standard deviations in such a way as to allow direct comparisons between particle groups.
                                                  1/8

H:\rbr\iteroven\NRPortbl\DCC\RBR\17202849_ I.doex-22/06/2018
                      DENSITY ENHANCEMENT METHODS AND COMPOSITIONS
                 This application is a divisional application of Australian Application No. 2014349205
the specification and drawings of which as originally filed are incorporated herein in their
entirety by reference.
Field of the Invention
                 This invention was made with government support under grant numbers DMR
0820341 and DMS-1211087 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The government
has certain rights in the invention.
Background
                 A granular material, or granular composite, is an accumulation of constituent particles,
where each constituent has a pre-determined geometry (size and shape) that remains
approximately fixed when the constituents are placed in close proximity and pressed against
one another, for example, by gravity. In a granular composite, the constituents may also be
suspended in a solvent or liquid or held approximately or exactly fixed in place by a "paste" or
"glue". Granular composites are ubiquitous throughout industry, research labs, and the natural
world. Common examples of granular composites in the natural world include dirt, sand, and
gravel; common examples of man-made granular composites include concrete, bird shot,
sugar, baby powder, solid propellants, cermets, ceramics, inks, and colloids.
                 The physical characteristics of a granular composite depend intimately on the detailed
multi-bodied structure that is formed through the physical interaction of its constituent
particles, and on the physical characteristics of the materials that comprise the constituents.
These characteristics include but are not limited to: porosity (fraction of void space not filled
by constituent particles), viscosity, mechanical strength, ductility, tensile strength, elastic
modulus, bulk modulus, shear modulus, thermal conductivity, electrical conductivity, and
thermal expansion coefficient. For example, a composite consisting of a given type of material
with a higher-porosity structure will generally be less strong, thermally conductive, and
electrically conductive than a composite consisting of the same type of material but with a
lower-porosity structure. Or, a composite consisting of constituents that tend to be very rough
(high coefficients of friction) and aspherical in shape will, when randomly mixed, generally
form a less-dense (higher porosity) structure than a composite consisting of constituents of the
same material but where the constituents are relatively less rough and apsherical.
                                                             1

   WO 2015/073081                                                             PCT/US2014/051468
        The study of granular composites and their applications has generally focused on
measuring both the physical characteristics of a given composite and the geometric size, shape,
and other physical characteristics of its constituent particles. For example, in the concrete
industry, where crushed rock and sand are mixed with wet cement (the "paste") in certain
proportions to form concrete, a "passing curve" is often used to approximately represent the size
distribution of constituent particles in the mixture. This "passing curve" is generated by passing
the dry mixture of sand and crushed rock (also called the aggregate) through a succession of finer
and finer sieves, then plotting the volume (or mass) fraction of aggregate that has passed through
each sieve. It is known that changing the size distribution of particles, for example, by reducing
the amount of smaller-sized aggregate (the sand, in this case), can change the physical
characteristics of the wet concrete, for example, wet concrete viscosity, and also of the dried and
set concrete, for example, concrete elastic moduli and durability. In this way, some researchers
have sought to improve concrete properties by changing the mixing ratios of aggregates. F. de
Larrard,Concrete optimization with regard to packing density and rheology, 3rd RILEM
international symposium on rheology of cement suspensions such as fresh concrete, France
(2009). J. M. Shilstone, Jr., and J.M. Schilstone, Sr., Performancebased concrete mixtures and
specificationsfor today, Concrete International, 80-83, February (2002). F. de Larrard, Concrete
mixture proportioning,Routledge, New York (1999). J. M. Schilstone, Concrete mixture
optimization, Concrete International, 33-40, June (1990).
        However, the broad problem of designing granular composites based on constituent
geometry and characteristics has not been generally tractable due to its immense complexity. The
characteristics of a composite depend not only on the detailed geometry and physical
characteristics of cach and every component constituent, but also upon the position, orientation,
and arrangement of every particle in the composite. For example, a composite structure that is
obtained by shaking constituents in a closed container and then pouring into another container
will have a different porosity than a structure generated from the exact same constituents by
vibrating at high frequency in a container. This difference can be quite large, for example, as
much as 50% less porosity for the vibrated preparation, and the inherent differences between the
                                                 2

    WO 2015/073081                                                              PCT/US2014/051468
different porosity structures will have a pronounced effect on the physical characteristics of the
composite.
         For example, in concrete, the mechanical strength of a concrete has been shown to
depend exponentially on the porosity of the aggregate mixture, with mixtures exhibiting less
porosity being exponentially stronger. However, the viscosity, inversely related to ease of flow,
also depends exponentially on the porosity, with mixtures exhibiting less porosity flowing less
well (having higher viscosity). A concrete must flow to some extent in order to be poured at a
job site, and as such more porosity in the aggregate mixture might be required, even though more
porosity means lower strength. Another example is granular armors, where lower porosity of the
armor before molding would mean higher viscosity, making the finished armor more difficult to
fabricate but also stronger. With respect to solid propellants, the thrust of a rocket depends
roughly on the square of the density (density in composites is proportional to one minus
porosity) of the composite propellant.
         In general, what is needed is the ability to effectively predict, design and control the
structures of granular composites to provide a large degree of control over composite physical
characteristics. In particular, what is needed is a way to reduce the porosity of composites in
order to improve physical characteristics, and, in many cases, to reduce porosity while
maintaining low enough viscosity to retain the ability to be used in fabrication processes.
Summary of the Invention
         The present invention relates to granular composite density enhancement, and related
methods and compositions. The applications where these properties are valuable include but are
not limited to: 1) additive manufacturing ("3D printing") involving metallic, ceramic, cermet,
polymer, plastic, or other dry or solvent-suspended powders or gels, 2) concrete materials, 3)
solid propellant materials, 4) cermet materials, 5) granular armors, 6) glass-metal and glass
plastic mixtures, and 7) ceramics comprising (or manufactured using) granular composites.
         In one embodiment, the present invention contemplates a method of formulating so as to
produce materials of low porosity. In one embodiment, the present invention contemplates a
method of making a granular composite composition, comprising: a) providing at least first and
 second separate groups of at least 100 particles, each group possessing an average particle size
                                                  3

     WO 2015/073081                                                               PCT/US2014/051468
Vavg and a passing curve, representative of the particle volume probability density function Pi(V)
of the group, that exhibits one or more local maxima; and b) mixing particles from said two or
more groups under conditions such that some combination of at least 50 particles from each
group yields a combined granular composite exhibiting a combined passing curve, representative
of the particle volume probability density function P(V) of the combination, wherein said
combined granular composite has the following features: i) at least two local maxima, the
maximum occurring at the smaller volume (point) labeled V and the maximum occurring at the
larger volume labeled V2 , associated with different particle groups "1" and "2" such that the ratio
of V2avg /      avg is less than or equal to 10,000, ii) at least one local minimum falling between the
aforementioned two maxima such that the height of the passing curve at the local minimum is no
more than 75% of the height of the passing curve at either maxima, and iii) positive points V and
Vr, with at least one of the aforementioned local minimum falling between them and Vr / V, =
10,000, such that the integral of V.P(V) from Vi to at least one of the local minima falling
between the aforementioned two maxima and meeting criterion ii) is at least 2% of the integral of
V-P(V) from Vi to Vr, and such that the integral from that same local minimum to Vr is at least
2% of the integral of V P(V) from Vito Vr. In one embodiment, V2 avg/               <= 2,000 and >= 25.
                                                                                   9avg
             In one embodiment, there are more than two particle groups and the method comprises,
prior to step b), dividing particle groups into subsets. In one embodiment, said mixing is done
under conditions which inhibit phase separation. In one embodiment, said combined composite
exhibits a porosity of less than 25%, or less than 20%, or even less than 15%. In one
embodiment, said mixing reduces (relative) viscosity. In one embodiment, the combined
composite is immersed in a solvent, paste, gel, liquid, or suspension. In one embodiment,
V2avIug/V4     is less than or equal to (<=) 2,000 and greater than or equal to (>=) 25. In one
embodiment, the method further comprises optimization procedures to calculate a low-porosity
combination using two or more of said particle groups, wherein the optimization includes
obtaining porosity functions Pi(pij, pig2... (pij) or partial subset porosity functions
Pjl j2, ... (9tar,9j2...) for mixtures of particles groups. In one embodiment, optimization
procedures incorporate constraints on physical characteristics of the combined composite. In one
embodiment, said mixing results in a hyperuniform structure. In one embodiment, said mixing
results in a nearly-hyperuniform structure. In one embodiment, said mixing is done in a
                                                      4

    WO 2015/073081                                                                 PCT/US2014/051468
container with a diameter and height at least 100 times that of the largest particles in the largest
group. In one embodiment, said mixing comprises adding particles from the second group into
the first group of particles. In one embodiment, said mixing results in a final percentage of
particles from the group with smaller average particle volume of approximately 10-80%. In one
embodiment, said mixing comprises adding particles from the first group into the second group
of particles. In one embodiment, the particle size distribution for said first and second groups
exhibit arithmetic standard deviations of less than 20%. In one embodiment, the method further
comprises c) using said granular composite with a final porosity of less than 25% as a powder,
e.g. as a powder in laser sintering, or as a powder in laser melting, or as a powder in additive
manufacturing of ceramics, or as a powder in powder metallurgy, or as a powder for injection
molding, or as a powder for production of granular armors, or as a powder for some other
purpose. In yet another embodiment, the method further comprises c) using the granular
composite in making concrete.
         The present invention also contemplates compositions generated by methods described
herein. In one embodiment, the present invention contemplates a granular composite
composition composed of at least 100 particles, that exhibits a passing curve, representative of
the particle size (volume) probability density function P(V), that has the following features; i) at
least two local maxima occurring at volumes Vi and Vf, wherein the smaller of the volumes is
labeled Vi and the larger of the volumes is labeled Vj; ii) at least one local minimum occurring
at Vi,, such that Vi < V < V, wherein the height of the passing curve at the local minimum
occurring at Vig is no more than 75% percent of the height of the passing curve at either local
maximum; iii) points Vh-_ and V-k, such that Vhi < Vi < V< Vi-, wherein the point Vh-i is defined
as: whichever is larger of the volume of the smallest particle in the composite or a minimum
between maxima at V and Vi, V <Vi, such that the maxima at V corresponds to a particle group
"h" meeting all criteria i), ii), iii), iv) and v), and wherein the point V;.k is defined as: whichever
is smaller of either the volume of the largest particle in the composite or a minimum between
maxima at V and Vi, V < V, such that the maxima at Vk corresponds to a particle group "k"
meeting all criteria i), ii), iii), iv) and v); iv) average particle volumes ViaVg and Vjavg such that
Vavg / Viavg < 10,000, of corresponding particle groups "i" and 'j", where group "i" is defined as
the group containing all particles with volumes ranging from V.-i to Vj, and group 'j" is defined
                                                      5

    WO 2015/073081                                                            PCT/US2014/051468
as the group containing all particles with volumes ranging from Vij to V-k, and; v) points V and
V V<      Vavg< V"r<   Vr and Vr / V= 10,000, such that the integral of V*P(V) from Vh-i to at least
one of the local minima V; falling between the maxima at Vi and V and meeting criterion ii) is at
least 2% of the integral of V*P(V) from Vito Vr, and such that the integral from that same local
minimum at Vigj to Vi-k is at least 2% of the integral of V*P(V) from V to Vr. In one
embodiment, for at least one pair of particle groups 'j" and "i", Vavg > Via"    V"g/    "v <=
2,000 and >=25. In one embodiment, for at least one pair of adjacent (by average volume)
particle groups, the average number of large-large nearest neighbors within the larger (by
average volume) of the two groups is greater than or equal to one. In one embodiment, the
relative volume of the smaller of at least one pair of adjacent (by average volume) particle
groups is between 10% and 80% of the total volume of particles in the pair of groups. In one
embodiment, the mixture of particle groups in fixed amounts occupies a larger volume of space
than the volume of space occupied by any single particle group in that fixed amount on its own.
In one embodiment, said composite exhibits a porosity of less than 25%, and more preferably
less than 20%, and even less than 15%. In one embodiment, said granular composite is
immersed in a solvent, paste, gel, liquid, or suspension. In one embodiment, the spatial phase
separation of particles into similarly-sized groups does not occur for all groups of particles. In
one embodiment, the pair correlation function of said granular composite demonstrates an
increased probability of linear arrangements of the centers of three contacting particles, where
two particles exhibit volumes at least 25 times that of the other particle or where two particles
exhibit volumes at least 25 times smaller than that of the other particle.
         In one embodiment, the present invention contemplates systems, layers and methods for
additive manufacturing. In one embodiment, the present invention contemplates a system
comprising a) a dispenser positioned over a target surface, said dispenser containing a granular
composite having a porosity of 20% or less; and b) an energy source positioned to transfer
energy to said composite when composite is dispensed on said target surface. In one
embodiment, said composite is protected against oxidation with an inert shielding gas. In one
embodiment, said composite is a sinterable powder. In one embodiment, said composite is a
fusible powder. In one embodiment, said composite is a meltable powder. It is not intended that
the present invention be limited to powders having a particular melting temperature. In one
                                                  6

    WO 2015/073081                                                            PCT/US2014/051468
embodiment, said meltable powder exhibits a melting temperature between 500 and 5000 C. It
is also not intended that the present invention be limited to the nature of the particles used to
make the powders. In one embodiment, said powder comprises metal particles. In one
embodiment, said powder comprises ceramic particles. In one embodiment, said powder
comprises cermet particles. In one embodiment, said powder comprises a mixture of ceramic and
metal particles. In one embodiment, said powder comprises carbide particles. In one
embodiment, said powder comprises glass particles. The powders can be mixtures of two or
more particle types. In one embodiment, said powder comprises a mixture of polymer and metal
particles. In one embodiment, said powder comprises a mixture of polymer and ceramic
particles. In one embodiment, said powder comprises a mixture of polymer and glass particles. In
one embodiment, said powder comprises a mixture of metal and glass particles. In one
embodiment, said powder comprises a mixture of carbide and polymer particles. In one
embodiment, said powder comprises a mixture of carbide and metal particles. In one
embodiment, said powder comprises a mixture of carbide, cermet, and metal particles. In one
embodiment, said powder comprises a mixture of carbide, cermet, and polymer particles. In one
embodiment, said powder comprises a mixture of ceramic, metal, and polymer particles. In one
embodiment, said powder comprises a mixture of metal, glass, and polymer particles. In one
embodiment, said powder comprises a mixture of carbide, metal, and polymer particles. In one
embodiment, said powder comprises Titanium alloy particles and has a porosity of
approximately 10%. In one embodiment, said powder comprises first and second groups of
particles, said particles of said first group having an average particle volume that is at least 25
times larger than the average particle volume of said particles of said second group. In one
embodiment, said powder comprises first and second groups of particles, said particles of said
first group having an average particle volume that is between 25 and 2000 times larger than the
average particle volume of said particles of said second group. In one embodiment, said powder
comprises a 62.8%: 16.2% : 16.7%: 4.3% mixture (by volume) of a first group comprising
approximately 10 micron particles, a second group comprising approximately 2 micron particles,
a third group comprising approximately 200 nanometer particles, and a fourth group comprising
approximately 40 nanometer particles, respectively, said powder having a porosity of
                                                  7

    WO 2015/073081                                                            PCT/US2014/051468
approximately 4.4%. In one embodiment, said energy source is a laser. In one embodiment, said
granular composite is in a solvent. In one embodiment, said granular composite is in a paste.
        The present invention also contemplates layers. In one embodiment, the present
invention contemplates a layer of a granular composite powder, said layer less than 1000
microns in thickness, said powder having a porosity of 20% or less. In one embodiment, said
powder is sinterable. In one embodiment, said powder is fusible. In one embodiment, said
powder is meltable. Again, it is not intended that the present invention be limited to the nature of
the particles used to make the powders. In one embodiment, said powder comprises metal
particles. In one embodiment, said powder comprises ceramic particles. In one embodiment, said
powder comprises cermet particles. In one embodiment, said powder comprises carbide particles.
Again, mixtures of particles are contemplated. In one embodiment, said power comprises a
mixture of ceramic and metal particles. In one embodiment, said power comprises a mixture of
ceramic, metal and polymer particles. In one embodiment, said powder comprises Titanium alloy
particles and has a porosity of approximately 10%. In one embodiment, said powder comprises
first and second groups of particles, said particles of said first group having an average particle
volume that is at least 25 times larger than the average particle volume of said particles of said
second group. In one embodiment, said powder comprises first and second groups of particles,
said particles of said first group having an average particle volume that is between 25 and 2000
times larger than the average particle volume of said particles of said second group. In one
embodiment, said powder comprises a 62.8%: 16.2%: 16.7%: 4.3% mixture of a first group
comprising approximately 10 micron particles, a second group comprising approximately 2
micron particles, a third group comprising approximately 200 nanometer particles, and a fourth
group comprising approximately 40 nanometer particles, respectively, said powder having a
porosity of approximately 4.4%. In one embodiment, said layer is positioned on a second layer of
a granular composite powder, said second layer less than 1000 microns in thickness, said powder
having a porosity of 20% or less. In one embodiment, both layers are approximately 50 microns
in thickness. In one embodiment, said granular composite powder is in a solvent. In one
embodiment, said granular composite powder is in a paste.
         The present invention also contemplates methods for making layers. In one embodiment,
the present invention contemplates a method of producing layers comprising the steps of: a)
                                                 8

    WO 2015/073081                                                             PCT/US2014/051468
providing a source of a granular composite powder having a porosity of 20% or less;
b) depositing a first portion of said powder onto a target surface; c) depositing energy into the
powder of said first portion under conditions that said energy causes sintering, fusing or melting
of the first powder portion so as to create a first layer; d) depositing a second portion of powder
onto said first layer; and e) depositing energy into the powder of said second portion under
conditions that said energy causes sintering, fusing or melting of the second powder portion so as
to create a second layer positioned on said first layer. It is not intended that the present invention
be limited by the energy source. In one embodiment, the energy is deposited by a laser. In one
embodiment, step c) comprises focusing the laser with at least one lens. It is not intended that
the present invention be limited to layers of a particular thickness. However, in one
embodiment, said first and second layers are less than 100 microns (or less than 50 microns) in
thickness. It is not intended that the present invention be limited by the nature of the particles
used to make the powder. In one embodiment, said powder comprises metal particles. In one
embodiment, said powder comprises ceramic particles. In one embodiment, said powder
comprises cermet particles. In one embodiment, said powder comprises carbide particles. In one
embodiment, said powder comprises a mixture of ceramic and metal particles. In one
embodiment, said powder comprises a mixture of ceramic, metal and polymer particles. In one
embodiment, said powder comprises Titanium alloy particles and has a porosity of
approximately 10%. It is also not intended that the present invention be limited by the number of
groups of particles. In one embodiment, said powder comprises first and second groups of
particles, said particles of said first group having an average particle volume at least 25 times
larger than the average particle volume of said particles of said second group. In one
embodiment, said powder comprises first and second groups of particles, said particles of said
first group having an average particle volume that is between 25 and 2000 times larger than the
average particle volume of said particles of said second group. In one embodiment, said powder
comprises a 62.8%: 16.2% :16.7%: 4.3% mixture of a first group comprising approximately 10
micron particles, a second group comprising approximately 2 micron particles, a third group
comprising approximately 200 nanometer particles, and a fourth group comprising
approximately 40 nanometer particles, respectively, said powder having a porosity of
                                                  9

    WO 2015/073081                                                              PCT/US2014/051468
approximately 4.4%. In one embodiment, said granular composite powder is in a solvent. In one
embodiment, said granular composite powder is suspended in a paste.
        The present invention also contemplates making layers using two or more different
powders. In one embodiment, the present invention contemplates a method of producing layers
comprising the steps of: a) providing first and second granular composite powders, each of said
powders having a porosity of 20% or less; b) depositing said first powder onto a target surface;
c) depositing energy into said first powder under conditions such that said energy causes
sintering, fusing or melting of said first powder so as to create a first layer; d) depositing said
second powder onto the first layer; and e) depositing energy into said second powder such that
said energy causes sintering, fusing or melting of said second powder so as to create a second
layer. Again, it is not intended that the present invention be limited by the energy source. In one
embodiment, said energy is deposited by a laser. Again, it is not intended that the present
invention be limited to layers of a particular thickness. In one embodiment, said first and second
layers are less than 100 microns (or less than 50 micros) in thickness. Again, the present
invention is not limited to particular types of particles or particle combinations used to make the
powders. In one embodiment, said first powder comprises metal particles. In one embodiment,
said second powder comprises ceramic particles. In one embodiment, said first powder
comprises cermet particles. In one embodiment, said second powder comprises a mixture of
ceramic and metal particles. In one embodiment, said first powder comprises Titanium alloy
particles and has a porosity of approximately 10%. In one embodiment, said first powder
comprises first and second groups of particles, said particles of said first group having an average
particle volume at least 25 times larger than the average particle volume of said particles of said
second group. In one embodiment, said first powder comprises first and second groups of
particles, said particles of said first group having an average particle volume that is between 25
and 2000 times larger than the average particle volume of said particles of said second group.
        The systems, layers and methods described above can be used for 3D printing. With
respect to powders used in 3D printing employing an energy source to sinter, melt, or fuse
particles, lower porosity means more reproducible manufacture, higher thermal conductivity, and
a higher efficiency of laser energy absorbed by the powder, among other advantages.
                                                  10

     WO 2015/073081                                                            PCT/US2014/051468
Brief Description of the Figures
         Figure 1A is a plot of volume probability density curves for two groups of particles,
group 1 with a mean volume Va'l of 25 mm, maximum at V             = 18 mm3 , and standard deviation
of (1/2) its mean (blue), and group 2 with a mean volume V"" of 1000 mm 3 , maximum at V =
716 mm3 , and a standard deviation of (1/2) its mean (green). Figure 1B shows passing curves for
the same two particle groups, plotted for S     = 1.01005, assuming that each particle group contains
the same total volume of particles. The Y-axis of Figure lB is labeled "Fraction of particles" to
emphasize that the scaling of the axis is dependent on the parameter S, though if each point Vsi
were plotted, each point would represent the volume of particles between the points 0.5*(Vs,- 1 +
 Vs,i) and 0.5*(Vsi + Vs,i+1), and the units of the axis would be volume (mm 3). It is of note that,
due to the normalization to unity of the integral of P(V), information about the relative number of
particles in each group is not present in Figure 1A, or generally when comparing P(V) for
different groups of particles. However, a passing curve or probability density function for an
already-combined composite will retain this information. It is also of note that in the graphs
depicted, the locations of the maxima V] and V2 are not the same, with the maxima in the passing
curves (bottom) occurring at about V      =  28.1 and V2 = 1113.2. Plotting the volume probability
curves as passing curves repositions maxima and alters height and standard deviations in such a
way as to allow direct comparisons between particle groups.
         Figure 2 provides an example of a passing curve plotted with S = 1. 00958 that includes 5
local maxima (labeled Vi to V5). For this distribution of particles, there are two "sufficiently
sized" particle groups corresponding to the maxima at V2 and V5, and represented by the volume
ranges [V ,V3 4], and [V34,Vr], respectively. These particle groups are also adjacent, both because
there are no other sufficiently sized particle groups between them, and because the ratio of larger
to smaller average volume of particles in the groups is less than 10,000. The maximum at V is
not associated with a particle group that is sufficiently sized because the smallest minima at V1 2
between the maxima at V and V2 is of a height PCs(V2. 3) that is greater than 75% of the height
PCs(V) of the maximum at V1. The particle group corresponding to the maximum at V3 is not
sufficiently sized because the integral of P(T) V, with P(V) calculated from the passing curve
                                                   11

    WO 2015/073081                                                            PCT/US2014/051468
PCs(Vs,), over the range [V2 -3,V 3 4] (alternatively, the sum of all PCs(Vs) in the same range) is
less than 2% of the integral of P(V)V over [V,Vr] (alternatively, the sum of all PCs(Vs,i) in the
same range). The maximum at V4 is not associated with a particle group that is sufficiently sized
because, similarly to the maximum at V, the height PCs(V4 _5) of the minimum at V4_5 is greater
than 75% of the height PCs(V 4) of the maximum at V4 .
         Figure 3 shows the pair correlation function g2(r) for a binary mixture (two sizes) of
spherical particles with the larger particles of diameter one and the smaller of diameter 0.45
(large to small volume ratio of 11), and with relative volume fraction xs of smaller particles equal
to 0.267 (near the minimum in porosity for this size ratio of particles). Note the peaks
(discontinuities) and linear behavior in g2(r) at distances r = 1.175, r = 1.4, and r = 1.725. These
discontinuities, which can be described as a sharp maximum followed by an immediate vertical
drop, represent a higher probability of linear arrangements of the centers of contacting particles
in clusters consisting of; two small and one large (r = 1.175), one large between two smalls (r =
1.4), and two larges and one small (r = 1.725). The preference for these linear arrangements of
the centers of three particles is unique to DSMG structures, but can only be easily detected for
mixtures of particle groups where each and every particle group exhibits a particularly small size
variation about the average size, i.e., the volume distributions P() for each individual particle
group exhibits a small standard deviation.
         Figure 4A shows an example passing curve for a grouping of particles that can be
considered as two sufficiently sized groups. Figure 4B shows the example division of grouping
of particles into two sufficiently sized groups
         Figure 5A shows an example of passing curves for two groupings of particles that should
be considered as one, since no combination of relative volumes of particles from group one
(blue, lower maximum) and group two (green, higher maximum) can lead to a combined passing
curve where two sufficiently sized particle groups are present. Figure 5B shows an example
combination passing curve of groupings of particles that have been combined as a single group.
         Figure 6 is a schematic showing the separating of 9 particle groupsj = 1... 9 with group
average particle volumes Va" into subsets according to volume ranges spanning four orders of
magnitude (factor of 10,000). In this case, the super-set {i} of all subsets contains 4 subsets,
 {1,2,3,4}i, {4,5}2, {5,6,7}3, and {7,8,9}4.
                                                  12

    WO 2015/073081                                                             PCT/US2014/051468
          Figure 7 provides a side image (Figure 7A) and top image (Figure 7B) of a mixture of
 about 17% relative volume fraction of 2mm diameter soda-lime beads with about 83% relative
 volume fraction of 10mm diameter soda-lime beads, with porosity of 21.2%. The beads have
 sphericity of > 0.98 and coefficient of static friction < 0.05, and hence simulate frictionless
 spheres well.
          Figure 8 is a diagram showing an example calculation of the volumes used in calculating
 the approximate mixing volume fractions rp used to reduce porosity when particle groups from
 different subsets are mixed. The example given is for subsets that contain one overlapping
particle group with each adjacent subset.
Definitions
          As used herein, the "TJ algorithm" refers to the method for generating disordered strictly
jammed (mechanically stable) packings (a packing is a collection of nonoverlapping objects with
 specified positions) of spheres or nonspherical objects, as described in A. B. Hopkins, F. H.
 Stillinger, and S. Torquato, Disorderedstrictlyjammed binary spherepackings attain an
anomalously large range of densities, Physical Review E 88, 022205 (2013). The TJ algorithm
 approaches the problem of generating strictly jammed packings as an optimization problem to be
 solved using linear programming techniques. The objective function to be minimized in this
optimization problem is chosen to be roughly equivalent to the negative of the packing fraction,
where the packing fraction is the volume of space that the objects cover.
          The space employed is a defornable unit cell in d dimensions with lattice vectors MX =
 (;. ;. d} containing N objects under periodic boundary conditions. Each of the N objects is
 composed of different sizes of spheres, such that the spheres overlap and retain fixed positions
with respect to one another, but not necessarily with respect to the other objects. Objects of any
 shape and size can be formed using overlapping spheres that are fixed in position relative to one
 another.
          Starting from initial conditions of the packing of N objects at an arbitrary packing
 fraction, where random initial conditions at low packing fraction yield experimentally
reproducible results, a linear programming problem is solved to minimize the volume of the unit
 cell for limited translations and rotations of the N objects, limited shear and compression of the
                                                  13

     WO 2015/073081                                                            PCT/US2014/051468
cell, and under linearized nonoverlap conditions of the objects. This solution results in new
coordinates and orientations for the objects, and a new unit cell with smaller volume. Using these
new coordinates, orientations, and unit cell, a new linear programming problem is solved to
minimize the unit cell under similar limited movement and nonoverlap conditions. This process
is repeated until no further volume reductions in the unit cell are possible. The final solution of
this sequential linear programming (SLP) process is guaranteed to be strictly jammed
(mechanically stable).
         The mathematical formulation of each linear programming problem is as follows. In this
formulation, rii = xi - xj is the displacement vector for spheres with positions xUi, in the basis of
the unit cell lattice Mx, between spheres i andj in the packing, Ar , = Axi - Ax'j are the change
in displacement to be solved for during each SLP optimization step, and C= {ekiz} is the strain
tensor associated with the unit cell, with the {etz} also solved for during the SLP step. All AxtX
and 8ek are bounded from above and below to yield a limited movement range for the spheres
during each step that is small compared to sphere diameters.
         The value minimized is the trace of the strain matrix, Tr(s) = eIi +   ... + ed, which
equivalent to the linearized change in volume of the unit cell. In addition to the upper and lower
bounds on Ax and ekl, each Ax\i and e1 must obey the linearized nonoverlap constraints for each
pair ij of different spheres. These constraints are written, M - rj.     -Mk -r     + Ar ij- MX - Mu
r    > (Dij - rUij - MT,: M, r iJ), with Dij the average diameter of spheres i andj. For each
nonspherical object, when spheres i andj are part of the same object, these spheres not have to
obey the linearized nonoverlap constraints. Rather, their positions are fixed relative to a single
reference sphere, one reference sphere per object, such that their individual displacement is
determined entirely by the displacement and orientation of the reference sphere. For this purpose,
two additional orientation variables (pi and O are required for each reference sphere, such that the
(i; and 0 for each reference sphere must be bounded from above and below just as are the Axi
and cI1, and solved for at each SLP step.
         Friction is also incorporated into the TJ algorithm via a sphere "stickiness" probability Pf,
0  o Pf   1, and distance xf. When two objects contact one another at a certain point (i.e., fall
within distance x1 of one another) after an SLP step, on the next SLP step, they maintain that
contact with probability Pf via restrictions in each object's translation and orientation. The larger
                                                   14

    WO 2015/073081                                                             PCT/US2014/051468
 the values of Pf and xf, the greater the friction. The value Pf = 0 corresponds to frictionless or
very low-friction objects.
         In a two-phase heterogeneous medium (also called "structure"), the variance o (R) of the
local volume fraction of either phase is equal to (1/v(R)) *Int(X(r) - a(r ; R)dr), where "r"is a
vector in d-dimensional Euclidean space, "dr" an infinitesimal volume element in that space,
v(R) is the volume of a sphere of radius "R" in "d" dimensions, x(r) is the autocovariance
function, a(r ; R) is the scaled intersection volume, and the integral "Int" runs over the entire
space. If the structure is hyperuniform, then the number variance of(R) grows proportionally
only as fast as (1/R)d+ , rather than (1/R)d. This is equivalent to saying that, in the limit as Ikl|
approaches zero, the spectral density, which is the Fourier transform of the autocovariance
function F>(k)], is equal to zero, where      Il indicates the Euclidean distance and Ff-] the Fourier
transform.
         Consider a two-phase medium where the one phase consists of granular particles of any
material, type, size or composition, and the other is void space, a solvent, a gel, a paste, or some
other type of fill-material. For this medium, which is a granular composite, the local volume
fraction of phase "i" at point "zg" for a given "R" is defined as the fraction of space belonging to
phase "i" contained within a d-dimensional sphere of radius "R" centered at point "zo". The
variance o (R) for phase "i" of local volume fraction is the variance of local volume fraction
over all points "zo" in the medium. Such a variance for a two-phase medium does not depend of
which phase one considers, as is indicated in the above mathematical description of oj(R) in
terms of the autocovariance function y(r) and scaled intersection volume a(r ; R).
         The autocovariance function X(r) in a two-phase heterogeneous medium can be written in
terms of the two-point probability function S 2 (r) and the volume fraction <pi asX(r)    = Sd2(r)- pi,
where choosing either phase "i" yields the same X(r). The two point probability function Si 2(r)
for phase "i" is equal to the probability that the end points of a line segment of length Ir||
oriented along the direction of "r"both fall in phase "i", and the volume fraction qo is the fraction
of space covered by phase "i". The scaled intersection volume a(r ; R) is equal to the union of
two d-dimensional spheres of radius "R" separated by distance "r". For more details, see C. E.
Zachary, Y. Jiao, and S. Torquato, Hyperunform long-range correlationsare a signatureof
disorderedjammedhard-particlepackings, Physical Review Letters 106, 178001 (2011).
                                                   15

    WO 2015/073081                                                              PCT/US2014/051468
         For a finite number of constituent particles, the limit of the spectral density F[X(k)] as |kII
approaches zero must be defined in more detail, as only in the limit of infinite space and infinite
particles does ||kil reach zero. For a finite group of particles, the values of Ik|| chosen must be
limited such that Ikil > 1 /L, where "L" is the linear extent of the system size. In this case, the
limit as k I approaches zero can be defined by fitting a curve to F[X(k)] for the smallest few
points of I|kI| and extrapolating such that that fitted curve includes the point ||kJI = 0. A structure
is defined as "nearly-hyperuniform" if the limit as Ilkl approaches zero, in units of F[x(k)] /
 <Vl">2with <Vl"> the average effective diameter of the constituent particles, is less than the
value "0.01".
         The value "0.01" is chosen to reflect the degree of long-range spatial correlations present
in certain types of systems. For example, all crystalline and quasi-crystalline arrangements of
particles are hyperuniform, as are maximally random jammed arrangements of spheres. All of
these systems express long range ordering between particles: in a crystal, the position of each
particle is fixed relative to the position of its neighbors, and in a maximally random jammed
arrangement of spheres, the pair correlation function decays as -1/rd-l, with "r" the distance
between points (see A. Donev, F. H. Stillinger, and S. Torquato, Unexpected densityfluctuations
injammed disorderedsphere packings, Physical Review Letters 95, 090604 (2005)). In a liquid,
the pair correlation function decays exponentially fast, and, for example, in the limit as I k I
approaches zero for the hard sphere liquid, F[X(k)] is equal to about 0.028. Generally speaking,
the smaller is F[X(k)] in the limit as ||kJI approaches zero, the smaller the growth of the number
variance a](R) in "R", and the greater the spatial correlation between particles at large distances.
Description of the Invention
         A granular composite density enhancement process is described for granular composites
with constituents of all sizes, shapes, and physical characteristics. The process consistently
results in composites that exhibit a combination of lower porosity and viscosity than known, in
general practice, to be obtainable given particles within a range of relative sizes, where particle
size, unless otherwise stated, refers to the volume of space occupied by a given single particle.
This process also leads to reduced phase separation of particles, where the separation of particles
into distinct size groups is a significant practical hurdle in producing dense composites when
                                                   16

    WO 2015/073081                                                           PCT/US2014/051468
many groups of particles with large size differences between groups are used as composite
constituents. The process, which involves the tailored mixing of specially-chosen size groups of
particles in targeted ratios, produces structures, and therefore a composition of matter, of a type
heretofore unidentified. These structures are distinguishable through their physical properties,
including porosity and viscosity, and also through statistical measures including but not limited
to structure pair correlation functions, contact distributions, and volume distributions of
constituents. Specifically, certain specific features exhibited by the aforementioned statistical
measures on these structures are not exhibited by the statistical measures on those granular
composite structures that are commonly known.
         This process has a number of applications due to desirable reduction in porosity,
reduction in viscosity, reduction in tendency to phase separate, or a combination of all three
factors, and due to the desirable physical and related economic properties caused by and
correlated to reductions in porosity, viscosity and phase separation. The desirable physical
properties include but are not limited to, greater bulk modulus, elastic moduli, shear moduli,
durability, hardness, flowability (ease of flow), thermal conductivity, heat capacity, electrical
conductivity, overall absorption of laser (and other photonic) energy, and overall absorption of
heat (and phononic energy), as well as reductions in interface energies with "bulk" molecular
solids, thermal expansion coefficient, skin depth of absorption of laser (and other photonic)
energy, and skin depth of absorption of sonic energy. The desirable economic properties include
but are not limited to, decreased cost of composite components, increased reproducibility and
repeatability of processing of, and more uniform processing of, granular composites. The
applications where these properties are valuable include but are not limited to: 1) additive
manufacturing ("3D printing") involving metallic, ceramic, cermet, polymer, plastic, or other dry
or solvent-suspended powders or gels or slurries, 2) concrete materials, 3) solid propellant
materials, 4) cermet materials, 5) granular armors, 6) glass-metal and glass-plastic mixtures, and
7) ceramics comprising (or manufactured using) granular composites.
         In additive manufacturing, a material, often a powder, must be placed in a desired spatial
form and then reacted with (usually by heating) the solid material beneath it so that the first
material changes phase and bonds with the solid, becoming solid itself. In these cases, the
benefits of lower porosity and viscosity can include but are not limited to: more even heating and
                                                 17

    WO 2015/073081                                                             PCT/US2014/051468
melting of the granular composite, ease of placement and more even placement of the composite,
increased overall laser absorption and reduced skin depth of absorption, decreased lateral
scattering of energy in the composite, reduced oxidation of the composite, and reduced
temperature gradient across the composite and consequently across the melted and resolidified
solid derived from the composite.
         In concrete materials, lower-porosity mixtures of aggregate that still flow at the requisite
rate permit reductions in paste material required to fill the voids between aggregate and "glue"
the aggregate together. These paste materials, generally including Portland cement, are often the
most expensive components of the concrete, and therefore their reduction is highly desirable.
Additionally, reductions in aggregate porosity in concrete are often correlated with exponentially
increasing strength, including bulk modulus, elastic and shear moduli, hardness and longevity.
         In solid propellant materials, which are often granular composites, a reduction in porosity
and associated increase in density leads to increase in propellant thrust, which can depend on the
square of composite density. Increased thrust is desirable due to the increased ability to lift loads,
increased speed of rocket, and other desirable advantages.
         In cermet materials, granular armors, ceramics comprising (or manufactured using)
granular composites, glass metal mixtures, and glass plastic mixtures, reduced porosity leads to
greater strength including but not limited to greater bulk modulus, elastic and shear moduli,
hardness and longevity. It generally also leads to increases in durability under thermal stress
cycling. These properties are often desirable in these materials due to their uses as protective
barriers, load-bearing structural materials, and high-temperature and stress/strain durable
materials.
         A. Properties of the New Composition of Matter
         The study of mechanically stable multimodal mixtures of granular particles has led to the
identification of a new composition of matter. This composition of matter may exhibit properties
similar to both those of a liquid and those of a solid, for example, in that, like a liquid, it may
flow when a sufficient external force (such as gravity) deforms its equilibrium shape, but, like a
solid, it may withstand small but non-zero bulk and shear stresses without deformation. This
composition of matter may, like a powder, exhibit both solid-like and liquid-like properties
simultaneously. This composition of matter is a granular composite, in the sense defined
                                                18

     WO 2015/073081                                                           PCT/US2014/051468
previously in this document, in that it can appear in a powder-like form, in a slurry-like (liquid)
form, or in a solid-like form when its constituents have been fixed in place by a "paste" or
"glue".
          Processes for producing this composition of matter will be discussed later. In this section,
the defining features and identification of this composition of matter are discussed. This
composition of matter is distinguishable through its physical properties, including porosity and
viscosity, and also through statistical measures including but not limited to structure pair
correlation functions, contact distributions, and volume distributions. This section discusses
certain specific features exhibited by the aforementioned statistical measures on these structures
that are not exhibited by the statistical measures on granular composite structures that are
commonly known.
          This composition of matter is defined by the structure and composition of its underlying
granular constituents. The class of structures that comprise this composition of matter will
hereafter be termed Dense Small-size-range Multimodal Granular (DSMG) structures, as certain
members of this class of structures are unusually dense for granular structures considering the
small range of sizes spanned by their constituent particles.
          In the following paragraphs, it is assumed that a granular composite and DSMG structure
is composed of at least approximately 100 particles. Generally, DSMG structures can be and are
composed of far more than 100 particles, but, due to the random nature of the mixing of
constituent particles in a granular composite, at least roughly 100 particles are necessary for
DSMG structural features to become apparent.
          All DSMG structures and the mixture of their constituent particles exhibit the following
characteristics:
          1. DSMG structures are composed of constituent particle sizes exhibiting volume
probability density functions P(V) (also referred to simply as volume distributions, or particle
size distributions), containing two or more local maxima associated with adjacent sufficiently
sized particle groups. To define particle groups that are both "adjacent" and "sufficiently sized",
it is first helpful to replot the volume distribution of the granular composite as a specific type of
passing curve that retains the maxima and minima (though they may occur at slightly different
points) present in the volume distribution P(V). Subsequently, the granular composite can be
                                                  19

    WO 2015/073081                                                           PCT/US2014/051468
divided into groups of particles according to this passing curve. The replotting of a volume
distribution as a passing curve is required to view maxima and minima occurring at different
volumes on a comparable scale,
     la. The volume distribution can be plotted as a set of points Vs,i, where this set of points is
called a passing curve PCs(Vsd, in the following fashion. For a range of volumes spanning from
the volume of the smallest particle to the volume of the largest particle in the composite, volume
intervals are selected on a geometric scale. That is to say, each interval begins at X(i) = S and
ends at X(i + 1)   = Se', where the "i" are integers i = m...n (with "m" and "n" either or both
possibly negative) such that for some appropriately chosen scalar S > 1, "S" to the power of "n"
is greater than the volume of the largest particle, and "S" to the power of "m" is smaller than the
volume of the smallest particle. A scalar S = So must be chosen to be at least small enough such
that for all S, 1 < S S So, the number and associated maxima and minima of sufficiently-sized of
particle groups determined by S remains constant. This means that there will be a one-to-one
correspondence between the local extrema (maxima and minima) in the volume distribution P(V)
and the passing curve PCs(Vsi), where the extrema considered are those associated with
sufficiently-sized particle groups. Consequently, the corresponding local maxima and minima in
both the curves P(V) and PCs(Vs) associated with sufficiently-sized particle groups can be
spoken of interchangeably.
         Provided a suitably small "S", the integral of the volume distribution times volume
P(V)V is taken over each interval and the result plotted at the midpoint of each interval; that is,
for each i = m... 0...n-1, Int X(i)^X(i+1)P(V)VdV is plotted at the volume point Vs,i   = (1/2) *(X(i)
+ X(i+ 1)). To view the relative standard deviations (standard deviation divided by mean) of
particle groups on a comparable scale, the points PCs(Vs) should be plotted with the volune
axis on a logarithmic scale. The resultant passing curve PCs(Vs) is similar or exactly
comparable to passing curves created by sieving particles using standard sieves because standard
sieves exhibit geometrically scaled mesh sizes. A smooth curve PCs(V) can be created from the
set of points PCs(Vsd simply by interpolating between points using any standard method. Both
curves PCs(V) and PCs(Vs,) exhibit the property that the sum over all i = m... n of PCs(V)       is
equal to the average particle volume     ", just as the integral of P(V)V from Vs, to Vsn is equal
                                                 20

    WO 2015/073081                                                             PCT/US2014/051468
to the average particle volume. A replotting of a volume distribution P(V) to a passing curve
PCs(Vsa) is depicted in Figure 1.
      lb. Once plotted, the passing curve can be simply divided into mutually exclusive
contiguous volume ranges, and accordingly, the granular composite particles into size groups
such that the endpoints of each volume range bound from below and above the size of particles
within the group. Particles with volumes falling at the endpoints can be placed in either group
having that endpoint. The volume ranges are defined such that each represents a particle group
of "sufficient size", and such that the upper and lower bounds of the range lie at a local minimum
falling at volumes between local maxima associated with particle groups of sufficient size. An
example and the definition of "sufficient size" follows. From a passing curve, described in
section 1a) above, consider two local maxima occurring at volumes V2 and V3 , V3 > V2, such that
the average particle volumes V2a and V3"9 of particles in groups associated with their respective
local maxima V2 and V3 obey V3 a / V2a <= 10,000. This latter condition is one of two
necessary for the particle groups to be considered "adjacent". For these local maxima to be
associated with particle groups that are sufficiently sized requires that: a) of all local minima
occurring between the two local maxima considered, there must be a local minimum "2-3" with
size PCs(V2 .3) occurring at V2 3, that is at most 75% of the size of the smaller of the two local
maxima sizes PCs(V2), PCs(V) and b) over some volume range [V,, V], such that V < V2av             <
Vav9 < Vr and Vr / V    = 10,000, both i) the sum over all i of PCs(Vs,) where the Vs are within the
range spanning a local minimum occurring at V1-2 between adjacent local maxima at V and V2 ,
and V2 3 , must be at least 2% of the value of the sum over all i of PCs(Vs) where the V, are
within the range [V,, VJ, and ii) the sum over all i of PCs(Vs,i) where the Vs, are within the range
spanning V2 .3 and a local minimum occurring at Vs4 between adjacent local maxima at V3 and
V4, must be at least 2% of the value of the sum over all i of PCs(Vs) where the Vs,1 are within the
range [V,, Vr]. If there is no local maximum of sufficient size V smaller than V2 , then a volume
Vjust smaller than the smallest particle size is taken instead, and if there is no local maximum of
sufficient size V4 larger than V3, then a volume Vjust greater than the largest particle size is
taken instead. If there are several local minima between a pair of local maxima, any of the local
minima can be chosen, and all must be considered to check if the criteria a) and b) can be met. It
is important to note that criterion a), after being successively applied to the maxima of an entire
                                                  21

    WO 2015/073081                                                             PCT/US2014/051468
granular composite, requires that both minima associated with (one to each side of) a local
maximum of a sufficiently-sized particle group have values PCs(V) that are no more than 75% of
the value of the local maximum in between them.
         The second condition for the two particle groups with maxima occurring at volumes V2
and V3 to be "adjacent" is that there must be no other local maxima in PCs(V) occurring at any
volume Vt, V2 < Vbo < V3, such that both the pair of maxima occurring at volumes V2 and Vot and
the pair of maxima occurring at volumes Vbt and V3 meet criteria a) and b) for being
"sufficiently-sized". Any granular composite divided into particle groups according to the
criteria just-described, such that all sufficiently sized groups are separated, must contain at least
one pair of adjacent sufficiently-sized particle groups for the composite to form a DSMG
structure. The volume probability density functions or passing curves referenced can be
determined by sieving, centrifuging, image analysis, or any other general established means. In
particular, it is not necessary that the functions determined be exact, but only to of a level of
accuracy commonly obtained by general established means of measuring such functions. Figure
2 contains an example of particle group definition using a passing curve.
         2. When mixed, spatial phase separation of particles into the particle groups associated
with local maxima in passing curves according to the criteria described in Characteristic 1 above
cannot occur for all groups across all spatial regions. Further, all DSMG structures must exhibit
some spatial mixing of particles from at least two adjacent sufficiently-sized groups. This means
that, for composites in their powder form, spatial mixing will include contacts between particles
in different groups in some regions of space within the composite where the region height, width,
and depth are at least in size on the order of several lengths of the largest particles from the
group with larger-volume particles.
         3. When in powder form, i.e., such that no liquid or other matrix material fills the void
space between constituent particles, DSMG structures have the property that: for a structure
composed of n groups of particles G in masses M, with the groups defined as in Characteristic 1
above, at least one pair of groups of particles Gi and G (with i andj integers ranging over all n
such that i does not equalj, when mixed in masses Mi and M, yields a volume greater than that
of either of the volumes of the individual groups Gi or Gj on its own. As a consequence of
particle group volume dependence on preparation method, this characteristic generally requires
                                                  22

    WO 2015/073081                                                               PCT/US2014/051468
similar methods of preparation and measurement for the volumes of single groups of particles
and mixtures of two groups of particles. Specifically, this characteristic excludes from the class
of DSMG structures those granular composites that, in powder form, exhibit the property that:
every group of particles, when mixed in the same quantities that they are mixed in the composite,
form mechanically stable structures comprising only particles from the group with larger volume
particles, where the particles from the group with smaller volume particles are present only in the
voids created by the mechanically stable structure composed solely of particles from the group
with larger particles.
        4. Consider all sets of particle groups in a granular composite, with groups defined as in
characteristic 1 above, such that in each set, the average particle volume of the group of largest
particles is no more than 10,000 times larger than the average particle volume of the group of
smallest particles. With these divisions considered, DSMG structures require:
        4a. It is possible to divide at least one set such that at least one pair of adjacent particle
groups in the set (when particle groups are ordered by average particle volume of the group)
exhibits the property that the volume in the "larger" of the two groups is at least 20% of the total
volume of particles in the pair of particle groups, and such that the total volume of particles in
the "smaller" group is at least 10% of the total volume of the pair of particle groups. If for every
pair of particle groups in every set of particle groups, it is not possible to meet these conditions,
then the granular composite generally will not form a DSMG structure.
        4b. For the entire composite in its powder form, considering all pairs of adjacent particle
groups in all sets of particles as before, for at least one set, the average number of larger nearest
neighbor particles for the particles in the larger group is greater than or equal to one. A "nearest
neighbor" with volume V,, to a given "central" particle with volume V, is defined as a particle
that can be put in contact with the central particle by moving it a distance less than Rs, where Rs
               3
=  ((3V n4r)      + (3Vi4rc)m13)/2 is the average sphere-equivalent particle radius of the two
particles. Nearest neighbors can be identified by many techniques, including "freezing" a powder
structure in place using special "glues" or "pastes" meant for that purpose and performing image
analysis of cross-sectional slices of the resulting solid, and through careful examination, by those
skilled in the art, of both the pair correlation function (obtainable via standard scattering
experiments) and volume probability density functions of the composite. The method of
                                                   23

    WO 2015/073081                                                             PCT/US2014/051468
determining nearest neighbors is not relevant to the DSMG structure, though reasonably accurate
methods are necessary to obtain reasonably accurate results.
         Characteristic 1 above describes DSMG granular composites in terms of groups of
particles of different sizes. It eliminates from the class of DSMG structures those structures
formed from unimodal size distributions of particles (only one particle group, as defined in
Characteristic 1), and reflects the requirement that a particle group have a minimum total volume
(relative to a given range of volumes) in order for that group of particles to contribute to the
formation of DSMG structural characteristics. It also requires that the ratio of larger to smaller
average particle size in adjacent particle groups not be too large. Characteristic 2 specifies one
structural feature possessed by DSMG structures. Characteristic 3 describes a method of
determining whether or not DSMG structural characteristics can be present in a granular
composite composed of particle groups with some physical characteristics specified, via
statistical measures of a structure's constituent particles. Characteristic 4 specifies structural
features exhibited by all DSMG structures, and a method of determining, using statistical
measures, whether or not DSMG structural features can be present in a granular composite
composed of particle groups with some physical characteristics specified. It eliminates from the
class of DSMG structures those granular composites that consist of only sets of smaller and
larger particles where the larger particles are more dilutely dispersed throughout the smaller
particles and only rarely very close to or in contact with one another.
         In addition to these 4 characteristics, all DSMG structures may exhibit one or more of the
following characteristics:
         A. Porosity less than 25% for a granular composite formed from only two groups of
particles, with groups defined as in Characteristic 1 above.
         B. Porosity less than 20% for a granular composite formed from three or more groups of
particles, with groups defined as in Characteristic 1 above.
         C. Hyperunifonnity or near-hyperuniformity, as described in the Definitions section,
while in its powder form without solvent, paste, liquid or gel between constituent particles.
         D. An increased probability of, between at least one pair of particle groups, at least one of
three roughly linear arrangements of the centers of mass of 3 particles, 2 particles from one
group and 1 from the other. The three possible roughly linear arrangements are, for a group of
                                                  24

   WO 2015/073081                                                               PCT/US2014/051468
particles of larger size and a group of particles of smaller size, large-large-small, large-small
large, or large-small-small. These clusters can be detected, for some composites, by observing
the granular composite's pair correlation function, which is accessible via scattering
experiments. An example of the detection of this feature is given in Figure 3, which is a
depiction of the pair correlation function of a binary mixture of spherical particles. For a
composite comprising groups of particles, with groups defined as in Characteristic 1 above,
where the particles within individual groups vary in size and shape, the pronounced peaks in pair
correlation function probability at distances representing linear clusters of 3 particles, 2 from one
group and 1 from another, will be flattened and rounded. In many DSMG structures, though this
clustering will be present in the structure, the feature in the pair correlation function, displayed in
Figure 3, will not be detectable due to this flattening and rounding.
        B.       Process to Produce the Composition of Matter
        We here describe a process to produce granular composites with reduced porosity,
reduced tendency to phase separate, and reduced viscosity, relative to those composites
commonly known to be capable of being produced, for particles within specified ratios of largest
volume particles to smallest volume particles. The composite structures produced often exhibit
some or all of the structural and other physical characteristics described in the previous section.
        It is generally known that granular composites can be produced with a variety of different
porosities. For example, considering different arrangements of same-size spherical particles,
mechanically stable composites can be constructed ranging from about 51% porosity to about
26% porosity. In this usage, "mechanically stable" means that the composite will withstand some
non-negligible stress or shear in any direction without collapsing, deforming, or expanding, and
therefore behaves like a solid over some range of stresses. However, the structures that realize
the upper (51%) and lower (26%) porosity bounds mentioned are highly-ordered, meaning that
exacting construction methods would be required to create structures realizing those porosities.
        Considering same-size roughly spherical particles that are mixed thoroughly by vibration
or shaking and that interact via friction and gravity, porosities of about 37% to 46% are common,
depending on the exact shapes of the particles and the frictional coefficients between them. This
"thoroughly mixed" composite is an important case to consider, because exact construction
methods are not practical or even possible given the extremely large numbers of particles in most
                                                 25

    WO 2015/073081                                                             PCT/US2014/051468
granular composites of interest. For example, only of handful of fine sand can contain over a
billion particles, and the time required to build a structure one particle at a time from such a
handful would be considerable.
        When considering granular composites comprising particles of many different sizes and
shapes, thoroughly-mixed, mechanically stable composite structures cover a broad range of
possible porosities. For example, experiments with particles with sizes that are roughly log
normally distributed, have yielded porosities (roughly) of up to 60% and as low as 15%,
depending on particle sizes, shapes, and frictional interactions, as well as the details of the
composite preparation, including, for example, whether or not the composite was vibrated at high
frequency or compacted. Log-normally distributed particle distributions are important for
practical applications because many manufacturing methods and natural processes produce
composites with log-normally distributed sizes. Examples of composites exhibiting roughly log
normal distributions of particle volumes include but are not limited to clods, dirt, sand, some
types of crushed rock, and some types of nanoparticles produced via flame or chemical methods.
        Research into concrete aggregate mixtures using cement, silica ash, sand and crushed
rock suggests that specifically tailored mixtures of roughly log-normally distributed constituents
can yield porosities as low as 15%. Most importantly though, for the lowest porosities to be
achieved, the largest particles must have a far greater volume than the smallest particles. For
example, in the research referenced, the largest particles have over 100 trillion times the volume
of the smallest particles. F. de Larrard, Concrete mixture proportioning,Routledge, New York
(1999).
         In the academic literature, hypothetical constructions of composites with nearly 0%
porosity are discussed. One way that this is theoretically accomplished is by creating a
continuous distribution of particle sizes, for example, a distribution of particle volumes with an
extremely large standard deviation, such that the smallest particles have volumes that are
miniscule compared to the volumes of the largest particles, on the order of the volume difference
between an atom and a boulder. In this way, when the size distribution is chosen correctly, void
spaces between larger particles can always be filled by smaller particles, and 0% porosity can be
approached (though never actually reached).
                                                 26

     WO 2015/073081                                                               PCT/US2014/051468
         Another theoretical way, discussed in academic literature, to substantially reduce porosity
is to use a discrete distribution of particle sizes, where the average volume of a particle in each
successively smaller grouping of particles is small enough so that the smaller particles can easily
fit through the spaces in the structure formed by larger particles. We term this the "discrete large
ratio" approach to reflect that the composite must consist of groups of particles where each group
exhibits a discrete average volume that is at minimum 10,000 times larger or smaller than all
other average volumes of each group of particles in the composite. An additional requirement of
these groups is that the standard deviation of particle volume distributions about the average
volume not be so large that particle sizes in different groups substantially overlap. The volume
ratio of 10,000 reflects a minimum size disparity necessary for smaller particles to fit into the
void spaces created by a mechanically stable structure of larger particles, and for small clusters
of these smaller particles not to form structures that interfere with the particle contacts between
larger particles. Such clusters are discussed, for the case of composites of frictionless binary
spheres, in A. B. Hopkins, F. H. Stillinger, and S. Torquato, Disorderedstrictlyjammed binary
sphere packings attain an anomalously large range of densities, Physical Review E 88, 022205
(2013).
         When employing the discrete large ratio approach to create composites with low porosity,
the volume of particles from each group must be chosen in precise ratios so that each
successively smaller group fills entirely the void space between the last larger group. For
example, considering four groups of low-friction spherical particles, each group consisting of
roughly same-size particles with 100,000 less volume than a particle in next larger group, a
mixture (by volume) of 64.5% largest particles, 23.6% second-largest, 8.6% third-largest, and
3.2% smallest particles could yield a structure with a porosity of about 2.5%. It is notable that in
this example, the volume of the largest particles is one quadrillion (one thousand trillion) times
that of the smallest particles.
         It is also notable that, if vibrated or mixed after settling in a gravitational environment,
particle groups in composites produced using the discrete large ratio approach will tend to phase
separate, with the smallest group of particles on the bottom, topped by the second smallest, and
so on finally with the largest group on top. This means that mixing or vibrating for increasing
time periods will lead to decreasing porosity of the composite, with final porosity approaching
                                                   27

    WO 2015/073081                                                             PCT/US2014/051468
37% for the example just-described using low-friction spherical particles with small particle
group standard deviations. This type of phase separation can sometimes be avoided, most
successfully when the ratio of larger to smaller average particle volumes between groups of
particles is as small as possible (for the discrete large ratio approach, the smallest such ratio is
roughly 10,000). In such cases, one way to avoid phase separation is by fabricating each larger
group of particles out of a material that is substantially denser than the previous smaller group.
Another way is to increase substantially the frictional interactions between particles, sometimes
for sub-micron particles via electrostatic or Van der Waals forces, though this will also increase
the overall composite porosity. Yet another approach to mitigate phase separation is to compact
the combined particle distribution from above, or to employ "up-down" rather than "left-right"
mixing. In general, the discrete large ratio approach described is not used in applications due to
a) the cost of fabricating particles that are very similar in size for each group, b) the difficulty in
fabricating particle groups where particles have volumes that are many trillions of times larger or
smaller than those particles in other groups, and c) the difficulty in overcoming particle phase
separation.
         It is not yet generally known among those skilled in the art or the general public that
another approach is possible to substantially reduce composite porosity, where this approach can
be applied to any set of several groups of particles exhibiting different size distributions, shapes,
frictional interactions, or other physical properties. This approach does not require individual
particle volume differences that are as large as in the discrete large ratio approach previously
described. Further, the composites produced by this approach do not phase separate nearly as
easily as those in the discrete large ratio approach previously described, in part because the
difference in particle volumes between groups is not as great. This latter approach, which is
described in detail herein, is termed the granular composite density enhancement process
(GCDEP).
         The GCDEP can be applied provided any two or more individual groups of granular
composites where fractions of each group, such that each fraction exhibits a passing curve that is
representative of its group, are intended to be combined in certain ratios. Each group can consist
of particles made from the same or different materials, and the shapes and physical
characteristics of the particles in a group can be the same or different. Generally, individual
                                                 28

    WO 2015/073081                                                            PCT/US2014/051468
groups of particles should exhibit only one local maximum of sufficient size in their passing
curve, or a single volume range over which local maxima of roughly comparable size are
present. When two or more local maxima are present in a grouping of particles, such that two or
more sufficiently-sized particle groups can be distinguished in the fashion described in
Characteristic 1 (see above) for some combination of volumes of particles from the sufficiently
sized groups, then the grouping should be segregated and considered as two or more groups such
that the segregation criteria explained in Characteristic 1 are met. The groups can be physically
divided according to these criteria as well. This concept is illustrated in Figure 4. If not
physically divided, then when mixing the undivided group with other groups, the undivided
group must be considered as several sufficiently sized groups where the volume ratios of
particles between sufficiently sized groups within the undivided group are fixed. Alternatively,
in two or more groupings of particles, each of which cannot be divided into more than one
sufficiently sized particle group, if the local maxima or range of volumes over which local
maxima occur overlap such that no combination of volumes from the two groups can form two
sufficiently sized groups, then these groups should be combined and considered as a single
group. This concept is illustrated in Figure 5. When considered and prepared in this way, the set
of all individual particles groups shall be said to be consistent with the "GCDEP group criteria".
         In this way, the GCDEP is distinct from other granular composite porosity (and
sometimes also viscosity) reduction processes that consider the combined volume distribution of
the entire granular composite, rather than mixing ratios of individual groups of particles.
Methods that approach mixing from the perspective of combined volume distributions are
common in many fields, including but not limited to high performance concrete mixture
proportioning. For example, many of the methods discussed in academic literature, including, for
example, in F. de Larrard, Concrete mixture proportioning,Routledge, New York (1999) and in
J. M. Schilstone, Concrete mixture optimization, Concrete International, 33-40, June (1990),
conclude that "gaps" placed in otherwise smooth volume distributions can increase porosity and
relative viscosity, whereas the GCDEP is based in part upon the idea that optimizing mixture
proportioning according to gap size decreases porosity and relative viscosity. In this and other
statements, "relative viscosity" refers to the case where a granular composite consists of particles
suspended in a fluid or other type of matrix material, where the relative viscosity is the viscosity
                                                 29

     WO 2015/073081                                                            PCT/US2014/051468
of the particles and matrix at fixed ratio of particles to matrix divided by the viscosity of the
matrix alone. Other approaches, including those discussed in M. N, Mangulkar and S. S. Jamkar,
Review ofparticlepacking theories usedfor concrete mix proportioning,International Journal
Of Scientific & Engineering Research 4, 143-148 (2013); F. de Larrard, Concrete optimization
with regard to packing density and rheology, 3rd RILEM international symposium on theology
of cement suspensions such as fresh concrete, France (2009); and in F. de Larrard, Concrete
mixture proportioning,Routledge, New York (1999), sometimes consider distinct groups of
particles, just as does the discrete large ratio approach. However, these approaches generally
favor combinations of groups such that the resulting composite does not meet the
maxima/minima size criteria discussed in Characteristic 1 (see above). When these composites
are not favored, the assumption is made, as it is in M. Kolonko, S. Raschdorf, and D. Wasch, A
hierarchicalapproach to simulate the packing density ofparticle mixtures on a computer,
Granular Matter 12, 629-643 (2010), that smaller particles will fit within the voids of a
mechanically stable structure formed by the larger particles, as is the case with the discrete large
ratio approach. However, this assumption is inaccurate with large error in porosity estimates
when average particle volumes of groups are in large to small ratios of less than 10,000, and
often leads to mixed composites that easily phase separate.
         Some approaches considering distinct groups attempt to correct for the inaccuracy in
assuming that large particles will fit within the voids of a mechanically stable structure formed
by the larger particles; however, these approaches 1) cannot accurately predict mixing ratios
between groups that yield the smallest porosities, and 2) are not based on knowledge of the
 structures produced by the GCDEP and use instead, for example, inaccurate "virtual" structures,
 such as discussed in F. de Larrard, Concrete optimization with regardto packing density and
rheology, 3rd RILEM international symposium on rheology of cement suspensions such as fresh
 concrete, France (2009); and in F. de Larrard, Concrete mixture proportioning,Routledge, New
York (1999). These "correcting" approaches are fundamentally distinct from than the GCDEP,
 and they indicate different mixture proportioning than does the GCDEP. For example, the
 approaches most often indicate that to produce low-porosity structures, very large gaps must be
 present between particle groups, i.e., the ratio of large to small average particle volumes between
 groups will be large. When large to small average particle volumes are smaller than 10,000, these
                                                  30

    WO 2015/073081                                                           PCT/US2014/051468
approaches favor combinations of particles such that the passing curve of the resulting composite
do not meet the maxima/minima size criteria discussed in Characteristic 1 (see above).
Consequently, the predicted porosities and relative viscosities of the favored composites are
much higher than could be achieved using the GCDEP. For example, the compressible packing
model of de Larrard is known to overestimate the porosity of many granular composites
including those consisting of two or more particle groups of roughly spherical particles, as noted
in E. P. Koehler, D. W. Fowler, E. H. Foley, G. J. Rogers, S. Watanachet, and M. J. Jung, Self
consolidatingconcrete for precaststructuralapplications:mixture proportions,workability, and
early-age hardenedproperties, Center for Transportation Research, Project 0-5134-1 (2008).
This is also true of linear packing models and extensions of these models to non-spherical
particles, as discussed in A. B. Yu, R. P. Zou, and N. Standish, Modifying the linearpacking
modelforpredictingthe porosity of nonsphericalparticle mixtures, Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 35,
3730-3741 (1996).
         Using the GCDEP, as the examples in this document demonstrate, contrary to the
conclusions of some others, "gaps" in combined volume distributions of granular composites
lead to far lower porosities and relative viscosities than lack of gaps, when the size of the gaps
and volume ratios of individual groups mixed to form those composites are chosen carefully. The
examples also demonstrate that, using the GCDEP, porosity reductions and reductions in relative
viscosity can be achieved, over a given range of particles sizes, that are greater than those that
can be achieved by both: 1) approaches that make the assumption that smaller particles fall
within the voids of a mechanically stable structure formed by the larger particles, and 2)
approaches that attempt to correct the error introduced by the assumption that smaller particles
fall within the voids of a mechanically stable structure formed by the larger particles. The
GCDEP is able to accomplish these reductions via a novel approach designed to encourage the
production of DSMG structures.
         Particle volume probability density functions for the constituents of any granular
composite can be easily experimentally determined in many different ways. One way is via
standard sieving, which is useful for many types of particles generally ranging in size from the
micron to centimeter scales. For smaller particles, distributions can be determined using scanning
electron microscopes and image analysis techniques, or by using special small-particle sieves, or
                                                31

    WO 2015/073081                                                            PCT/US2014/051468
by desktop centrifuges. The sieve and centrifuge methods, along with others not described here,
can also be used to separate particles, should separation (or combination) be required to meet the
"GCDEP group criteria" described previously. The exact procedure used to determine volume
distributions is not relevant to the GCDEP, except insofar as increased accuracy in the procedure
can result in decreased porosity and relative viscosity when using the process.
         Hereafter, we refer to a granular composite made by combining different amounts of
particles from two different groups where the groups are consistent with the GCDEP group
criteria as a bimodall" composite, a composite made from three different groups consistent with
the criteria as a "trimodal" composite, four sets as "quadramodal", etc. This concept is most
usefully applied, in terms of decreasing the porosity of the granular composite comprising a
combination of different amounts of particles from the individual groups, when there is little
overlap between any two volume probability density functions (or passing curves) of individual
groups of particles. However, the GCDEP can just as easily be applied when there is significant
overlap between individual distributions, even though the result will generally be that the
porosity of the combined set of particles is higher.
         At its core, the GCDEP allows, provided a set comprising two or more particles groups
conforming to the GCDEP group criteria, the combination of these groups, in specified relative
ratios of volumes, so as to achieve low porosities and relative viscosities, including a method of
calculating, within experimental accuracies, those porosities. In this usage as before, "relative
viscosity" refers to the relative viscosity of a granular composite of particles including a matrix
material filling the voids between constituents, where the ratio of constituents to matrix material
is fixed.
         However, the GCDEP can additionally be used, in conjunction with optimization
methods, to select, from a set of three or more groups of particles that conforms to the GCDEP
group criteria, the subset of groups of particles that minimizes or nearly-minimizes porosity and
relative viscosity, given all possible combinations of subsets of groups from the set. This Section
includes descriptions of the steps involved in the GCDEP and examples of the actual application
of these steps to groups of particles. The following Section includes a description and examples
of methods to select a subset of groups from a set of three or more particle groups so that, using
                                                  32

    WO 2015/073081                                                           PCT/US2014/051468
the GCDEP, porosity for the set considering all subsets of groups of particles will be minimized
or nearly-minimized.
         C.   Improving the Accuracy of the GCDEP
         When creating a low-porosity granular composite, before employing the GCDEP, the
available particulate materials that will comprise the granular composite can be identified. For
example, in creating an ink to be used in a 3D printing process, it is generally known of what
initial material the final printed part will be made. Examples include pure elements like
Titanium, alloys such as stainless steel and Ti 6-4, cermets like Titanium Carbide or Gallium
Nitride, and mixed-phase composites such as sand/aluminum. Once the details have been
established concerning what materials are available, a plan can be developed for how to mix
them. It is important to note that the GCDEP does not proscribe what materials be used, but only
how, once chosen, in what approximate proportions they should be mixed to obtain reduced
porosities and relative viscosities.
         Certain knowledge is useful for the GCDEP. This knowledge includes the approximate
volume probability density functions (or passing curves) of the chosen group or groups of
particles, which is necessary so that groups of particles can be confirmed to conform to the
GCDEP group criteria. Alternatively, as described previously, groups of particles can be
separated or combined such that the final set of groups conforms to the GCDEP group criteria.
For example, in cases of a particle group that exhibits a volume distribution spanning a large
range of particle sizes, this group can be divided into two or more different groups by removing
certain sizes of particles, such that each new particle group is separated from other groups by
gaps and such that the groups in the new set conform to the GCDEP group criteria. It is
important to note that when these steps are taken, the more accurate the volume distributions, the
more accurate will be the GCDEP mixing ratios, and therefore the lower the possible porosity
 and relative viscosities that can be achieved.
         When using lookup tables or algorithms to complete Step 1 of the GCDEP (discussed in
more detail below) rather than direct experimentation, further information above and beyond
 volume distributions of the particle groups are required. This information includes details about
particle geometry and frictional (or other, e.g., electrostatic, Van-der-Waals) interactions
between particles, as well as how the particles will be mixed (e.g., loosely mixed under gravity
                                                 33

     WO 2015/073081                                                            PCT/US2014/051468
or compacted, vibrated, shaken, etc.). For most known materials, this information can be found
in the relevant literature, or approximations of this information can be calculated. Exact
information is not necessary for the GCDEP to be applied, but more accurate information
generally leads to reduced porosities and viscosities of the final granular composite developed
using the GCDEP.
         For sets comprising three or more particle groups conforming to the GCDEP group
criteria, before the GCDEP can be applied, the super-set of all subsets of the set of particle
groups must be provided, according to the following definitions of subset and super-set. A subset
 {j} consists of, over a range [V, Vr] in volume such that Vr/V   = 10,000, all particle groups with
group average particle volume included in the range [V, Vr], where {j} requires that it is the
"largest" subset "i", i.e., such that there are no subsets with more particle groups than {j} that
also include all of the particle groups included in {j};. By this definition, a particle group can
belong to more than one subset. The super-set {i} of all subsets {j} consists of all unique largest
subsets of particle groups. This concept is illustrated in Figure 6. Thus, for a set composed of
three of more groups of particles, the present invention contemplates criteria for dividing the set
of particle groups into subsets consistent with the GCDEP group criteria.
         D.      The GCDEP Steps
         The GCDEP steps can be summarized for one embodiment as follows:
 1. Determine the relative volumes in which the groups of particles within a subset will be
 combined so as to reduce porosity. This can be accomplished via use of computational
 simulation, experimentation, or lookup tables. Examples of all three cases are provided below.
2. Considering the information determined in Step 1 on subsets of particles (subset is defamed
 explicitly in the previous section), calculate, according to a formula described here, therelative
volumes in which the groups of particles within the entire set can be combined to reduce
porosity, including the calculation of the approximate porosity achieved.
         Importantly, Step 2 is not required when particle groups form only a single subset, and
 when subsets do not overlap in terms of particle groups. However, even with multiple subsets
 that overlap in terms of particle groups, rather than use the above-described Step 2 of the
 GCDEP, simulations, data tables, or experimentation can be undertaken (as in Step 1) to find
 minimal porosity structures.
                                                  34

    WO 2015/073081                                                              PCT/US2014/051468
         Referring now to the steps in more detail, the first required step of the GCDEP process is
to determine, for a set of particle groups conforming to the GCDEP group criteria, the relative
volumes at which particle groups within each subset are mixed to minimize the porosity. This
can be accomplished experimentally using a well-designed experiment, or via lookup tables or
computer simulation, assuming that the volume distributions, rough particle shapes, and
frictional interaction between particles are known. The use of one computer simulation to
determine the minimal porosity of two particle groups where each group consists of a single size
of frictionless spheres is described in the work of Hopkins, Stillinger, and Torquato (cited
above). The computer simulation algorithm used in Hopkins, Stillinger and Torquato can also
simulate three or more particles groups, and it can take into account non-spherical particles of
any shape and fictional interaction, though including more particle groups and highly aspherical
shapes increases computational time. The TJ algorithm is described in more detail in the
Definitions section.
         Using the volume probability density function of the particle groups, in some cases, it is
possible to approximately calculate, with little error, the relative group volumes at which the
minimum in porosity occurs using the discrete large ratio approach. This is the case, generally, 1)
when the ratio of average particle volumes between groups of larger to smaller particles is at
least 10,000, and 2) when, for mixtures of relative volumes of the groups that correspond to the
minimum in porosity, the integral in the combined volume distribution of both groups, over the
range of volume where each individual volume distribution is greater than about 3%, includes no
more than about 10% of the total volume of both groups of particles. It is important to note that
the numbers 3% and 10% in these "overlap integration guidelines" are not intended to be exact
boundaries. Instead, the intent in this approximate description is to estimate, based on existing
data, when two groups of particles can be treated using the discrete large ratio approach.
         If the discrete large ratio approach can be employed, then the mixing of two groups of
particles will not result in structures that clearly exhibit some or all of the distinct characteristics
of DSMG structures described earlier. However, the possibility of phase separation will need to
be considered, as phase separation occurs more often and more easily at greater ratios of average
particle volumes. In the case of no phase separation, the total packing fraction (, (equal to one
minus porosity) in the discrete large ratio approach is easily calculated as, (,   =  PL   (1- ipL)*qs,
                                                  35

    WO 2015/073081                                                              PCT/US2014/051468
with PL the packing fraction of the particle set including only larger volume particles and qps the
packing fraction of the particle set including only smaller volume particles. The relative volume
of particles from the smaller set xs follows, as xs  = ((1- QL,* QS& (t, and from the larger set as xL
=1-XS = LQt
        Experimentation can also be used to find the relative volumes of particle groups within a
subset at which the minimal porosity will occur, though for subsets comprising three or more
particle groups, experimentation can be tedious and time consuming. Considering first only two
groups of particles, one experimental procedure to determine relative volumes at which groups
are mixed to obtain porosity minima will be described. It is important to note that the GCDEP
does not require that this procedure be used; rather, any experimental procedure to determine
porosity minima can be used. However, the extent of the porosity and relative viscosity
reductions of the granular composite will depend on the accuracy of the procedure employed; for
this reason, it is helpful to conduct the experiment very carefully in order to ensure accuracy.
        In one such procedure, a container capable of very accurately measuring volumes and an
accurate scale are required. For high accuracy, the container must measure in length and width
(or diameter), and height at least 100 times the average longest linear extent of particles in the
larger set of particles. Additionally, when measuring the volume of particles, enough particles
must be placed in the container such that the measured height of the fill is at least 100 times the
average longest linear extent of particles in the larger group. This is due to the effects of the
boundary walls on the composite, as smaller particles will accumulate in large numbers in the
spaces against the walls in which the large particles cannot be placed, and larger particles can
accumulate on top of the composite.
        For example, consider the set of two particle groups, the larger with elongated particles
and average volume 125 times that of the smaller, and both with standard deviations of less than
 10% of their mean volume. If the ratio of volumes at which these sets are mixed to obtain
minimal porosity is 25% smaller, 75% larger in a cylindrical container with diameter and height
 1000 times that of the largest linear extent of the largest particles in the composite, then if a
container is used with a diameter of only 10 times the largest linear extent of the largest particles
in the composite, the minimal porosity will be increased and the mixing ratios found to produce
this porosity will be approximately 70% larger particles, 30% smaller particles. This rough
                                                  36

    WO 2015/073081                                                              PCT/US2014/051468
approximation is based on the assumption that near a boundary wall, within one half the length
of the average largest extent of the larger particles, the composite will contain by volume 50%
particles from the larger set, 50% particles from the smaller set. In reality, this is a very coarse
approximation, as the actual effect of the boundary, due to spatial correlations between particles
in mechanically stable granular composites, has a substantial effect significantly farther from the
boundary than one half the length of the average largest extent of the larger particles.
Additionally, smaller and larger particle shape, frictional interactions between particles, and
frictional interactions between particles and the boundaries will also play a role in boundary
effects, as well as the method in which particles are placed in the container. The best way to
reduce the relative effect of the boundaries is therefore to increase the relative volume to surface
ratio of the container, by making the container larger and filling it with more volume of particles.
         Once the containers have been selected, the zero-porosity average densities of the
individual particles in each set (the density calculated by excluding void space from volume in
the density denominator) should be obtained. There are numerous ways to accomplish this,
particularly if the particle materials are known and their properties can be looked up in the
literature. The method whereby the densities are determined is not important to the GCDEP, but
large errors in density will result in larger porosities and relative viscosities when particle groups
are mixed.
         Using density data, the porosity of each individual particle group should be determined.
This can be accomplished in many ways, including but not limited to by placing the container on
the scale, taking account of its mass, then filling the container with particles from a single group
to a height at least 100 times the average longest linear extent of the particles in that group. The
 difference in mass between the container with particles and the container without particles,
 divided by the volume of the particles in the container, divided by the average density of
 individual particles in the group, is the packing fraction (equal to one minus the porosity). This
measurement should be repeated many times and the results averaged to obtain higher statistical
 accuracy.
         When performing volume and mass measurements using the scale and container, great
 care must be taken to prepare each composite structure in approximately the same fashion as the
 previous. This fashion should reflect the final application in which the granular composite is
                                                 37

    WO 2015/073081                                                             PCT/US2014/051468
expected to be used, because composite preparation can strongly affect porosity. For example, if
in the final application the granular composite will be compacted, then the preparation should
include a compaction step. If in the final application the granular composite will be placed in a
solvent, then a solvent should be added (and appropriate calculations to reflect the mass of this
solvent taken into account).
         This approach should be repeated, except now considering mixtures of the two particle
groups. Again, care should be taken such that the mixing of the two particle groups reflects the
mixing that will occur in the final application of the composite. One can start with only particles
from the larger group, then mix in increasing mass of particles from the smaller group, or start
with particles from the smaller group and mix in increasing mass of particles from the larger
group. The volume fraction of the granular composite should be calculated after each step of
adding a small amount of mass of particles to the mixture and remixing in the initial mixing
fashion. Smaller increments of mass will result in a more accurate determination of the ratio at
which maximum density occurs. In this case, the volume fraction is equal to the sum of the zero
porosity volumes of the particles from each group according to their masses in the container,
divided by the volume of the mixed composite in the container. For each group of particles, the
zero-porosity volumes are calculated as the mass of the particles in the container divided by the
zero-porosity average densities of the particles in that group. This entire experiment should be
repeated many times and the results averaged in order to obtain higher statistical accuracy.
         Plotting the curve of packing fractions as a function of the relative volume of particles
from either the smaller or larger particle group yields a distinct maximum (where relative volume
at each point is calculated as the zero-porosity volume of the particles from a single group
according to its mass in the container divided by the sum of zero-porosity volumes of both
groups according to their masses in the containers). The granular composites at and around this
maximum will have structures exhibiting some or all of the characteristics of DSMG structures,
as described above. Generally, mixtures with up to about 10% less absolute relative small
particle group volume fraction than the maximum, and about 30-50% greater absolute relative
small particle group volume fraction from the maximum, will exhibit some or all of the DSMG
structural characteristics. The exact distance in units of absolute relative small particle group
volume fraction less than or greater than the maximum at which these features are detectable
                                                38

     WO 2015/073081                                                               PCT/US2014/051468
depends on the size and shape of particles, on volume distributions, on mixing methods, and on
frictional interactions between particles.
         If more than two groups of particles are to be considered, the experimental procedure just
described can be performed using combinations of particles from three or more groups. This will
take significantly more time, but one trained in the art can reduce this time by focusing on
relative volume fractions, informed by the experiments on pairs of particle groups, that appear
most likely to yield local maxima in density. In the case of three or more groups, more than one
local maxima in density can occur; identifying the largest of these maxima will enable larger
reductions in overall composite porosity and relative viscosity.
         Once the relative volumes that yield porosity minima for all subsets is determined, the
relative volume ratios in which sets should be combined to yield DSMG structures of low
porosity and relative viscosity can be determined to good approximation using a simple
technique. This technique is the second step of the GCDEP, though it is NOT a mandatory step,
as division into subsets is not strictly necessary; this step simply allows a quick and fairly
accurate approximation in order to save time. When there is only a single subset of particle
groups, this second step is entirely unnecessary, and when there is no overlap between subsets,
i.e., no two subsets contain the same particle group, then this second step is mathematically
trivial (though still very accurate).
         In this technique, the following notation will be used: the super-set of all subsets is {i},
where the particle group with the largest average particle volume belongs to set i=1, and where
of all remaining subsets (excluding particle groups belonging only to set 1), the subset with the
particle group having the largest average particle volume is set i=2, and so on. The subset of all
particle groups included in each set "i" is {j} , where the 'j" are the particle groups such that the
 largest group isj=1, the next largestj=2, and so on. So if subset 2 includes the second, third, and
 fourth largest groups of particles, then {2,3,4}2 is the notation for this set. The fraction of space.
 occupied by each particle group in a subset, as found from Step 1 of the GCDEP via mixing
 experiments, simulation, lookup tables, or other means, is oij, and, along with the void space,
 each subset "i" of particles obeys: 1 =           pi,, with (Pi, the fraction of space occupied by
                                                +Yipij
 voids and the summation running over all 'j" in subset {J}1 . It is important to note that the (pi
 employed in the second step of the GCDEP need not be the pig that occur at the minimum in
                                                  39

    WO 2015/073081                                                            PCT/US2014/051468
porosity for mixing of the subset "i". However, for the technique to be accurate, the pu used for
 each subset "i" must fall on the actual mixing curve (or surface) as determined in Step 1 of the
 GCDEP. As previously discussed, DSMG structures can be formed for a range of pij values
 away from the (p values that yield the minimum in porosity, and the second step of the GCDEP
generally accommodates this range of values.
         A qualitative overview of the technique is as follows. When considering the combination
of a pair of subsets with overlap between particle groups, some particle groups will "interact"
because they are close enough in size, while the particles from the smallest particle groups in the
smaller subset will behave as if the particles from the largest particle groups in the larger subset
are merely the boundaries of a confined space, i.e., these groups are "non-interacting". With this
in mind, there are volumes of free space, bounded by the largest particle groups, that are
available to be filled only by the particles from the smallest particle groups. In the notation
following, these volumes end in subscript index "1", i.e., for subscripts {ai} and subset "i", these
volumes are denoted V(ai,a 2,...,a(1 2 , a(gi_),1).
         The number of volume spaces in each subset associated with terms in calculations of
particle group final volume fraction follows a Fibonacci sequence. The first subset calculations
require only one volume, labeled VO (Vo should be equal to the volume of the space to be packed,
which in volume fraction terms is written Vo = 1). The second subset requires two volumes, Voo
and Vol, the third subset three volumes, the fourth five volumes, the fifth eight volumes, and so
on according to the Fibonacci sequence. In binary subscript notation, the number of subscripts
indicates the subset number "i"; the term "0" indicates the volume available (and occupied) by
all of the particle groups in subset "i", and the term "I" indicates the volume available to only
the smallest particle groups in subset "i", i.e., the groups that belong to subset "i" and not to "i
1". Additionally, a subscript label "1" cannot be adjacent to another subscript "1", as the volume
available only to the smallest particles in a subset cannot contain, for the next subset "i + 1",
"additional" volume available only to the smallest particles in the "i + 1" subset. Following these
rules in writing subscripts means that the number of volume terms in subset "i" corresponds to
the "i + 1" Fibonacci number. For example, the fourth subset contains the 5 volumes Voooo,
Voio0 , Voo1o, Voici, and Voooi, and "5" is the fifth Fibonacci number. Figure 8 is an illustration of
the calculation of these volumes for subsets {1,2}1, {2,3}2, {3,4,5}3, {5,6,7,8}4, and {8,9}5.
                                                    40

    WO 2015/073081                                                                            PCT/US2014/051468
          For this technique, the porosities of single particle groups (without mixing) P are
sometimes required. Additionally, in certain cases for certain subsets containing three or more
particle groups, information concerning mixtures of particle groups excluding the larger group or
larger groups from that subset can be required. This requirement is described in Step 3 below. In
the following described technique, the quantities (p represent the volume fraction of total space
that the particles from a given particle group will occupy in the final composite mixture. This
technique tends to be slightly more accurate when each successive pair of subsets shares either
no particle groups or only a single particle group between them. Consequently, these cases will
be discussed first, and the case where any two subsets share multiple particle groups described
subsequently as a special case.
          The technique is as follows:
          1) Starting with the first subset i = 1, set the q1 for all 'J" in subset 1 equal to (ph.
          2) When particle groups are shared between subsets, calculate all volumes V{a,} for the
next subset, i.e., V00 and Vol for the second subset i = 2.
          a. For any volume with last two subscripts "a(-1 ), ai" ending in "0,0", V{a1,a 2,...a(-2),0,0}
   V(aI,a 2 ,...a(.2),0} * ((i-.)j    / 9,), where 'j" here refers to the particle group that is shared by
both subsets "i" and "i - 1". For example, if i = 4 for adjacent subsets {4,5,6}3 and {6,7,8,9}4,
then Voooo     = Vooo   * ((P3,6 / 746), and V0100 = V010      (P3, / 94,6). If V{ai,a 2,... a-2), 0,0) is greater than
 Vfai,a, ...a(1 2),0}, then calculate V'{a1,a2 , ...a(-2),0,0}         V{ai,a 2 ,...a(_2),0} and calculate
 V'{ai,a2 , ...a(-2),0} = V'{ai,a 2,...a(-2),0,0} / V{a1,a 2,...a(-2),0,0}. Use V'{ai,a 2,...a(-2),0} and
 V'{aa, a.a_2),0,0}
            ..               in place of V{al,a2,  ...a(.2),0)  and V(a1, a2, ... a(-2),0,0), respectively, in all
subsequent calculations, and recalculate any other volumes requiring V{ai,a2,...a -2), 0), using
 V'{a , a,...
         2     a(-2), 0) in its place.
          b. For any volume with last two subscripts "a( 1 ), ai" ending in "1,0", V{ai,a 2 ,...a(-2),1,0)
 = V{ai,a 2,...a(.2),1), assuming there are no particle groups belonging only to subset "i - 1". If
there are, then the fractions of space occupied by a minimal porosity mixture of all particle
groups that belong to subset "i - 1" but NOT to subset "i" must be known. These fractions are
written pjj, and are used to calculate V{ai,a 2,...a(1-2),1,0) as V{ai,a 2 ,...a(- 2),1,0)           =  V{az,a 2,...a_
2),1}  * (i       / g) where 'j" refers to the particle group shared by both subsets "i" and "i - 1.
For example, for "i = 4" and subsets {2,3,4}2, {4,5,6}3, and {6,7,8,9}4, V0010                    =  V001 - (P3,6 /(4,6),
                                                           41

    WO 2015/073081                                                                              PCT/US2014/051468
where (P,     6 represents the volume fraction of particle group 6 that minimizes the porosity of a
mixture of particle groups 5 and 6.
           c. For any volume with last two subscripts "a (-), at" ending in "0,1", V{a,..,a(-2), 0,1}                   =
 Vfaia, .,a(- 2),0} * (1 -              - V{az, ... ,a(-2), 0,0}, where the summation over p9(_)j includes all
9(p-1)j  such that particle group 'j" belongs to subset "i - 1" but not to subset "i". For example, if i
   4 for subsets {2,3,4}2, {4,5,6}3, and {6,7,8,9}4, then V010 = V010 * (1 - P,4 - P3,5) - V0100.
           3) For any negative volumes Va;,a2,..., ag-1),1), adjustments must be made to the pig
found in the first step of the GCDEP. Two options are possible: the first generally results in
slightly lower overall porosities than the second, and the second generally in relatively reduced
phase separation.
           a. Reduce (p     g'-t),
                               =x) too (          ,    where p '(_-),g   ; is defined as the value such that the
smallest volume Vfa1,a 2 ,...,a(-       1 }, of subset "i" is zero, and where particle group "j = x" belongs
to both subsets "i" and "i - 1". Using 9 '(iz}, in place of the (p(ij-),, recalculate all volumes V{a}
for subset "i", and proceed using the p'(i1)j in place of the p(I1)j for all future calculations.
           b. For the calculations of volumes in subset "i", but NOT for other volume calculations,
reduce proportionally all       9p(i-1)  to p '(i-I);, where the p'(i1), are defined as the values such that the
smallest volume Vfai, a 2,..a(i-]),1} is zero, and where the particle groups 'j" are all groups that
belong to subset "i -1" but NOT to subset "i". Using the                   '(iJ),j in place of the 9_(i-1)j, recalculate
all volumes V{an} for subset "i". If this step is taken, when calculating pi for subsets "i - 1" and
"i -2", the reduced (p'(i-]), must be used.
           4) Repeat steps 2) and 3) until volumes for all subsets have been calculated.
           5) Calculate the pj for each particle group 'j" using the volumes Vfan). In the following
formulae, it is assumed that the p 'i discussed in Step 3 are substituted for the pij where
indicated. For each subset "i" beginning with "i                = 1", for the particle groups '"" that do not
belong to any "i" smaller than the subset "i" considered,
           a. For particle groups in subsets "i" such that there arc no particle groups belonging only
to subset "i", 9p= pij *ZV(a1,a 2,.,aiJ),0} + p9+;              ,      V{aj,a,    ... , a_, 1}, where the first sum is
over all V{aJ,a 2 ,...,a-  1 , aj} for "i" that do NOT end in subscript "1" and the second is over all
 V{a1,a 2 ,.,aj-), aj} that end in the subscript "1". If there are no subsets with index greater than
"i", then the value (1 - P) is substituted for 9(+1) in the second term of the equation. For
                                                             42

    WO 2015/073081                                                                         PCT/US2014/051468
example, for i = 4 and subsets {2,3,4}2, {4,5,6}3, {6,7}4, {7,8,9}5, 97                = P4,7 - (Voooo + V0100 +
V0010)  +  Ps,7* (V0001  +  V010 ). If in the previous example subset 5 were not to be mixed, then (P7
94,7 (Voooo + V0 100 + V0010) + (I - P 7)      * (V0001 + V010 1).
         b. For particle groups in subsets "i" where there are particle groups 'J" that belong only
to subset "i", 9p  = 9pj *EV(a,a 2,..., a(_I), 0} + 9pi- * EV{az, a2 , . .. ,a(_-), 1}, where the po-j are the
same as those calculated in Step 2b), i.e., the fractions of space occupied by a minimal porosity
mixture of all particle groups that belong to subset "i - 1" but NOT to subset "i". For example,
for i = 4 and subsets {2,3,4}2, {4,5,6}3, and {6,7,8,9}4, 97, p8, and (9 are calculated as, 97               =  94,7
* (Voooo + V0100 + Voo1o) + 94'7 * (Voooi + Voo 1 ), 98        = 94,8   (O 000 + V0100 + Vo6o) + 94,8 * (V0001
+ Voioi), and 99 = 94 9 . (Voooo + V0100 + Voo 1o) + 94,9 * (VoooI + V0101).
          6) When no particle groups are shared between subsets, the super set of all subsets can be
subdivided into sets of subsets within which each subset shares particle groups with at least one
other particle group in the set. For example, {1, 2 }1, {2,3}2, {4,5,6}3, {6,7}4, {8}5, can be divided
into three sets, {1,2}i, {2,3}2; {4 ,5, 6 }1, {6,7}2; and {8 11, each with its own set of volumes for
each subset "i", (V1){an), (V2){an}, (V3){a,), calculated in the manner described in steps 1)
through 6) above. The only difference is that while (V1)o = 1, (V2)o is set equal to one minus the
total porosity of the particle groups belonging to set 1, (V3)o is set equal to one minus the total
porosity of the particle groups belonging to sets 1 and 2, etc.. Using the previous example, (V2)o
=  1 - p - 92 - 93, and (V3)o = 1 - 91 - 92 - 93 - 94 - 95 - 96 - 97 = V20 - 94 - 95 -96
97.
          When more than two particle groups overlap between subsets, a modification to Steps 2a
and 2b of the above 6-step technique is necessary. The modification is straightforward; when
calculating volumes for subset "i", instead of multiplying by (9((i-)j / (ij) (Step 2a) or (9P(i)'y /
  ia,)(Step 2b), a general reduction factor taking into account all overlapping group volume
fractions pij and p(i   I), must be used. For example, for groupsj, j2 overlapping between subsets
"i" and "i - 1", an average of the volume fractions of the overlapping groups, (9(-1),p + P(i-),j2) /
(pij' + pig2) (Step 2a) or ((p-17yi     + 9(i-1),2) / (pij +    9ig2) (Step 2b), can be employed in place of
the original factor (p9(j),j / (p9) (Step 2a) or (V(i.    ',V / pij) (Step 2b), respectively. The average can
extend to three or more overlapping groups as well. Alternatively, if the large to small average
volume fraction of two overlapping groups is large, for example, greater than 1,000, then the fact
                                                       43

    WO 2015/073081                                                               PCT/US2014/051468
that they both overlap can be ignored, and, for the purposes of the volume calculation, it can be
assumed that the group with larger average particle size does not belong to subset "i". For
example, given groups {1, 2 ,3 }1 and {2,3,4}2, the factor (1,3    / pa) can be used to calculate V00 .
Ignoring the overlap in this case will result in a small decrease in accuracy in the final calculated
porosity.
         For all other Steps in the 6-step technique described above, any language applying to a
single overlapping group can be extended to apply to all overlapping groups. For example, if
using an average of volume fractions to calculate the reduction factor, then in Step 2c for i = 4
and subsets {3,4}2, {4,5,6}3, and {5,6,7}4, V0101    = V010 * (1 - P3) - Vo1 oo rather than Voo = Voo
* (1 - P3 - V3,5) - Vooo, as groups 5 and 6 belong both to subset 3 and subset 4. However, if
assuming that only group 6 overlaps, then V0101 = V010 ( (P3,4  -     P-  3,5) - Voloo, as before.
         E.      Methods for Choosing Particle Groups to Minimize Porosity
         In many practical circumstances, available materials in particle form can be divided into a
large number of groups, or there are a large number of available groups of particles from which a
composite can be forced. For example, in concrete manufacture, there are often as many as 10
50 different types of aggregate conveniently located in quarries or other aggregate production
facilities near a job site. Or, in additive manufacturing, powder materials of a certain molecular
composition can be made (or ordered) to meet specific average particle volume and standard
deviation criteria. Generally, when many groups of particles with average volumes within a
small ratio range are available, for example, 10 groups available with largest to smallest average
volume ratio of 1,000,000, using all possible groups to compose a granular composite will not
yield the lowest porosity. In these cases, it is important to choose the right groups in order to
achieve low porosities.
         Some "rule of thumb" criteria for choosing particle groups include a) choose adjacent
groups with large to small average particle volume ratios greater than 25 but less than 2,000, b)
where possible, choose groups with smaller relative standard deviations (e.g., groups with
arithmetic standard deviations less than 30% of average particle volume, particularly when the
large to small average particle volume ratios of adjacent particle groups are small), and c) choose
                                                  44

    WO 2015/073081                                                             PCT/US2014/051468
groups with higher average sphericity, and when mixing methods will not include compaction or
vibration steps, with smaller group coefficient of static friction.
         The first criteria (a) reflects a balance between reducing porosity and reducing tendency
to phase separate. When mixing different particle groups, both porosity and the tendency to
phase separate are strongly dependent on a variety of factors. However, adjacent particle groups
with smaller large to small average particle volume ratios tend to phase separate far less easily,
but form less dense structures, while particle groups with larger large to small average volume
ratios tend to phase separate more easily but form denser structures when not separated. The
second criteria (b) reflects the difference between continuous particle distributions and adjacent
sufficiently sized particle groups; if particle groups are not distinct as described by the GCDEP
group criteria, these groups tend to pack less densely when mixed. The third criteria (c) reflects a
general guideline for mixing multiple groups of particles: groups of highly angular, apsherical
particles require both larger large to small average particle volume ratios and particularly careful
preparation to mix into composites with reduced porosities; it is more simple to achieve low
porosities when using spherical particles with low coefficients of static friction.
         Balancing granular composite porosity with other desired physical characteristics,
including but not limited to relative viscosity and tendency to phase separate, requires substantial
knowledge of particle groups' physical characteristics, physical interactions, size distributions,
particle geometry, method of mixing, and potentially other factors as well. However, given
substantial knowledge of some or all of these critical factors, the choice of which particle groups
to mix in order to achieve desired results (including, for example, finding the minimal porosity
structure that won't phase separate under certain applications given a fixer upper limit on relative
viscosity) can be made by considering particle group mixing as an optimization problem.
         Provided a superset of particle groups that conform to the GCDEP group criteria, the first
step of the GCDEP process can be used in conjunction with optimization methods to minimize
the porosity of a granular composite composed of a subset of the particle groups. This approach
is aided by the division of the superset of particle groups into subsets, an example of which is
illustrated in Figure 6, and by knowledge of the porosities of the subsets, mixed as they will be
mixed for the application of the granular composite, as a function of relative volumes of each
                                                   45

    WO 2015/073081                                                                 PCT/US2014/051468
group in the mixture. For a given subset "i" containing N particle groups 'j", these porosities can
be written as Pj(pigj, pi... (pi) for volume fractions (Pign
         Given these porosity functions Pi(piji, pij2... (ijy), the problem of choosing groups
becomes a nonlinear programming problem in a number of variables equal to Ei(Ni - 1), where
the sum is over all subsets "i" and the "minus 1" term is due to the fact that given the porosity Pi
and "Ni - 1" of q91n, the last of the pijn can be determined. Those familiar in the art can construct
the objective function of the programming problem using the 6-step approximation technique
described above or any other accurate subset combination technique that is devised. Standard
constraints can be included in the problem, for example,        qjpn > = 0, or to reduce phase separation,
any pij, can be set so that it is greater than, by any amount, the pij, corresponding to the
minimum in porosity. Constraints can also be set to incorporate Step 3 of the 6-step
approximation technique. Any accurate programming technique, including but not limited to
Augmented Lagrangian, Quasi-Newton, Barrier, Conjugate Gradient, etc., can be used on its own
or in conjunction with other methods to obtain reduced porosity solutions. In using these
methods, for large numbers of particle groups, it is likely that many of the volume fractions qijn
will be zero whenever =jn, indicating that group '" is not included in the final composite. This
non-zero volume fractions 9ij, indicate the groups that should be included in the final composite.
         Partial knowledge of Pi(pij1,pij2... (oijN) over the range of interest in the pijn for each
subset often requires time-consuming methods to obtain. However, this knowledge is not
generally necessary for the optimization method. Rather, it is more practical when the number of
particle groups in a subset "i" is large to obtain partial subset porosity functions Pj2(pqg, (pij)
for the mixtures of pairs of particle groups where the large to small average volume ratio of the
pair is less than 10,000, and the functions P1 g243   (pij, pij2, (pJ3)for mixtures of triplets of particle
groups where the large to small average volume ratio of the pair is less than 10,000. Groups of
four, five, six, etc. particle groups under the same average volume ratio criteria can also be
employed. However, given particularly large supersets of particle groups, the "rule of thumb"
criteria previously mentioned can be used to reduce the number of required porosity functions.
         Given the partial subset porosity functions Pjpj2,... (pigj, pij2...) and the subset segregation
procedure, an example of which is given in Figure 6, those skilled in the art can construct an
objective function for a programming problem using the 6-step approximation technique
                                                   46

    WO 2015/073081                                                                      PCT/US2014/051468
described earlier. Constraints can be added in the same fashion as when using the full
Pi(9tj 1, 9ij2... QijN)  functions. Additionally, this approach requires using in the objective function
groups of particles corresponding only to sets of the P 1 j 2,...      (Pij, pij2...) such that each
Pjj2, ... (9uij,9j2...) forms a subset via the subset segregation procedure illustrated in Figure 6.
Consequently, it may be necessary to consider and/or solve several different programming
problems, each with objective function and constraints corresponding to different sets of
Pjpj2, - (ijl,    9ij2...). However, these programming problems will be significantly more time
efficient to solve given the reduction in variables in each problem due to the simpler forms of the
Pj2, .. (9Pi1,91Pi2...-).
            Finally, the complete or partial porosity functions Pi(pij], 9ij2 ...QijN) and
Ppj, 2, .-..(#p, 9(2--) are not necessary in order to choose, from a large superset of groups, which
groups to mix to achieve a granular composite with substantially reduced porosity. Given a
single point from each porosity function Pj(pij, (pij2...q9iA), or a single point from each of a set of
chosen P 1 2 ,...       (pij2...), where  each of the set of P 1 2,... (pij, pig...) forms a subset via the
subset segregation procedure illustrated in Figure 6, the 6-step procedure described in Subsection
B of the previous Section can be used to obtain a reduced porosity mixture. In particular, if the
points that are given are at the minima in porosity or near to the minima in porosity of the
porosity functions, the 6-step technique described in Subsection B of the previous section will
yield a substantially reduced-porosity mixture.
Description of Preferred Embodiments
            As noted above, in one embodiment, the present invention contemplates additive
manufacturing, including but not limited to Selective laser sintering (SLS). SLS is a technique
used for the production of prototype models and functional components. SLS uses lasers as its
power source to sinter powdered material, binding it together to create a solid structure, The aim
of the laser beam is scanned over a layer of powder and the beam is switched on to sinter the
powder or a portion of the powder. Powder is applied and successive layers sintered until a
completed part is formed. The powder can comprise plastic, metal, ceramic, carbide, glass, and
polymer substances (as well as combinations thereof).
                                                      47

    WO 2015/073081                                                            PCT/US2014/051468
        Selective Laser Sintering and Direct Metal Laser Sintering are essentially the same thing,
with SLS used to refer to the process as applied to a variety of materials-plastics, glass,
ceramics-whereas DMLS often refers to the process as applied to metal alloys. But what sets
sintering apart from melting or "Cusing" is that the sintering processes do not fully melt the
powder, but heats it to the point that the powder can fuse together on a molecular level.
        Selective Laser Melting, or SLM (often called Direct Metal Laser Metaling, or DMLM),
on the other hand, uses the laser to achieve a full melt. In this case, the powder is not merely
fused together, but is actually melted into a homogenous part. Melting is typically useful for a
monomaterial (pure titanium or a single alloy such as Ti 6-4), as there's just one melting point.
By contrast, it is currently typical when working with multiple metals, alloys, or combinations of
alloys and other materials such as plastics, ceramics, polymers, carbides or glasses, to use SLS or
DMLS.
        The present invention contemplates using increase porosity powders with SLS and
DMLS. In addition, such powders are herein contemplated for SLM and DMLM.
        Generally, in the field of additive manufacturing using composites such as powders, little
work has been done with respect to optimizing the structures of the composites. It is not known,
even among experts in the field, that composites with greatly reduced porosity can be produced,
where those composites do not easily phase separate and are still malleable enough to be used in
standard applications. Metal and ceramic powders employed in selective laser melting and
selective laser sintering processes generally exhibit porosities of about 30% to 50%. In the scarce
academic literature available on the subject of the effect of powder porosity on laser sintering
and laser melting processes, powders with porosities of as low as 25% have been produced. E.
0. Olakanmi, K. W. Dalgarno, and R. F. Cochrane, Laser sintering of blended Al-Si powders,
Rapid Prototyping Journal 18, 109-119 (2012). The reasons for this small body of work
involving lower porosity powders include, but are not limited to, that a) the extent of the
advantages of using powders with porosities less than about 25% are not known, and b) a low
cost production process that produces powders that do not easily phase separate, maintain the
malleability to be processed easily (i.e., have low enough viscosity), and exhibit porosities less
than about 25%, is not known.
                                                 48

   WO 2015/073081                                                              PCT/US2014/051468
        As a general process improvement to additive manufacturing processes using metal,
ceramic, cermet, glass, carbide, or other high-melting temperature powders along with focused
melting by laser or other process, the use and advantages of employing low-porosity powders,
defined as powders with porosities less than or equal to 20%, are described. These low-porosity
powders can be produced by either the granular composite density enhancement process or by
some other process (this distinction is discussed in detail below). The use of low-porosity
powders can be undertaken with powder particles composed of metals, cermets, ceramics,
glasses, polymers, and alloys of any elemental or molecular composition. In particular, the
threshold value of 20% porosity is set for low porosity powders to reflect the upper bound of the
porosities of powders used and capable of being used in current additive manufacturing
processes.
        Additive manufacturing as an industry and the research community have at times
recognized some benefits to decreasing the porosity of powders. This is evident in the
sometimes-employed "compaction step" undertaken using rollers or vibrating hoppers in the
laser melting and laser sintering processes to decrease porosity of powders from about 35-50% to
about 25-35% before melting or sintering using laser energy. However, in the few cases where it
has been investigated, decreasing porosity beyond these amounts is often not seen as desirable.
For example, one of the few studies that includes data on some of the effects of reducing powder
porosity in a laser sintering process on laser sintered parts, states that "Results from [other]
studies have not been able to completely define what direct consequences the nature of particle
packing arrangements has on the processing conditions, densification, and microstructure of laser
sintered components." See E. 0. Olakanmi et al. (cited above). Olakanmi et al studied metal
powders ranging in porosity from roughly 28% to 37%. Though some of their lower-porosity
powders produce greater density printed parts, which is desirable, in other cases, they found "no
strong correlation" between the density of printed parts and the porosity of the powders. They
concluded that it is not clear whether decreasing porosity beyond the experimental parameters of
their work can be beneficial to the laser sintering process.
        In direct contrast to these conclusions, the present inventors have identified a broad range
of advantages to the laser melting and laser sintering processes due to employing low-porosity
powders. A discussion of these advantages follows.
                                                 49

    WO 2015/073081                                                            PCT/US2014/051468
        Reductions in porosity increase overall absorption of laser energy in powders,
particularly as powder layers become thinner and thinner, for example, for layers less than
100gm thick. The increase in absorption means that more laser energy is used for melting
particles, rather than energy being scattered into the atmosphere of the printer chamber, making
printing with low-porosity powders more efficient. As laser melting and laser sintering processes
require expensive high-power lasers, the ability to reduce required laser power can result in
significant cost savings in the laser component of printers. For example, in a laser melting
process, comparing the absorption of a standard Titanium-based alloy powder of about 40%
porosity with skin depth of about 65pm to a low-porosity Titanium-based alloy powder of about
10% porosity with skin depth of about 20 gim, the low-porosity powder will absorb
approximately 2.5x as much laser energy, thereby allowing the use of a laser that outputs 60%
less power.
        Reductions in porosity also decrease lateral scattering of laser energy in laser heating of
powders, meaning that heating is more focused. This leads to a more uniform, more controlled
melting or sintering process.
        Reductions in porosity exponentially increase the thermal conductivity of powders. This
is due in part to the increased number of conduction pathways present in lower-porosity
powders, which have more contacts between particles. The increase in thermal conductivity from
a 40% porosity powder to a 5% porosity powder can be as much as lOx to 50x, and this change
can result in a multitude of improvements for laser melting and laser sintering processes.
        One improvement resulting from this increase in thermal conductivity is a greatly
reduced temperature gradient present over the powder layer as it heats, melts, and re-solidifies.
This reduced gradient can be as large or larger than 250,000 degrees Kelvin per centimeter. A
larger temperature gradient means more thermal expansion in some areas of the liquid, and
therefore more volume change from liquid to solid, leading to uneven re-solidification in the
sense of more grains and grain boundaries (including cracks) in the metal solids. Powders with
increased thermal conductivity therefore can re-solidify with fewer grain boundaries and cracks.
This leads to greater strength of the solid and greater durability under stressed, high temperature,
and corrosion conditions, as well as improved part surface structure due to more even heat flow
and therefore melting.
                                                50

    WO 2015/073081                                                           PCT/US2014/051468
         The reduced temperature gradient induced by higher powder thermal conductivity also
extends into the metal material below the powder. This means that more of the previously printed
layers will be heated to a greater temperature when the powder has relatively higher thermal
conductivity, which means more annealing of the metal, leading to a reduction in grain
boundaries and a generally more uniform finished-part microstructure. This also leads to a
reduced tendency of the liquid metal to "ball" on the surface, which is undesirable as balling
leads to pore formation in the final printed solid, because interface energies are reduced under
lower temperature gradients across the interface.
         A relatively higher powder thermal conductivity also leads to relatively lower maximum
temperatures exhibited during a laser melting or laser sintering process. The difference in
maximum temperature can exceed 1000 degrees Kelvin, where the highest temperatures occur at
the powder surface (which liquefies and sometimes boils). Relatively higher maximum
temperatures mean more oxidation, which is undesirable due to oxidation-induced balling and to
the introduction of oxide impurities. Relatively higher maximum temperatures also mean more
"splatter" of the surface liquid, resulting in a rougher surface and possibly micro or macro pore
formation. Pore formation leads to weaker, less durable, less corrosion-resistant solid parts.
Relatively higher maximum temperatures additionally mean, in alloys, more phase separation,
for example, of Carbon migrating to the surface in liquid stainless steel. Phase separation is
undesirable, as it leads to weaker structure and even delamination of layers.
         Reductions in porosity also decrease the amount of super-heated gas present in the spaces
between particles in a powder structure. This is important, as that gas must escape during the
melting and re-solidification process. Gas escape during solidification can lead to micro and
macro pore formation, as well as grain boundary formation.
         Due to the advantages including but not limited to those discussed previously, and due to
both the inconclusive nature of past studies investigating the effects of employing relatively
 denser powders in additive manufacturing processes involving powders and to the previous
 inability in general practice of producing workable (meaning low enough viscosity and minimal
 phase separation) powders with porosities of 20% or less, the present inventors propose, as a
 general process improvement to additive manufacturing processes where composite layers are
 sintered or melted in succession to form final products, the use of powders exhibiting porosities
                                                  51

    WO 2015/073081                                                            PCT/US2014/051468
of 20% or less. A method, the granular composite density enhancement process, to produce such
powders from a range of different materials including but not limited to pure metals, alloys,
ceramics, cermets, and glasses, is described above. Specific examples of how to produce
workable powders with porosities of 20% or less using the granular composite density
enhancement process are given in the Experimental section. Examples of how to produce
workable powders with porosities of 20% or less using other processes are also found in the
Experimental section.
         Employing a powdered metal ink for a Direct Metal Laser Sintering (DMLS) or Selective
Laser Melting (SLM) process, print speed can be dramatically enhanced using an ink produced
according to the granular composite density enhancement process described herein. It is useful to
compare (by way of example) an "enhanced ink" to a standard metal powder consisting of
approximately same-size, roughly spherical particles. Assuming that the melt time of the ink is
the limiting factor in print speed, a minimum 50-100 times increase in print speed is expected
due to the increased thermal conductivity and lower porosity of the enhanced ink. These
calculations assume a neutral background gas of Ni or Ar at approximately 1 atmosphere- of
pressure and are valid for various metal, ceramic, carbide, and other inks including Ti, Ti alloys,
Stainless Steel, Copper, Nickel-based superalloys, Aluminum Oxide, Tungsten Carbide, and any
other material with bulk thermal conductivity greater than 1 W/m*K. At lower pressures and for
materials with higher bulk thermal conductivities, the increase is more pronounced. The increase
in print speed is accompanied by significant increases in the bulk, shear and Young's moduli
(i.e., increased mechanical strength), and in electrical and thermal conductivity. Additionally,
significant improvement in the reproducibility of high-quality printed products, due to reduced
void fraction and defects, is expected in the resultant printed product.
         When we compare (by way of example) an "enhanced ink" to a metal powder consisting
of a mixture of two sizes of roughly spherical particles, the larger particles are assumed to be
roughly 100 times larger than the smaller, by volume. Assuming that the melt time of the ink is
the limiting factor in print speed, a 5-25 times increase in print speed is expected due to the
increased thermal conductivity and lower porosity of the enhanced ink. These calculations
assume a neutral background gas of N 2 or Ar at approximately 1 atmosphere of pressure and are
valid for various metal inks including Ti, Ti alloys, Stainless Steel, Copper, and any other
                                                52

    WO 2015/073081                                                              PCT/US2014/051468
metallic element or alloy with bulk thermal conductivity greater than 1 W/m*K. At lower
pressures and for metals with higher bulk thermal conductivities, the increase is more
pronounced. The increase in print speed is accompanied by significant increases in the bulk,
shear and Young's moduli (i.e., increased mechanical strength), and in electrical and thermal
conductivity. Additionally, significant improvement in the reproducibility of high-quality printed
products, due to reduced void fraction and defects, is expected in the resultant printed product.
The increases in mechanical strength, conductivities, and reproducibility are expected to be
somewhat less extreme than those obtained when comparing to a generic powder ink.
        In describing the enhanced ink, the most important point to remember is that different
microstructures, even at similar porosities (porosity is interchangeable with density when a
single alloy or element is specified), can result in different characteristics, including viscosities,
conductivities (related to print speed), and mechanical strengths.
Experimental
                                        Example 1
        This is an example of the production of a dense powder for additive manufacturing
purposes without using the GCDEP. Ti 6-4 (Ti-6Al-4V, or titanium containing (by weight) about
6% aluminum, 4% vanadium, and some minimal trace elements, including but not limited to iron
and oxygen). In this example, two groups of Ti 6-4 particles of commercial purity with a large
difference in averages particle sizes are used to produce a compacted metal powder with porosity
of approximately 18%. The first group of particles exhibit approximately normally distributed
volumes with average particle volume of about 8,000pm3 (effective diameter of about 25pm)
and a small diameter standard deviation of 5Lm. The volumes of the second group are
approximately log-normally distributed according to effective diameters (meaning an
approximately normally distributed passing curve, and also volume probability density function,
as a function of the logarithm of particle effective diameter or logarithm of particle volume),
with an average particle volume of 0.5pm3 (effective diameter of about 1pum), and a diameter
standard deviation of 0.5pm. Both groups of particles are highly-spherical (sphericity > 0.95),
and the coefficient of frictional interaction between particles within the same group is about 0.28,
indicating the presence of a thin (< 5nm thick) natural oxide layer surrounding the particles. The
                                                 53

    WO 2015/073081                                                           PCT/US2014/051468
un-compacted packing fraction (fraction of space covered by the particles) of the first group is
0.60, and that of the second group is 0.595, consistent with the sphericity and coefficients of
friction of the groups. When thoroughly mixed without vibration in larger group to smaller group
mass fractions of 71% : 29%, porosity of the bulk material will be approximately 18%. Exact
porosity is highly dependent on mixing method, as these particles will have a tendency to phase
separate, for example, when vibrated. The phase separated mixture will exhibit a porosity of
about 40%. To achieve 18% porosity, thorough up-down mixing with minimal vibration and a
compaction step are necessary. For example, in additive manufacturing, if a 100pm layer of the
mixed power is deposited using a roller, this roller can pass a second time over the deposited
layer except at a slightly lower height, thereby compacting the mixture. In this case, the surface
of the layer will exhibit higher porosity than the bulk, but only to ~10-20pm of depth.
                                       Example 2
        This is an example of the production of a dense powder for additive manufacturing
purposes without using the GCDEP. 316 Stainless Steel (approximately 16.5% carbon, 12%
chromium, 3% nickel, 1.4% molybdenum, 0.8% silicon, and trace phosphorus, sulfur, other
elements). In this example, stainless steel particles of commercial purity in a single group
exhibiting a continuous, approximately log-normally distributed size (diameter) probability
density function with average particle effective diameter of about 50nm (effective volume of
65,000nm3), sphericity of 0.86, and frictional coefficient of 0.52, are used to produce a powder
with porosity of about 20%. To accomplish this, the geometric standard deviation of the particle
group must be about 5.5pm, meaning that 5% of the total volume of particles will be greater than
Imm in diameter (and 40% greater than 100 m in diameter). In this case, for additive
manufacturing, a vibration step will be advantageous in reducing porosity, as phase separation
will not likely be a concern. However, laser processing of layers 1mm thick is complicated, as
even particle melting (with minimal evaporation) is inhibited by the amount of time required for
the bottom of the layer, 1mm from the point where the laser first strikes the surface, to heat to
melting temperatures. Additionally, the smaller nanometer-scale particles, having a much higher
ratio of surface area to volume, are more subject to forces, including but not limited to
electrostatic, Casimir and Van der Waals forces, that cause them to "stick" to each other and
                                                 54

    WO 2015/073081                                                            PCT/US2014/051468
larger particles. To counter electrostatic forces, an environment with minimal residual charge (a
"static-free" environment) is important, and an additional compaction step likely necessary, to
achieve 20% porosity.
                                        Example 3
         This is an example of the production of a dense granular composite using the GCDEP.
Two groups of flint glass (also called soda-lime) beads with high sphericity > 0.98 and low static
coefficient of friction < 0.05 are to be mixed to form a macroscopic filter. The larger group of
beads are 10mm in diameter and the smaller are 2mm in diameter. The bead mixtures are highly
uniform, i.e., the standard deviation of the volume probability density function of each group is
approximately zero. Referring to Table 1, a catalogue of various critical porosity values for
simulated mixtures of frictionless spheres at various small to large average sphere diameter (and
volume) ratios (simulations conducted using the TJ algorithm), the minimum porosity of 21.6%
is found to occur at a relative volume fraction of small spheres of 20.6%. No compaction or
vibration step is necessary to achieve this porosity; in fact, excess vibration will result in phase
separation of the beads at these size ratios. Upon mixing, the minimum in porosity was found to
be 21.4%, occurring within 0.9% of the simulated value, at a relative volume fraction of small
spheres of 20.1%, within 2.4% of the simulated value. The slightly lower porosity found at
somewhat smaller small sphere relative volume fraction was likely the result of some ordering of
the larger spheres occurring during the mixing. Figure 7 contains images displaying the
experimental apparati of these tests. The beaker in the images contains a mixture of a relative
volume fractions of about 17.5% 2mm beads and 82.5% 10mm beads with porosity of 22.2%.
This image is not captured at the minimum porosity structure found for this diameter ratio of
beads.
         For mixtures of 1mm and 10mm beads exhibiting the same physical characteristics as the
beads above, a minimum porosity of 17.7% was found at 25.0% relative volume fraction of small
beads; this is within 0.6% of the minimum porosity as predicted by the simulations, with the
minimum occurring within 0.4% of the critical relative small sphere volume fraction (data shown
in Table 1).
                                                 55

    WO 2015/073081                                                            PCT/US2014/051468
        For mixtures of 1mm and 3mm beads exhibiting the same physical characteristics as the
beads above, a minimum porosity of 28.8% was found at relative small sphere volume fraction
of 24.5%, which is within 0.7% of the porosity and the minimum within 0.4% of the relative
small sphere volume fraction predicted by simulations (data shown in Table 1).
                                        Example 4
        This is an example of the production of a dense granular composite using the GCDEP.
Two groups of highly spherical (sphericity > 0.95), very low friction (static coefficient of friction
equal to 0.07, kinetic coefficient of 0.03) Tungsten Disulfide particles are to be mixed to
minimize porosity. The first group exhibits a normal distribution of diameters about a mean size
of 10.1pm with a standard deviation of 0.9pm, and the second, also normally distributed, a mean
size of 1.4gm with a standard deviation of 0.14gm. As the coefficients of friction are very low,
the sphericity very near 1, and the standard deviations as a percentage of mean particle size very
small, these particle groups can be considered as frictionless spheres. Referring to Table 1, the
mixture that minimizes porosity is determined to occur at a relative volume fraction of 22.4%
smaller particles, with a porosity of 18.7%. These values are determined by linear extrapolation
to a diameter ratio of 1.4/10.1 =  0.137 from the values given in the table for small to large
diameter ratios of 0.10 and 0.15. Due to low coefficients of friction, vibrating or compacting is
not necessary to achieve low porosities, but to negate any electrostatic forces arising in the
mixing procedure without inducing phase separation, a compaction step could sometimes be
necessary.
                                        Example 5
        This is an example of the production of a dense granular composite using the GCDEP.
Three groups of highly aspherical, high coefficient of friction particles, consisting of crushed
rock and sand, are mixed with a paste, consisting of cement water, to make concrete. In this
 example, the amount of cement required to formulate the concrete is minimized such that the
 concrete is still "workable", meaning that it will still flow and, after compacting, fill spaces
 around rebar such that no macroscopic voids remain. The largest group of particles consists of
highly elongated crushed granite with average roundness of 0.21, density 2.79g/cm 3 , average
                                                56

    WO 2015/073081                                                             PCT/US2014/051468
sphericity of 0.56, and coefficient of static friction of 0.92. The particles have been sieved
between 4.00mm and 4.18mm sieves to yield a number average size of 4.09mm with a roughly
uniform size distribution from 4.00mm to 4.18mm. The porosity of this group of particles (on its
own) is P1 = 52%. The second group of particles consists of natural sand of average roundness
0.54, density 2.66g/cm3, average sphericity of 0.76, and coefficient of static friction of 0.70. The
particles have been sieved between 1.00mm and 1.25mm sieves to yield a number average size
of 1.13mm with a roughly uniform size distribution from 1.00mm to 1.25mm. The third group,
also natural sand, exhibits similar characteristics to the second, except it has been sieved through
0.15mm and 0.20mm sieves, yielding a roughly uniform particle distribution from 0.15mm to
0.20mm with average size of 0.18mm. The second group exhibits a porosity (on its own) of P 2        =
45%, and the third group P 3 = 44%. The fourth group of particles consists of Portland grey
cement; it exhibits an average roundness of 0.78, density of 3.15g/cm3 , average sphericity of
0.88, and coefficient of static friction of 0.38. Its volume probability density function is roughly
log-normally distributed around an average particle volume of 33,500pm 3 (effective linear size
(diameter) of 40gm) with arithmetic standard deviation of about 97,500gm 3 (57pm in units of
linear size), meaning that 97% of the volume of cement particles have a linear size smaller than
150pm (69% smaller than 75gm). The porosity of the cement (on its own) is 30%. However,
since the size distribution and average particle volume of the cement will change (particles will
become smaller) when the cement reacts chemically with water, the size distribution and average
particle volume are in this case ignored. This is possible given the reaction with water, but were
the smallest sand particles more similar in size to the cement particles, the cement average
particle volume and size distribution could not necessarily be discounted.
         Dividing the three groups of particles into subsets using the method depicted in Figure 6
yields two subsets of particle groups, {1,2}1 and {2,3}2. In this case, for each subset, the relative
volume fraction of smaller group particles at which minimal porosity occurs is determined
experimentally using the experimental method described in Subsection B above. As previously
 stated, no vibration or compaction steps were taken in measuring volume fractions. For subset 1,
minimal porosity is 44% and occurs at a relative volume fraction of group 2 particles of 40%.
For subset 2, minimal porosity is 26% and occurs at a relative volume fraction of group 3
particles of 24%. Using the second step of the GCDEP, described in Subsection B above, the
                                                  57

    WO 2015/073081                                                            PCT/US2014/051468
volume fraction of group 1 particles is found to be p = 0.56 .0.60 = 0.336, and the volume
fraction of group 2 particles is found to be (2 = 0.56 .0.40 = 0.224. The quantity Voo = 0.398 and
Vol = 0.266, yielding 93 = Voo (2,3 + Vol - (1 - P3)     0.220. The volume fraction of group 3
particles is found to be (1 - 0.364 - 0.358)   * 0.56 = 0.156. The porosity of the aggregate mixture
is 22.2%.
        To this mixture of three groups of aggregates is added a paste of cement in water. There
must be at least enough paste to fill the porosity between aggregates; however, generally, more
paste is added in order to allow the wet concrete mixture to flow. Cement and water are usually
combined in a pre-determined mass ratio, since the properties of the cement paste depends on the
amount of water mixed in. However, extra water must be added to account for the water
absorption of the aggregates. Each group 1, 2, and 3 of aggregates absorb, respectively, 1.1%,
1.5%, and 1.6% of their masses in water. In this case, cement was added in a mass fraction of
11.9% of the total mixture mass, with 0.45 grams of water added for every 1 gram of cement,
and an additional 0.09 grams of water per gram of cement to account for aggregate absorption. If
the cement and water were assumed to maintain their densities upon mixing (i.e., the chemical
reactions were ignored), then the mass fraction of cement required (with water added in a mass
fraction of water : cement, 0.54 : 1) to fill the porosity in the aggregate would have been 10.0%.
However, with the improved viscosity afforded by adding extra cement, the final mass fractions
of components were 36.1% : 23.0% : 22.5%: 11.9%: 6.5% group 1 : group 2: group 3: cement:
water. This represents a total of 74.6% aggregate, 9.4% cement, and 16.0% water by volume.
                                        Example 6
         This is an example of the production of a dense granular composite using the GCDEP.
Three groups of particles, the first two structural materials consisting of spherical cast tungsten
carbide (WC) powder, and the third a binding material consisting of cobalt (Co) powder, are
mixed to form a composite powder for selective laser sintering. The WC particles are highly
spherical (average sphericity > 0.97) and exhibit low static coefficient of friction of 0.08 due to
the addition of small amounts of lubricant, which will burn off at low temperatures (< 500
degrees C) during sintering. The first group of particles has uniform size distribution from
    Im to 118pm, with average particle volume of 114gm. The second group also has uniform
 111p
                                                  58

    WO 2015/073081                                                             PCT/US2014/051468
size distribution, from 20pm to 26gm, with average particle volume of 23pm. Considering the
high sphericity and low coefficients of friction in the first two particle groups, these groups can
be approximated as frictionless spheres. The Cobalt particles are rounded and somewhat
aspherical, with sphericity of 0.84 and coefficient of static friction of 0.37. Their volumes are
roughly log-normally distributed about an average of 0.4gm3 (effective diameter of 0.9pm) with
arithmetic standard deviation of 0.25pgm3 (effective diameter standard deviation of about
0.78pm). The Cobalt particles exhibit an uncompacted porosity of 31%. Dividing the three
groups into subsets via the method illustrated in Figure 6 yields two subsets { 1,21 and {3}2,
where the third group is small enough to be assumed to fit in the void space left by the two larger
groups.
         In this case, the thickness of powder layers to be sintered at each step in the additive
manufacturing process is 250pm - 350pm. To minimize variations in layer surface thickness,
minimal porosity is not sought in mixing the first two sets of particles, but rather a mixture that
includes 35% (by volume) 23pm particles, thereby diluting the larger particles and reducing
lateral surface thickness variation. Referring to Table 2, a catalogue of porosity values at
different small sphere relative volume fractions for simulated mixtures of frictionless spheres at
various small to large average sphere diameter ratios, the uncompacted porosity of the 65%
group 1, 35% group 2 mixture is determined to be 24%. In an ideal fabrication process, the
melted Cobalt would percolate and completely fill the void space within the WC mixture. At an
uncompacted Cobalt powder porosity of 31%, this would require volume ratios of 0.65 : 0.35:
0.35 group 1 : group 2: group 3 particles. Written in mass fractions, this is 55%: 30%: 15%
group 1 : group 2: group 3 particles. Due to the small average particle size of Cobalt particles
relative to the group 2 WC particles, a compaction step might be necessary before sintering in
order to minimize phase separation of the Cobalt from the WC particles.
         It should be noted that in most fabrication processes, in part due to the different densities
of liquid and solid Cobalt, the material produced after laser sintering would be porous, and could
therefore require less mass of Cobalt than used in this example.
                                                 59

    WO 2015/073081                                                               PCT/US2014/051468
                                         Example 7
        This is an example of the production of a dense granular composite using the GCDEP.
Four groups of Ti 6-4 particles, each comprising about 89.5% titanium, 6% aluminum, 4%
vanadium, 0.3% Iron and 0.2% Oxygen, as well as trace elements, are to be mixed to form a
powder for a laser melting additive manufacturing process. The first group of particles exhibits
average sphericity of 0.97, a coefficient of static friction of 0.25, and is distributed roughly
uniformly in particle volume from 240pm 3 to 380gm 3 (7.7gm to 9.0gm in effective diameter)
with average particle volume of 302gm 3 (8.3gm in effective diameter). The second group
exhibits similar average sphericity and coefficient of static friction, and is distributed uniformly
in particle volume from 2.5gm 3 to 7.1 m 3 (1.7gm to 2.4gm in effective diameter) with average
particle volume of 4.8gm 3. The third particle group exhibits average sphericity of 0.91, a
coefficient of static friction of 0.37, and is distributed log-normally in its volume probability
density function with average particle volume of 0.075pm 3 (effective diameter of 525nm) and
standard deviation of about 0.015 mtm    3 . The fourth particle group exhibits average sphericity of
0.87, a coefficient of static friction of 0.42, and is distributed log-normally in its volume
probability density function with average particle volume of 0.000697pm 3 (effective diameter of
11 Om) and standard deviation of about 0.000290gm 3 . Dividing the four groups into subsets via
the method illustrated in Figure 6 yields two subsets, {1, 2 ,3 }1 and {3,4}2
         With the size distributions, sphericities and coefficients of static friction known,
simulations using the TJ algorithm yield a porosity minima and the relative volume fractions at
which they occur for the subsets. Since the composite will be compacted before processing,
compaction is also taken into account in the simulation, which yields for the first subset a
porosity of 12.3% at relative volume fractions of 65.8% : 19.7% : 14.5%, and for the second
subset a porosity of 23.4% occurring at relative volume fraction of 22.3% group 4 particles,
where the group 4 particles on their own exhibit a porosity P4 = 38.8 %. The second step of the
 GCDEP, as discussed in Subsection B above, is applied to yield Voo = 0.213 and Vol = 0.0437,
 and with qp,= 0.578, 92 = 0.172, and 93 = 0.127, yields (4 = Voo * 9Z4 + V01 (1 - P4) = 0.0589.
This gives a final porosity of 6.4% with relative volume fractions of 61.7% :18.4% :13.6%
 6.3% group 1 : group 2 : group 3 : group 4 particles.
                                                   60

    WO 2015/073081                                                              PCT/US2014/051468
                                                  Example 8
        This is an example of the production of a dense granular composite using the GCDEP.
Seven groups of alumina (A12 0 3 ) powders of high purity (> 99.0%) are to be mixed, compressed
at high pressure (200MPa), and solid-state sintered at 1550 degrees C for use as granular armor.
The particle groups have the following properties:
         1. The first group consists of cylinders (sphericity of about 0.87) 12.2mm in length and
8.6mm diameter, with roughly uniformly distributed volumes from 680 to 740mm3 (average
volume of 710mm 3). Their coefficient of friction is 0.34.
        2. The second group consists of angular, aspherical particles (sphericity of 0.72) with
roughly uniformly distributed volumes from 19.5mm3 to 22.0mm3 (average volume of 21.8mm3,
effective average diameter of 3.4mm). Their coefficient of friction is 0.74.
        3. The third group consists of angular, aspherical particles (sphericity of 0.75) with
roughly uniformly distributed volumes from 0.5 5mm3 to 0.9mm 3 (average volume of 0.73mm3,
effective average diameter of 1.1mm). Their coefficient of friction is 0.59.
        4. The fourth group consists of highly spherical particles (sphericity of 0.98) with
normally distributed volumes averaging 0.00 16mm3 and standard deviation of 0.0004mm 3
(effective average diameter of 145gm). Their coefficient of friction is 0.17.
        5. The fifth group consists of highly spherical particles (sphericity of 0.97) with roughly
uniformly distributed volumes from 5100gm 3 to 6050pm 3 (average volume of 5580gm 3,
effective average diameter of 22.0pm). Their coefficient of friction is 0.21.
         6. The sixth group consists of rounded, somewhat aspherical particles (sphericity of 0.88)
with log-normally distributed volumes averaging 69gm 3 with a standard deviation of 5.2pm3
(effective average diameter of 5.1pm). 'Their coefficient of friction is 0.38.
         7. The seventh group consists of somewhat rounded, apsherical particles (sphericity of
0.84) with log-normally distributed volumes averaging 0.27pm 3 with a standard deviation of
0.05gm 3 (effective average diameter of 0.8pm). Their coefficient of friction is 0.47.
         Dividing the seven particle groups into subsets via the method illustrated in Figure 6
yields five subsets, {1, 2 ,3 }1, {3,4}2, {4,5}3, {5,6}4, and {6,7}s. For each subset, to ensure that
 during compression there are no large voids, the relative volume of smaller spheres is chosen to
                                                   61

    WO 2015/073081                                                             PCT/US2014/051468
be about 20% larger than the volume that corresponds to the minimum in porosity. Simulation
using the TJ algorithm is used to determine the desired relative volumes for the first subset,
yielding a minimum compacted porosity of 14.5%; however, for the volume fractions employed,
compacted porosity is 16.9% at relative volumes of 46.4% : 25.9%: 27.3% group 1 : group 2 :
group 3 particles. For the second subset, experimentation is used to determine a curve of porosity
versus group 4 relative volume fraction of particles. The result is a compacted porosity minimum
of 18.8% occurring at 28% group 4 particles; however, for the mixture of subsets, 33.5% group 4
particles are used, giving a porosity of 19.7%. For the third subset, under compaction, both
particle groups of particles can be approximated as frictionless spheres. Using the lookup Table 2
at small to large diameter ratio of 0.15 yields, via linear interpolation, a porosity of 19.9% at
27% relative volume fraction of group 5 particles. For the fourth and fifth subsets, simulation
using the TJ algorithm is employed, again using values for relative volume fractions of smaller
particles that are about 20% larger than the values for which the porosity minimum occurs. This
approaches yields porosities of 25.5% and 21.8% occurring at relative volume fractions of
smaller particles of 29.5% and 25.2%, respectively. The compacted porosity P 7 of particle group
7 on its own was simulated to be 34.2%. Experiment placed P 7 at 33.9%, which was the value
used.
        Using the six-step method described herein, the subsets are combined. The following
values are calculated:
         1. Vo = 1, (p = 0.386, P2 = 0.215, P = 0.227
         2. Voo = 0.425, Vol = -0.0261. According to Step 3b) of the subset combination technique,
q; is reduced to 0.369 and V2 to 0.206, yielding Vol = 0. The value (P4 = 0.114.
         3. Vooo = 0.195, Voo = 0.0026, V010 = 0. The value Vs = 0.0436.
         4. Voooo = 0.080, Vooo1 = 0.00070, Vooo = 0, Voo    = 0, Vooo = 0.0026. The value 96=
0.0480.
         5. Vooo0o = 0.030, V00001 = 0.0080, Voooio = .00070, Voiooo = 0, Voiooi = 0, Vo01oo = 0, Voi 1 o
=  0.00099, V00101 = 0.00026. The value V7= 0.0125.
         The final porosity of the compacted powder is found to be 0.90%, at relative volume
fractions of, from largest to smallest particle group, 37.26% : 20.75%: 22.90% :11.54% : 4.40%
                                                 62

H:\rbr\iteroven\NRPortbl\DCC\RBR\17202849_ I.doex-22/06/2018
: 1.88% : 1.26%. Careful mixing of the powder in a static-free environment is necessary,
before compaction, to achieve 0.90% porosity.
The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived from it), or
to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an acknowledgment or
admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or information derived from
it) or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge in the field of endeavour to
which this specification relates.
Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context requires
otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and "comprising", will be
understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but
not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
                                                             63

            WO 2015/073081                                                              PCT/US2014/051468
Fables:
                                                           Relative volume
  Small : Large      Small: Large        Small: Large      fraction of small                        Packing
   Radius Ratio      Volume Ratio        Number Ratio          particles          Porosity         Fraction
        0.001           1.0 x 10-9        0.999999997            0.268             0.134             0.866
        0.05            0.000125             0.99964             0.266             0.153             0.847
         0.10             0.001               0.997               0.249            0.172             0.828
         0.15           0.003375              0.988               0.217             0.191            0.809
         0.20             0.008               0.970               0.206             0.216             0.784
        0.222              0.011              0.9625              0.219             0.230             0.770
         0.33              0.036               0.90               0.244             0.283             0.717
         0.45              0,091               0.80               0.267             0.318             0.682
         0.95              0.857                 -                   -              0.365             0.635
         1.00                1.0                                                    0.366             0.634
Caption Table 1: Table of values for simulated mixtures of groups of bimodal, frictionless spheres, where each
group consists of only one size of sphere. The ratio of group small to large average particle diameter and
average particle volume are given, along with the critical number and volume fractions at which minimal
porosity (maximum packing fraction) for the mixture is achieved. The simulations that determined these values
were conducted using the TJ algorithm. 9 The method of simulation is critical to determining accurate values of
minimal porosity and the critical relative volume fraction of small spheres at which that minimal porosity
occurs.
                                                           64

              WO 2015/073081                                                              PCT/US2014/051468
                                                     Porosity
   Relative Volume
       Fraction of         Small: Large           Small Large            Small: Large           Small: Large
     Small Spheres      Diam. Ratio 0.15       Diam. Ratio = 0.20     Diam. Ratio = 0.33     Diam. Ratio = 0.45
           0.175               0.248                   0.242                  0.292                 0.325
           0.200               0.219                   0.211                  0.287                  0.323
           0.225               0.192                   0.219                  0.282                  0.321
           0.250               0.193                   0.223                  0.282                  0.320
           0.275               0.201                   0.228                  0.283                  0.318
           0.300               0.206                   0.232                  0.284                  0.318
           0.325               0.212                   0.237                  0.285                  0.319
           0.350               0.217                   0.242                  0.287                  0.319
           0.375               0.222                   0.247                  0.289                  0.320
           0.400               0.228                   0.252                  0.292                  0.320
           0.425                0.235                  0.257                  0.295                  0.321
           0.450                0.241                  0.263                  0.298                  0.322
           0.475                0.247                  0.268                  0.301                  0.323
           0.500                0.252                  0.274                  0.304                  0.323
Caption Table 2: Table of porosity values at various small sphere relative volume fraction for simulated
mixtures of groups of bimodal, frictionless spheres, where each group consists of only one size of sphere. The
simulations that determined these values were conducted using the TJ algorithm. 9 The method of simulation is
critical to determining accurate values of porosity at various small sphere relative volume fractions.
                                                           65

   WO 2015/073081                                                         PCT/US2014/051468
         CLAIMS
         1. A system comprising a) a dispenser positioned over a target surface, said dispenser
containing a granular composite having a porosity of 20% or less; and b) an energy source
positioned to transfer energy to said composite when dispensed on said target surface.
        2. The system of Claim 1, wherein said composite is protected against oxidation with an
inert shielding gas.
        3. The system of Claim 1, wherein said composite is a sinterable powder.
        4. The system of Claim 1, wherein said composite is a fusible powder.
        5. The system of Claim 1, wherein said composite is a meltable powder.
        6. The system of Claim 5, wherein said meltable powder exhibits a melting temperature
between 500 and 5000 0C.
        7. The system of Claim 5, wherein said powder comprises metal particles.
        8. The system of Claim 5, wherein said powder comprises ceramic particles.
        9. The system of Claim 5, wherein said powder comprises cermet particles.
         10. The system of Claim 5, wherein said powder comprises a mixture of ceramic and
metal particles.
         11. The system of Claim 5, wherein said powder comprises carbide particles.
         12. The system of Claim 5, wherein said powder comprises glass particles.
                                              66

   WO 2015/073081                                                        PCT/US2014/051468
         13 . The system of Claim 5, wherein said powder comprises a mixture of polymer and
metal particles.
         14. The system of Claim 5, wherein said powder comprises a mixture of polymer and
ceramic particles.
         15. The system of Claim 5, wherein said powder comprises a mixture of polymer and
glass particles.
         16. The system of Claim 5, wherein said powder comprises a mixture of metal and glass
particles.
         17. The system of Claim 5, wherein said powder comprises a mixture of carbide and
polymer particles.
         18. The system of Claim 5, wherein said powder comprises a mixture of carbide and
metal particles.
         19. The system of Claim 5, wherein said powder comprises a mixture of carbide, cermet,
and metal particles.
        20. The system of Claim 5. wherein said powder comprises a mixture of carbide, cermet,
and polymer particles.
        21. The system of Claim 5, wherein said powder comprises a mixture of ceramic, metal,
and polymer particles.
        22. The system of Claim 5, wherein said powder comprises a mixture of metal, glass,
and polymer particles.
                                              67

    WO 2015/073081                                                            PCT/US2014/051468
        23. The system of Claim 5, wherein said powder comprises a mixture of carbide, metal,
 and polymer particles.
        24. The system of Claim 5, wherein said powder comprises Titanium alloy particles and
has a porosity of approximately 10%.
        25. The system of Claim 5, wherein said powder comprises first and second groups of
particles, said particles of said first group having an average particle volume that is at least 25
times larger than the average particle volume of said particles of said second group.
        26. The system of Claim 5, wherein said powder comprises first and second groupss of
particles, said particles of said first group having an average particle volume that is between 25
and 2000 times larger than the average particle volume of said particles of said second group.
        27. The system of Claim 5, wherein said powder comprises a 62.8%: 16.2%: 16.7%:
4.3% mixture of a first group comprising approximately 10 micron particles, a second group
comprising approximately 2 micron particles, a third group comprising approximately 200
nanometer particles, and a fourth group comprising approximately 40 nanometer particles,
respectively, said powder having a porosity of approximately 4.4%.
        28. The system of Claim 1, wherein said energy source is a laser.
        29. The system of Claim 1, wherein said granular composite is in a solvent.
        30. The system of Claim 1, wherein said granular composite is in a paste.
        31.   A layer of a granular composite powder, said layer less than 1000 microns in
thickness, said powder having a porosity of 20% or less.
                                                  68

   WO 2015/073081                                                            PCT/US2014/051468
        32. The layer of Claim 31, wherein said powder is sinterable.
        33.   The layer of Claim 31, wherein said powder is fusible,
        34. The layer of Claim 31, wherein said powder is meltable.
        35. The layer of Claim 31, wherein said powder comprises metal particles.
        36. The layer of Claim 31, wherein said powder comprises ceramic particles.
        37. The layer of Claim 31, wherein said powder comprises cermet particles.
        38. The layer of Claim 31, wherein said powder comprises carbide particles.
        39. The layer of Claim 31, wherein said power comprises a mixture of ceramic and metal
particles.
        40. The layer of Claim 31, wherein said power comprises a mixture of ceramic, metal
and polymer particles.
        41.   The layer of Claim 31, wherein said powder comprises Titanium alloy particles and
has a porosity of approximately 10%.
        42. The layer of Claim 31, wherein said powder comprises first and second groups of
particles, said particles of said first group having an average particle volume that is at least 25
times larger than the average particle volume of said particles of said second group.
        43. The layer of Claim 31, wherein said powder comprises first and second groups of
particles, said particles of said first group have an average particle volume that is between 25 and
2000 times larger than the average particle volume of said particles of said second group.
                                                  69

    WO 2015/073081                                                          PCT/US2014/051468
        44. The layer of Claim 31, wherein said powder comprises a 62.8%: 16.2%: 16.7%:
4.3% mixture of a first group comprising approximately 10 micron particles, a second group
comprising approximately 2 micron particles, a third group comprising approximately 200
nanometer particles, and a fourth group comprising approximately 40 nanometer particles,
respectively, said powder having a porosity of approximately 4.4%.
        45. The layer of Claim 31, wherein said layer is positioned on a second layer of a
granular composite powder, said second layer less than 1000 microns in thickness, said powder
having a porosity of 20% or less.
        46. The layer of Claim 45, wherein both layers are approximately 50 microns in
thickness.
        47. The layer of Claim 31, wherein said granular composite powder is in a solvent.
        48. The layer of Claim 31, wherein said granular composite powder is in a paste.
        49. A method of producing layers comprising the steps of:
        a) providing a source of a granular composite powder having a porosity of 20% or less;
        b) depositing a first portion of said powder onto a target surface;
        c) depositing energy into the powder of said first portion under conditions that said
        energy causes sintering, fusing or melting of the first powder portion so as to create a first
        layer;
        d) depositing a second portion of powder onto said first layer; and
        e) depositing energy into the powder of said second portion under conditions that said
        energy causes sintering, fusing or melting of the second powder portion so as to create a
        second layer positioned on said first layer.
        50. The method of Claim 49, wherein the energy is deposited by a laser.
                                                70

    WO 2015/073081                                                           PCT/US2014/051468
        51. The method of Claim 50, wherein step c) comprises focusing the laser with at least
one lens.
        52. The method of Claim 49, wherein said first and second layers are less than 100
microns in thickness.
        53. - The method of Claim 49, wherein said powder comprises metal particles.
        54. The method of Claim 49, wherein said powder comprises ceramic particles.
        55. The method of Claim 49, wherein said powder comprises cermet particles.
        56. The method of Claim 49, wherein said powder comprises carbide particles.
        57. The method of Claim 49, wherein said powder comprises a mixture of ceramic and
metal particles.
        58. The method of Claim 49, wherein said powder comprises a mixture of ceramic,
metal and polymer particles.
        59. The method of Claim 49, wherein said powder comprises Titanium alloy particles
and has a porosity of approximately 10%.
        60. The method of Claim 49, wherein said powder comprises first and second groups of
particles, said particles of said first group having an average particle volume at least 25 times
larger than the average particle volume of said particles of said second group.
        61. The method of Claim 60, wherein said powder comprises first and second group of
particles, said particles of said first group having an average particle volume that is between 25
and 2000 times larger than the average particle volume of said particles of said second group.
                                                  71

    WO 2015/073081                                                             PCT/US2014/051468
        62. The method of Claim 49, wherein said powder comprises a 62.8%: 16.2%: 16.7%:
4.3% mixture of a first group comprising approximately 10 micron particles, a second group
comprising approximately 2 micron particles, a third group comprising approximately 200
nanometer particles, and a fourth group comprising approximately 40 nanometer particles,
respectively, said powder having a porosity of approximately 4.4%.
        63. The method of Claim 49, wherein said granular composite powder is in a solvent.
        64. The method of Claim 49, wherein said granular composite powder is in a paste.
        65. A method of producing layers comprising the steps of:
        a) providing first and second granular composite powders, each of said powders having a
porosity of 20% or less;
        b) depositing said first powder onto a target surface;
        c) depositing energy into said first powder under conditions such that said energy causes
sintering, fusing or melting of said first powder so as to create a first layer;
        d) depositing said second powder onto the first layer; and
        e) depositing energy into said second powder such that said energy causes sintering,
fusing or melting of said second powder so as to create a second layer.
        66. The method of Claim 65, wherein said energy is deposited by a laser.
        67. The method of Claim 65, wherein said first and second layers are less than 100
microns in thickness.
        68. The method of Claim 65, wherein said first powder comprises metal particles.
        69. The method of Claim 65, wherein said second powder comprises ceramic particles.
                                                72

   WO 2015/073081                                                            PCT/US2014/051468
        70. The method of Claim 65, wherein said first powder comprises cermet particles.
        71.  The method of Claim 65, wherein said second powder comprises a mixture of
ceramic and metal particles.
        72. The method of Claim 65, wherein said first powder comprises Titanium alloy
particles and has a porosity of approximately 10%.
        73. The method of Claim 65, wherein said first powder comprises first and second
groups of particles, said particles of said first group having an average particle volume at least 25
times larger than the average particle volume of said particles of said second group.
        74. The method of Claim 73, wherein said first powder comprises first and second
groups of particles, said particles of said first group having an average particle volume that is
between 25 and 2000 times larger than the average particle volume of said particles of said
second group.
                                                  73

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
