                                      ABSTRACT
        This method for producing a compound uses a continuous tank reactor which is
provided with two or more reaction tanks for producing the compound and with a
reaction liquid feeding pipe that feeds a reaction liquid from an upstream reaction tank
to a downstream reaction tank, said method being characterized in that the Reynold's
number of the reaction liquid that flows in the reaction liquid feeding pipe is configured
to be 1800-22000. Furthermore, this compound production system is used in said
method for producing a compound, and is formed by housing at least one of the reaction
tanks in a portable container.

                                       DESCRIPTION
   METHOD FOR PRODUCING COMPOUND AND COMPOUND PRODUCTION
                     SYSTEM USED IN PRODUCTION METHOD
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001] The present invention relates to a method for producing a compound and a
compound production system used in the production method.
        The present application claims priority based on Japanese Patent Application No.
2014-142688, filed July 10, 2014. The contents of the application are incorporated
herein by reference in their entirety.
BACKGROUND ART
[0002] A method for producing a target compound using a biocatalyst has advantages
that reaction conditions are mild, a purity level of a reaction product is high with fewer
byproducts, and a production process can be simplified. Therefore, such a method is
used for producing various compounds. For example, in production of an amide
compound such as acrylamide, since a nitrile hydratase, which is an enzyme for
converting a nitrile compound such as acrylonitrile into an amide compound, is found,
production of an aide compound using the enzyme has been widely conducted.
[0003] Further, in recent years, production of acrylamide by continuous reaction using a
nitrile hydratase has been conducted. As an example of methods for producing
acrylamide by continuous reaction, there is mentioned a method for producing
acrylanide described in Patent Publication 1 which is intended to achieve low costs,
energy saving, and low environmental loads. In Patent Publication 1. it is described that,
                                             1

in production of acrylamide by continuous reaction using a nitrile hydratase, enzyme
reaction is performed under the conditions of a predetermined stirring power and a
predetermined Froude number.
CITATION LIST
PATENT PUBLICATION
[0004] Patent Publication 1: WO 09/113654 A
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
PROBLEM TO BE SOLVED BY THE INVENTION
[0005] From the viewpoint of space limitation that is a general problem, also in
production of acrylamide by continuous reaction using a nitrile hydratase, it is further
desired that space saving is achieved by improving production efficiency.
        In this regard, an object of the invention is to provide a method for producing a
compound using continuous reaction in which space saving is achieved by improving
production efficiency (without a decrease in production efficiency).
MEANS FOR SOLVING PROBLEM
[0006] The present inventors have conducted intensive studies, and as a result, they
found out that when a Reynolds number of a reaction liquid flowing in a reaction liquid
feeding pipe is set to be in a predetermined range, the above-described problem can be
solved, thereby completing the invention.
        That is, the invention includes the following configurations.
[1]     A method for producing a compound using a continuous tank reactor which is
provided with two or more reaction tanks for producing a compound and a reaction
                                              2

liquid feeding pipe that feeds a reaction liquid from an upstream reaction tank to a
downstream reaction tank, in which a Reynolds number of the reaction liquid flowing in
the reaction liquid feeding pipe is set to 1800 to 22000.
[2]      A compound production system being used in the method for producing a
compound described in [1], in which at least one tank of the reaction tanks is
accommodated in a portable container.
[3]      The compound production system described in [2], in which when at least one
tank of the reaction tanks is accommodated in the portable container, a total volume of
the at least one tank of the reaction tanks accommodated in the portable container is 1/6
to 3/5 of an inner volume of the portable container.
[4]      The method for producing a compound described in [1], in which the method
uses the compound production system described in [2], and a value obtained by dividing
an inner volume    (M3 ) of the portable container by a flow rate (m 3/hour) of the reaction
liquid flowing in the reaction tank accommodated in the portable container is 5 to 70
hours.
[5]      The compound production system described in [2] or [3], in which another
portable container is disposed on the portable container in which the reaction tank is
accommodated.
[6]      A method for producing acrylamide using the method for producing a compound
described in [1], the acrylamide production method including: a step of supplying an
acrylonitrile-containing liquid to at least one tank of the reaction tanks; a step of
supplying raw water to at least one tank of the reaction tanks; and a step of supplying a
biocatalyst aqueous dispersion to at least one tank of the reaction tanks.
[7]      The compound production system described in [2], in which a volume of the
reaction tank accommodated in the portable container is 6.4 m3 to 22.9 in 3.
                                              3

[8]     The compound production system described in [2], in which the compound is an
amide compound.
[9]     The compound production system described in [2], in which the compound is
acrylamide.
EFFECT OF THE INVENTION
[0007] According to the invention, it is possible to provide a method for producing a
compound using continuous reaction in which space saving is achieved without a
decrease in production efficiency. In addition, a production system of the invention can
be carried to a place in which there is a demand for using the production system and can
start industrial production of a compound in a short time.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[0008] Fig. 1 is a schematic cross-sectional view illustrating an embodiment of a
continuous tank reactor used in a method for producing a compound of the invention;
and
        Fig. 2 is a schematic cross-sectional view illustrating another embodiment of a
compound production system used in the method for producing a compound of the
invention.
MODE(S) FOR CARRYING OUT THE INVENTION
[0009] <Embodiment of Method for Producing Compound>
        Hereinafter, as an embodiment of a method for producing a compound of the
invention, an embodiment in which acrylamide is produced using a continuous tank
reactor 1 by hydration of acrylonitrile serving as a raw material in the presence of a
                                             4

biocatalyst will be described by means of Fig. 1.
[0010] [Continuous Tank Reactor]
        The continuous tank reactor 1 illustrated in Fig. 1 is provided with eight reaction
tanks 10 for producing a compound. In addition, the continuous tank reactor I is
provided with an acrylonitrile supplying pipe 21 supplying an acrylonitrile-containing
liquid to the reaction tank 10, a catalyst supplying pipe 22 supplying a biocatalyst
aqueous dispersion to the reaction tank 10, and a raw water supplying pipe 23 supplying
raw water to the reaction tank 10. Furthermore, the continuous tank reactor I may be
provided with an acid/alkali solution supplying pipe 25 supplying acid or alkali in order
to control a pH of the reaction liquid in the reaction tank 10.
        Furthermore, the continuous tank reactor 1 is provided with a stirring blade 24
stirring the reaction liquid obtained by mixing the acrylonitrile-containing liquid, the
biocatalyst aqueous dispersion, and the raw water. Furthermore., the continuous tank
reactor 1 is provided with a reaction liquid feeding pipe 26 feeding the reaction liquid
from the upstream reaction tank to the downstream reaction tank among the reaction
tanks 10. Furthermore, the continuous tank reactor 1 is provided with a reaction product
collecting pipe 27 collecting an acrylamide-containing aqueous solution from the most
downstream reaction tank among the reaction tanks 10.
        Liquid feeding in the reaction liquid feeding pipe 26 and the reaction product
collecting pipe 27 may be performed by using potential energy generated by a
difference between a height of the liquid surface of the upstream reaction tank and a
height of the liquid surface of the downstream reaction tank (hereinafter, simply referred
to as "liquid surface difference") or may be performed by using pressure energy
generated by a liquid feeding pump. From the viewpoint of achieving simplification of
the continuous tank reactor 1 and energy saving in production, liquid feeding is
                                               5

preferably performed by using potential energy.
         Hereinafter, each configuration of the continuous tank reactor 1 will be
described in detail.
[0011] (Reaction Tank)
         The reaction tanks 10 are further classified into a reaction tank 11 provided with
at least one pipe of the acrylonitrile supplying pipe 21, the catalyst supplying pipe 22,
the raw water supplying pipe 23, and the acid/alkali solution supplying pipe 25; a
reaction tank 12 provided with the reaction product collecting pipe 27; and a reaction
tank 13 not provided with any pipe of these pipes. The reaction tank 11 is typically
positioned at the upstream side of the flow of the reaction liquid. Further, the reaction
tank 12 is typically positioned at the downstream side of the flow of the reaction liquid
and is preferably positioned at the most downstream side. Furthermore, the reaction
tank 13 may be provided in a case where the reaction tanks 10 are three or more, and in
the case of providing the reaction tank 13, the reaction tank 13 is typically positioned
between the reaction tank 11 and the reaction tank 12 in the flow of the reaction liquid.
         Incidentally, the reaction tank 10 may be provided with a liquid surface sensor
measuring the liquid surface of the reaction liquid in the tank.
         Further, each reaction tank of the reaction tanks 10 may be an independent
reaction tank, or may be a reaction tank obtained by dividing a larger reaction tank with
a partition. In a case where each reaction tank is a reaction tank divided with a partition,
in this embodiment, each space divided with a partition is counted as one tank.
         Further, the reaction tanks 10 are two or more, and all the reaction tanks may be
connected with one another. The reaction tanks 10 may be configured such that at least
some reaction tank may be connected in series or a reaction tank to be connected in
parallel may be provided.
                                              6

[0012] The material of the reaction tank 10 is not particularly limited as long as it is not
corroded by the reaction liquid, and stainless steel or the like is preferable.
        The shape of the reaction tank 10 is not particularly limited as long as the
reaction liquid in the reaction tank is stirred by the stirring blade 24, and for example, a
cube shape, a cuboid shape, a cylindrical shape, and the like are mentioned.
        The volume of the reaction tank 10 is not particularly limited and can be
appropriately selected depending on the scale or the like of the continuous tank reactor 1.
For example, in a case where the reaction tank is accommodated in the portable
container and used, the volume of the reaction tank as described later can be selected.
The shape and volume of the reaction tank 10 are preferably set such that each tank or
two or more tanks can be accommodated in the portable container.
        In a case where the production of the aqueous solution of acrylamide is
performed by continuous reaction, the aqueous solution of acrylamide is produced in a
continuous manner without collecting the entire reaction mixture in the reaction vessel
while maintaining continuous or intermittent introduction of raw materials for reaction
(for example, containing the biocatalyst aqueous dispersion, the raw water, and the
acrylonitrile-containing liquid) to the reaction vessel and continuous or intermittent
retrieval of the reaction mixture (for example, containing the produced aciylamide)
from the reaction vessel.
[0013] (Acrylonitrile Supplying Pipe and Raw Water Supplying Pipe)
        In this embodiment, a step of supplying the acrylonitrile-containing liquid to the
reaction tank and a step of supplying the raw water to the reaction tank are included.
These steps are performed by using the acrylonitrile supplying pipe 21 and the raw
water supplying pipe 23, respectively.
        The material of the acrylonitrile supplying pipe 21 is not particularly limited as
                                               7

long as it is not corroded by the acrylonitrile-containing liquid. The material of the
acrylonitrile supplying pipe 21 is preferably, for example, stainless steel or the like.
        The inner diameter of the acrylonitrile supplying pipe 21 is preferably 1 to 5 cm.
When the inner diameter of the acrylonitrile supplying pipe 21 is equal to or more than
the lower limit, the acrylonitrile-containing liquid can be efficiently supplied. On the
other hand, when the inner diameter thereof is equal to or less than the upper limit,
space saving is further achieved.
        The inner diameter of the raw water supplying pipe 23 is preferably 2 to 10 cm.
When the inner diameter of the raw water supplying pipe 23 is equal to or more than the
lower limit, pressure loss in the raw water supplying pipe 23 can be decreased. On the
other hand, when the inner diameter thereof is equal to or less than the upper limit,
space saving is further achieved.
[0014] In order to control the production quantity of acrylamide, it is preferable that the
acrylonitrile supplying pipe 21 and the raw water supplying pipe 23 each have an
acrylonitrile supply flow rate adjustment means (for example, an acrylonitrile supply
flow rate adjustment unit) and a raw water supply flow rate adjustment means (for
example, a raw water supply flow rate adjustment unit). As these adjustment means, a
method using a flow rate adjustment valve (for example, a unit having a flow rate
adjustment valve), a method controlling power of the liquid feeding pump (for example,
a unit controlling power of the liquid feeding pump), and the like are mentioned. The
schemes of these adjustment means may be schemes that perform automatic control
such that the flow rate of the aqueous solution of acrylamide flowing out from the
reaction product collecting pipe 27 by overflow is set to be in cooperation with these
adjustment means so that the flow rate of the aqueous solution of acrylamide flowing
out from the reaction product collecting pipe 27 is adjusted to a predetermined range.
                                             8

         An acrylonitrile supply port 28 in the acrylonitrile supplying pipe 21 is
preferably positioned in the vicinity of the stirring blade 24 in order that the
concentration of acrylonitrile in the reaction tank 11 is not partially increased.
[0015] (Catalyst Supplying Pipe)
         In this embodiment, a step of supplying the biocatalyst aqueous dispersion to the
reaction tank is included. The step is performed by using the catalyst supplying pipe 22.
         The material of the catalyst supplying pipe 22 is not particularly limited as long
as it is not corroded by the biocatalyst aqueous dispersion. The material of the catalyst
supplying pipe 22 is preferably, for example, stainless steel or the like.
         The inner diameter of the catalyst supplying pipe 22 is preferably 0.4 to 3 cm.
When the inner diameter of the catalyst supplying pipe 22 is equal to or more than the
lower limit, inactivation of enzymes over time caused by long-term retention of the
biocatalyst in the pipe can be suppressed. On the other hand, when the inner diameter
thereof is equal to or less than the upper limit, space saving is further achieved. It is
preferable that the catalyst supplying pipe 22 has a catalyst supply flow rate adjustment
means in order to control the reaction rate from acrylonitrile to acrylamide. As the
catalyst supply flow rate adjustment means (for example, a catalyst supply flow rate
adjustment unit), a method using a flow rate adjustment valve (a unit having a flow rate
adjustment valve), a method controlling power of the liquid feeding pump (for example,
a unit controlling power of the liquid feeding pump), and the like are mentioned. The
scheme of the catalyst supply flow rate adjustment means may be a scheme that
performs automatic control such that the concentration of acrylamide in the aqueous
solution of acrylamide flowing out from the reaction product collecting pipe 27, and as
necessary, the concentration of acrylonitrile are set to be in cooperation with the catalyst
supply flow rate adjustment means so that the reaction rate from acrylonitrile to
                                              9

acrylamide is adjusted to a predetermined range.
        In the invention, the concentration of acrylamide in the aqueous solution of
acrylamide (flowing out from the reaction product collecting pipe 27) after the
completion of reaction is preferably 30 to 65% by mass, more preferably 35 to 60% by
mass, and still more preferably 40 to 55% with respect to the mass of the aqueous
solution of acrylamide.
        When the concentration of acrylamide is higher than 65% by mass, crystals of
acrylamide easily precipitate near normal temperature, and thus a heating apparatus is
required so that not only facility costs are increased but also temperature control and
other operations are complicated. Therefore, the concentration of acrylamide in the
aqueous solution of acrylamide in the invention is not particularly limited as long as it is
within a range in which crystals of acrylamide do not precipitate even near normal
temperature, and is preferably 65% by mass or less, more preferably 60% by mass or
less, and most preferably 55% by mass or less.
        On the other hand, when the concentration of acrylamide is lower than 30% by
mass, it is economically disadvantageous from the industrial standpoint since the
volume of a tank to be used for storage or keeping is excessively large or transport costs
are increased. Therefore, the concentration of acrylamide in the aqueous solution of
acrylamide is preferably 30% by mass or more, more preferably 35% by mass or more,
and most preferably 40% by mass or more.
        The concentration of unreacted acrylonitrile in the aqueous solution of
acrylamide is preferably 200 ppm or less and more preferably 100 ppm or less.
        When the concentration of unreacted acrylonitrile in the aqueous solution of
acrylanide is adjusted to 200 ppm or less, the quality of an acrylamide-based polymer
obtained by polymerization of acrylamide can be improved, and the above-described
                                            10

concentration range is industrially preferable since a conversion yield from acrylonitrile
into acrylamide is high.
        In order to adjust the concentration of unreacted acrylonitrile in the aqueous
solution of aciylamide to 200 ppm or less, the supply amount or the like of the
biocatalyst to be supplied to the reaction tank may be appropriately adjusted. For
example, when the concentration of unreacted acrylonitrile in the aqueous solution of
acrylamide collected by the reaction product collecting pipe 27 is higher than 200 ppm,
the supply amount of the biocatalyst to be supplied to the reaction tank may be
increased.
        A biocatalyst supply port 29 in the catalyst supplying pipe 22 is preferably
positioned in the vicinity of the stirring blade 24 in order that the concentration of the
biocatalyst in the reaction tank 10 is not partially increased. However, the biocatalyst
may be supplied from the upper portion of the reaction liquid surface.
[0016] (Stirring Blade)
        The material of the stirring blade 24 is not particularly limited as long as it is not
corroded by the reaction liquid and a predetermined stirring power can be obtained. As
the material of the stirring blade 24, for example, stainless steel or the like is preferable.
In addition, the stirring power will be described in the reaction condition to be described
later.
        The shape of the stirring blade 24 is not particularly limited, and for example,
paddles, disc turbines, propellers, helical ribbons, anchors, Pfaudler stirrers., fan turbines,
and the like are mentioned.
[0017] (Reaction Liquid Feeding Pipe)
        The material of the reaction liquid feeding pipe 26 is not particularly limited as
long as it is not corroded by the reaction liquid. Also, as the material of the reaction
                                              11

liquid feeding pipe 26, for example, stainless steel or the like is preferable.
         The inner diameter of the reaction liquid feeding pipe 26 will be described in the
section "Reaction Condition" to be described later.
         The reaction liquid feeding pipe 26 is preferably inclined such that the upstream
side of the reaction liquid becomes higher from the viewpoint of preventing retention of
solid matters or the like of bacterial cells, which have produced enzyme, in the reaction
liquid.
[0018] (Reaction Product Collecting Pipe)
         The material of the reaction product collecting pipe 27 is not particularly limited
as long as it is not corroded by the acrylamide-containing aqueous solution. As the
material of the reaction product collecting pipe 27, for example, stainless steel or the
like is preferable.
         The inner diameter of the reaction product collecting pipe 27 is preferably 5 to
20 cm. When the inner diameter of the reaction product collecting pipe 27 is equal to or
more than the lower limit, the collecting flow rate of the acrylamide-containing aqueous
solution can be secured without requiring a large power for liquid feeding of the
reaction liquid. On the other hand, when the inner diameter of the reaction product
collecting pipe 27 is equal to or less than the upper limit, space saving is further
achieved.
[0019] [Acrylonitrile-Containing Liquid]
         The acrylonitrile-containing liquid is not particularly limited, and commercially
available products may be used or produced products may be used. In order to decrease
the consumption amount of the biocatalyst at the time of reaction, an acrylonitrile
containing liquid having a cyan concentration in acrylonitrile of 3 ppm or less is
preferable.
                                              12

        The concentration of acrylonitrile in the acrylonitrile-containing liquid is
preferably 90% by mass or more and more preferably 95% by mass or more with
respect to the acrylonitrile-containing liquid.
        When the concentration of acrylonitrile in the acrylonitrile-containing liquid is
adjusted to 90% by mass or more, the amount of impurities in aciylonitrile is small and
impurities in the aqueous solution of acrylamide produced by hydration of the
acrylonitrile-containing liquid are also decreased. Thus, the quality of the aqueous
solution of acrylamide is improved.
[0020] [Biocatalyst Aqueous Dispersion]
        Biocatalysts include animal cells, plant cells, organelles, bacterial cells (live
cells or dead cells), or treated products thereof that contain enzymes to catalyze target
reactions. Examples of the treated products include raw or purified enzymes extracted
from cells; and animal cells, plant cells, organelles, bacterial cells (live cells or dead
cells), or enzymes themselves immobilized by using a comprehensive method, a
crosslinking method, a carrier-binding method, or the like.
[0021] Herein, the comprehensive method is a method of wrapping bacterial cells or
enzymes in a fine mesh of a polymer gel or coating bacterial cells or enzymes with
semipermeable polymer membranes. In addition, the crosslinking method is a method of
crosslinking enzymes using a reagent having two or more functional groups
(polyfunctional crosslinking agent). Furthermore, the carrier-binding method is a
method of binding enzymes to a water-insoluble carrier.
[0022] Examples of bacteria producing enzymes include microorganisms that belong to
the genus Nocardia, the genus Corynebacterium, the genus Bacillus, the genus
Pseudomonas, the genus Micrococcus, the genus Rhodococcus, the genus Acinetobacter,
the genus Xanthobacter, the genus Streptomyces, the genus Rhizobium, the genus
                                              13

Klebsiella, the genus Enterobavter, the genus Erwinia, the genus Aeromonas, the genus
Citrobacter, the genus Achromobacter, the genus Agrobacterium, and the genus
Pseudonocardia.
        Among them, microorganisms that belong to the genus Rhodococcus are
preferable. The types of microorganisms that belong to the genus Rhodococcus are not
limited, and for example, Rhodococcus rhodochrous JI strain (Accession number:
FERM BP-1478; internationally deposited to International Patent Organism Depositary,
National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (Chuo 6, Higashi 1-1
1, Tsukuba-shi, Jbaraki, Japan) on September 18, 1987) and the like is more preferable.
        As microorganisms used in the invention, not only the above-described
microorganisms     but also those subjected to genetic modification             from those
microorganisms can be used. There is no limitation on methods or types of genetic
modification as long as a desired compound can be produced.
        Enzymes are not particularly limited as long as they can produce a desired
compound, and for example, a nitrile hydratase produced by the above-described
microorganisms is preferable.
[0023] The used amount of the biocatalyst varies depending on the types or forms of the
biocatalyst, but it is preferable that the activity of a biocatalyst to be introduced into a
reaction vessel is adjusted to be about 50 to 500 U (unit) per 1 mg of dry bacterial cells
at a reaction temperature of 10'C. Herein, the term "U (unit)" means enzyme activity to
produce 1 pmol/1 min of acrylamide from acrylonitrile, and represents a value
measured by using acrylonitrile to be used in production.
        The concentration of the biocatalyst in the biocatalyst aqueous dispersion is
preferably 1 to 20% by mass and more preferably 5 to 15% by mass with respect to the
biocatalyst aqueous dispersion.
                                              14

        When the concentration of the biocatalyst in the aqueous dispersion is adjusted
to 1% or more, a volume of a biocatalyst aqueous dispersion storage tank 32 can be
decreased and compactification of a production apparatus is achieved. On the other
hand, when the concentration of the biocatalyst in the aqueous dispersion is adjusted to
20% or less, a viscosity of the biocatalyst aqueous dispersion can be suppressed, and a
large quantity of energy is not required for liquid feeding. Thus, energy saving can be
achieved.
        Incidentally, the aqueous dispersion indicates an aqueous dispersion obtained by
dispersing a biocatalyst in a solvent. As the solvent, water is exemplified. The same
material as raw water may be used.
[0024] [Raw Water]
        Raw water is used for hydration reaction with aciylonitrile when acrylamide is
produced. Examples of raw water include water or aqueous solutions obtained by
dissolving acids or salts in water. Examples of acids include phosphoric acid, acetic acid,
citric acid, and boric acid. Examples of salts include sodium salts, potassium salts, and
ammonium salts of acids described above. Specific examples of raw water include,
although not particularly limited, water such as pure water, city water, and tap water;
and buffer solutions such as a tris buffer solution, a phosphate buffer solution, an acetate
buffer solution, a citrate buffer solution, and a borate buffer solution. The pH (at 25'C)
of the raw water is preferably 5 to 9.
[0025] The ratio of the acrylonitrile-containing liquid to the raw water which are
supplied to the reaction tank is expressed as [volume of the acrylonitrile-containing
liquid]/[volume of the raw water] and is preferably 0.4 to 1.2.
        When a value of [volume of the acrylonitrile-containing liquid]/[volume of the
raw water] is adjusted to 0.4 or more, the concentration of the aqueous solution of
                                              15

acrylamide produced by hydration of acrylonitrile can be easily adjusted to 30% or
more. On the other hand, when a value of [volume of the acrylonitrile-containing
liquid]/[volume of the raw water] is adjusted to 1.2 or less, the concentration of the
aqueous solution of acrylamide produced by hydration of acrylonitrile can be easily
suppressed to 65% or less.
        A ratio of the acrylonitrile-containing      liquid to the biocatalyst aqueous
dispersion which are supplied to the reaction tank is expressed as [volume of the
acrylonitrile-containing liquid]/[volume of the biocatalyst aqueous dispersion] and is
preferably 50 to 800.
        When a value of [volume of the acrylonitrile-containing liquid]/[volume of the
biocatalyst aqueous dispersion] is adjusted to 50 or more, the used amount of the
biocatalyst can be suppressed and deterioration of the quality of the aqueous solution of
acrylamide caused by incorporating a large amount of impurities derived from the
biocatalyst into the aqueous solution of acrylamide can be prevented. On the other hand,
when a value of [volume of the acrylonitrile-containing           liquid]/[volume of the
biocatalyst aqueous dispersion] is adjusted to 800 or less, the used amount of the
biocatalyst is decreased and the concentration of unreacted acrylonitrile in the aqueous
solution of acrylamide can be suppressed to less than 200 ppm.
[0026] [Reaction Condition]
        The method for producing acrylamide of this embodiment is performed in a state
in which the Reynolds number of the reaction liquid flowing in the reaction liquid
feeding pipe 26 is within a predetermined range. Further, the temperature of the reaction
liquid in the reaction tank 10 and the stirring power are appropriately set.
[0027] (Reynolds Number)
        In this embodiment, the Reynolds number of the reaction liquid flowing in the
                                              16

reaction liquid feeding pipe 26 is 1800 to 22000. The Reynolds number is preferably
2000 to 20000, more preferably 3000 to 15000, and still more preferably 5000 to 10000.
        When the Reynolds number is equal to or more than the lower limit, the
production efficiency of acrylamide can be improved. Moreover, since the prevention of
retention of the reaction mixture in the reaction liquid feeding pipe 26, suppression of
coloring of acrylamide, and prevention of polymerization of acrylamide, which is easily
polymerized, are achieved, the quality of the produced acrylamide can be increased. On
the other hand, when the Reynolds number is equal to or less than the upper limit, the
liquid surface difference of the reaction liquid between the upstream reaction tank 10
and the downstream reaction tank 10 is further decreased, and the net reaction volume
in the reaction tank 10 is further increased. Thus, the space saving of the continuous
tank reactor I and improvement in reaction efficiency are achieved.
[0028] The Reynolds number (Re) is obtained by the following equation.
        Re = V x d x p/p
        Re: Reynolds number
        V: Flow velocity (mi/s) of the reaction liquid in the reaction liquid feeding pipe
26
        d: Inner diameter (in) of the reaction liquid feeding pipe 26
        p: Density (kg/m 3) of the reaction liquid
        p: Viscosity (Pa-s) of the reaction liquid
[0029] Herein, the density of the reaction liquid and the viscosity of the reaction liquid
may vary depending on the temperature or the like of the reaction liquid, but since the
optimal temperature of the biocatalyst is maintained, it is difficult to change the
temperature of the reaction liquid largely so that it is difficult to artificially change the
density of the reaction liquid and the viscosity of the reaction liquid largely. Therefore,
                                              17

in this embodiment, the Reynolds number of the reaction liquid flowing in the reaction
liquid feeding pipe 26 is mainly adjusted by the flow velocity of the reaction liquid in
the reaction liquid feeding pipe 26 and the inner diameter of the reaction liquid feeding
pipe 26.
        Incidentally, in general, the density of the reaction liquid is preferably 1.0 to 1.2
kg/m, and the viscosity of the reaction liquid is preferably 1.5 to 5 Pa-s.
        In the present specification, for the measurement of the density, methods of
measurement using a pycnometer, measurement using a liquid weighing method,
measurement using a hydrometer, measurement using an oscillator densitometer, and
measurement using a magnetic levitation densitometer can be used. The viscosity can be
measured by methods such as a capillary tube viscometer method and a rotating
viscometer method.
[0030] Flow Velocity of Reaction Liquid in Reaction Liquid Feeding Pipe 26:
        For adjustment of the flow velocity of the reaction liquid in the reaction liquid
feeding pipe 26, a liquid feeding pump or a flow rate adjustment valve may be used or
may not be used. When the liquid feeding pump is used, pressure energy is generated in
the reaction liquid, and thus the flow velocity of the reaction liquid in the reaction liquid
feeding pipe 26 can be increased. However, from the viewpoint of energy saving, space
saving, cost suppression, and simplification of an apparatus, it is preferable that the flow
velocity is adjusted without using the liquid feeding pump.
        The flow velocity of the reaction liquid is preferably 0.1 to 1.5 m/s and more
preferably 0.5 to 1.1 m/s.
        Further., the flow rate can be measured by using a differential pressure flow
meter, an electromagnetic flow meter, an area flow meter, an ultrasonic flow meter, an
impeller flow meter, a thermal flow meter, a Coriolis flow meter, a volumetric flow
                                             18

meter, a vortex flow meter, a turbine flow meter, a pitot-tube flow meter, and the like.
The flow velocity of the reaction liquid can be obtained by dividing the measured flow
rate by a cross-sectional area of the reaction liquid feeding pipe 26.
[0031] In a case where the liquid feeding pump is not used, the flow of the reaction
liquid from the upstream reaction tank to the downstream reaction tank is generated by
using potential energy. Specifically, when the liquid surface of the upstream reaction
tank is maintained to be higher than the liquid surface of the downstream reaction tank,
the flow of the reaction liquid in the reaction liquid feeding pipe 26 toward the
downstream direction is generated (see the dotted line of Fig. 1 and the liquid surface of
each reaction tank 10).
        The flow velocity of the reaction liquid in the reaction liquid feeding pipe 26 is
further increased as the liquid surface difference is further increased, and the flow
velocity thereof is further decreased as the liquid surface difference is further decreased.
The liquid surface difference is appropriately controlled by adjusting the supply flow
rate of the acrylonitrile-containing liquid to the reaction tank 11, the supply flow rate of
the biocatalyst aqueous dispersion, the supply flow rate of the raw water, or the inner
diameter of the reaction liquid feeding pipe.
        In a case where reaction tanks having the same shape and the same internal
capacity are used, when the downstream reaction tank is disposed at the position lower
than that of the upstream reaction tank, the reaction volume in the reaction tank 10 can
be further increased. Thus, space saving and improvement in reaction efficiency are
further achieved.
[0032] In this embodiment, from the viewpoint of further achieving space saving, it is
preferable that the liquid surface difference is further decreased and the reaction volume
in the reaction tank 10 is further increased.
                                              19

        Specifically, the liquid surface difference between two reaction tanks directly
connected to each other is preferably 0.05 to 10 cm, more preferably 0.08 to 5 cm, and
still more preferably 0.1 to 3 cm.
        Further, the liquid surface difference between the most upstream reaction tank
and the most downstream reaction tank is preferably 0.1 to 80 cm, more preferably 0.3
to 50 cm, still more preferably 0.5 to 20 cm.
        When the liquid surface difference is equal to or more than the lower limit, the
reaction liquid can be fed from the upstream reaction tank 10 to the downstream
reaction tank 10 by potential energy. Further, since the flow velocity of the reaction
liquid in the reaction liquid feeding pipe 26 is increased and a sufficient Reynolds
number can be obtained, the retention of the reaction liquid in the reaction liquid
feeding pipe 26 can be suppressed. On the other hand, when the liquid surface
difference is equal to or less than the upper limit, since the flow velocity is not increased
too much and the Reynolds number is not increased too much, a sufficient reaction
volume can be secured.
[0033] Inner Diameter of Reaction Liquid Feeding Pipe 26:
        The reaction liquid feeding pipe 26 preferably has a cylindrical shape, and the
inner diameter of the reaction liquid feeding pipe 26 is preferably 2 to 80 m, more
preferably 3 to 50 in, and still more preferably 5 to 30 m. When the inner diameter of
the reaction liquid feeding pipe 26 is equal to or more than the lower limit, a desired
Reynolds number can be obtained without using pressure energy generated by the liquid
feeding pump and the liquid surface difference can be further decreased. On the other
hand, when the inner diameter of the reaction liquid feeding pipe 26 is equal to or less
than the upper limit, the reaction volume in the reaction tank 10 can be further increased,
and thus space saving and improvement in reaction efficiency are further achieved.
                                             20

        Incidentally, in a case where the reaction liquid feeding pipe 26 does not have a
cylindrical shape, an equivalent diameter can be used as the inner diameter. The
equivalent diameter can be calculated by the following calculation formula.
        De = 4Af/Wp [in]
        De: Equivalent diameter [in]
        Af: Passage cross-sectional area [m2
        Wp: Wetted perimeter length [in]
        The inner diameter of the reaction liquid feeding pipe 26 with respect to the
inner volume of the reaction tank 10 is preferably 3 to 30 cm/m 3 and more preferably 5
to 15 cm/n 3 . When the inner diameter of the reaction liquid feeding pipe 26 with
respect to the inner volume of the reaction tank 10 is equal to or more than the lower
limit, a desired Reynolds number can be obtained without using pressure energy
generated by the liquid feeding pump and the liquid surface difference can be further
decreased. On the other hand, when the inner diameter of the reaction liquid feeding
pipe 26 is equal to or less than the upper limit, space saving is further achieved.
[0034] (Temperature of Reaction Liquid)
        The temperature of the reaction liquid is preferably 15 to 40'C and more
preferably 20 to 35'C. When the temperature of the reaction liquid is equal to or more
than the lower limit, it is easy to sufficiently increase reaction activity of the biocatalyst.
On the other hand, when the temperature of the reaction liquid is equal to or less than
the upper limit, inactivation of the biocatalyst is prevented.
[0035] (Stirring Power)
        The stirring power of the reaction liquid per unit volume by the stirring blade 24
is preferably 0.08 to 0.7 kW/m,33 more preferably 0.09 to 0.6 kW/m3 , and still more
preferably 0.1 to 0.4 kW/m .
                                               21

        When the stirring power is equal to or more than the lower limit, the contact or
dispersibility between acrylonitrile and the biocatalyst is improved and conversion
efficiency from acrylonitrile into acrylamide is increased. Moreover, a reduction of the
heat-transfer performance in the reaction tank 10 can be suppressed, temperature
controllability of the reaction liquid is improved, and energy consumption of a cooler is
decreased. On the other hand, when the stirring power is equal to or less than the upper
limit, deterioration of the biocatalyst is suppressed, and catalyst reaction efficiency from
acrylonitrile to acrylamide is increased.
[0036] <Another Embodiment of Method for Producing Compound>
[Compound Production System]
        Hereinafter, as another embodiment of the method for producing a compound of
the invention, a compound production system 2 will be described by means of Fig. 2.
        The production system 2 illustrated in Fig. 2 is provided with an alkali solution
storage tank 31, a biocatalyst aqueous dispersion storage tank 32, a portable container
33, an alkali solution supplying pipe 34, a catalyst supplying pipe 35, an acrylonitrile
supplying pipe 36, a raw water supplying pipe 37, and a motor 38, in addition to the
configurations of the continuous tank reactor 1.
        Incidentally, the same configurations in the production system 2 as the
configurations of the continuous tank reactor I are the same as the embodiment of the
aforementioned method for producing acrylamide, and thus the description thereof is
omitted. Further, in Fig. 2, the same symbols as in Fig. I are given to the same
configurations as the configurations illustrated in Fig. 1.
        Hereinafter, the alkali solution storage tank 31, the biocatalyst aqueous
dispersion storage tank 32, and the portable container 33 in Fig. 2 will be described in
detail.
                                              22

[0037] (Alkali Solution Storage Tank)
         The alkali solution storage tank 31 is a tank storing an alkali solution used for
controlling the pH of the reaction liquid in the reaction tank 10. In the embodiment of
Fig. 2, the alkali solution to be stored in the alkali solution storage tank 31 is supplied to
two reaction tanks 11 through the alkali solution supplying pipe 34.
         The material of the alkali solution storage tank 31 is not particularly limited as
long as it is not corroded by the alkali solution. The material of the alkali solution
storage tank 31 is preferably, for example, stainless steel or the like.
         The volume of the alkali solution storage tank 31 is appropriately set according
to the process speed, but is preferably such a volume that enables each tank or two or
more tanks to be accommodated in the portable container 33.
[0038] (Biocatalyst Aqueous Dispersion Storage Tank)
         The biocatalyst aqueous dispersion storage tank 32 is a tank storing the
biocatalyst aqueous dispersion. When acrylamide is produced, the biocatalyst aqueous
dispersion to be stored in the biocatalyst aqueous dispersion storage tank 32 is fed to
any of the reaction tanks 10 through the catalyst supplying pipe 35. In the embodiment
of Fig. 2, the biocatalyst aqueous dispersion is supplied only to the most upstream
reaction tank 10.
         The material of the biocatalyst aqueous dispersion storage tank 32 is not
particularly limited as long as it is not corroded by the biocatalyst. For example,
stainless steel or the like can be used as the material of the biocatalyst aqueous
dispersion storage tank 32.
         The volume of the biocatalyst aqueous dispersion storage tank 32 is
appropriately set according to the process speed, but is preferably such a volume that
enables each tank or two or more tanks to be accommodated in the portable container 33.
                                               23

[0039] (Portable Container)
         The portable container 33 is used for accommodating and transporting the
reaction tank 10, the alkali solution storage tank 31, and the biocatalyst aqueous
dispersion storage tank 32. The portable container 33 is used, as necessary, for
accommodating and transporting a purification apparatus of acrylamide.
         The portable container 33 may accommodate any one or more tanks of the
reaction tanks 10, the alkali solution storage tank 31, and the biocatalyst aqueous
dispersion storage tank 32. It is preferable that the portable container 33 accommodates
at least one tank of the reaction tanks 10.
         Further, the volume of the reaction tank 10 to be accommodated in each portable
container is preferably 6.4 m3 to3 22.9~33
                                        m , more preferably 7.7 to 19.2 m , and still more
preferably 11.5 to 15.3 M3 . When the volume of the reaction tank to be accommodated
in the portable container is adjusted to 6.4 m3 or more, production efficiency with
respect to space can be further improved. When the volume of the reaction tank to be
accommodated in the portable container is adjusted to 22.9 m3 or less, effects of
improving operability in the portable container and maintenance properties are obtained.
         In a case where the reaction tanks 10 are accommodated in a plurality of
portable containers, the volume of the reaction tank 10 means the volume of the reaction
tank 10 in each portable container.
         Further, in the compound production system 2 of this embodiment, only one
portable container 33 may be provided or two or more portable containers 33 may be
provided. In a case where two or more portable containers 33 are provided, the portable
containers 33 may be horizontally arranged and used or be stacked and used when
acrylanmide is produced.
         From the viewpoint of energy saving, it is preferable that the acrylonitrile
                                             24

containing liquid, the biocatalyst aqueous dispersion, the reaction liquid, and the like are
fed by using potential energy without using the liquid feeding pump. Form the
viewpoint of space saving, it is preferable that the portable containers 33 are stacked
and used as illustrated in Fig. 2. In addition, when the motor 38 rotating the stirring
blade 24 is disposed in the stacked portable container 33 at the upper side, as compared
to a case where the motor 38 is disposed directly on the reaction tank 10, the volume of
the reaction tank 10 is easily increased and maintenance is easily performed.
[0040] The size of the portable container 33 is not particularly limited as long as it is a
size in which any of the aforementioned tanks can be accommodated and transportation
can be carried out, but a normalized portable container that can be transported by
trailers, freight trains, ships, and the like is preferable. For example, a portable container
normalized according to ISO 668 or the like is mentioned. Regarding the specific size, a
portable container having a size of about 2.4 m (width) x about 2.9 in (height) x about
13 m (depth), and the like are exemplified, and as specific normalized examples, a 20
feet container, a 40 feet container, a 45 feet container, and the like are mentioned.
         The volume of the reaction tank in each portable container 33 (the total volume
of the plurality of reaction tanks in a case where a plurality of reaction tanks are
accommodated in each portable container) is preferably 1/6 to 3/5 of the inner volume
of each portable container 33 and more preferably 1/4 to 1/2 of the inner volume of each
portable container 33. When the volume of the reaction tank in each portable container
33 is equal to or more than the lower limit, production efficiency with respect to space
is further improved. On the other hand, when the volume of the reaction tank in each
portable container 33 is equal to or less than the upper limit, operation space can be
sufficiently secured.
[0041] In production of acrylamide, the value obtained by dividing the inner volume
                                                25

   3
(M )  of the portable container by the flow rate (m 3/hour) of the reaction liquid flowing
in the reaction tank accommodated in the portable container is preferably 5 to 70 hours
and more preferably 15 to 65 hours. When the value is equal to or more than the lower
limit, a more sufficient concentration of the acrylamide-containing aqueous solution is
obtained, and the concentration of unreacted acrylonitrile in the obtained acrylamide
containing aqueous solution is further decreased. Thus, the quality of the acrylamide
containing aqueous solution is further improved. On the other hand., when the value is
equal to or less than the upper limit, production efficiency with respect to space is
further improved. Incidentally, the measurement method of the flow rate is as described
above.
[0042] [Compound to be Produced]
        The method for producing a compound of the invention is characterized in that
when the Reynolds number of the reaction liquid flowing in the reaction liquid feeding
pipe is set to be in a predetermined range, space saving is achieved without a decrease
in production efficiency. Therefore, a compound to be produced by the method for
producing a compound of the invention is not limited to the aforementioned acrylamide,
and may be another compound which is known to be industrially produced.
        The compound to which the method for producing a compound of the invention
is applied is not particularly limited as long as it is a compound to be produced by
chemical reaction, but a compound to be produced by chemical reaction in the presence
of the biocatalyst is preferable.
        Specific examples of a compound to be produced include amide compounds
having an amide group in the molecule, and specifically, acryl compounds such as
acrylanide, nicotinamide, 5-cyanovaleroamide, and methacrylamide are exemplified. In
particular, acrylamide is preferable.
                                            26

        Examples of raw materials producing these compounds include acrylonitrile, 3
cyanopyridine. 1,4-dicyanobutane, and methacrylonitrile. In particular, acrylonitrile is
preferable.
[0043] <Effect of Invention>
        Hereinbefore, according to the invention, it is possible to provide a method for
producing a compound using continuous reaction in which space saving is achieved
without a decrease in production efficiency. Furthermore, a production system of the
invention can be carried to a place in which there is a demand for using the production
system and can start industrial production of a compound in a short time.
[0044] Since the reaction tank used in the method for producing a compound of the
invention achieves space saving, that is, is decreased in size, the reaction tank can also
be accommodated in the portable container. Then, the portable container can be
transported by trailers, freight trains, ships, and the like while accommodating the
reaction tank. For such reasons, the compound production system of the invention can
be timely carried into a place in which there is a demand for using the compound
production system and used, and in a case where there is no demand for using the
compound production system, the compound production system can be carried to a next
place in which there is a demand for using the compound production system.
        Further, the compound production system is completed only by appropriately
disposing the portable container while the reaction tank is accommodated in the portable
container, and installing pipes between containers. For such a reason, when industrial
production of a compound is started, since there is no need for fundamental construction
in the installation of the continuous tank reactor, construction period can be shortened
and construction costs are suppressed.
[0045] In the compound production system of the invention, when the portable
                                            27

containers accommodating the reaction tanks are stacked and used, space saving is also
achieved.
        When the portable container accommodating the tank positioned at the further
upstream side in the reaction process is stacked at further upper side, the reaction liquid
can be fed by using potential energy without using the liquid feeding pump, and thus
energy saving is also achieved.
[0046] A person skilled in the art who will perform the method for producing a
compound and does not have a reaction tank can newly dispose the continuous tank
reactor or production system used in the method for producing a compound of the
invention without requiring construction costs and construction period, and thus can
perform the method for producing a compound of the invention. Further, a person
skilled in the art who has already had the continuous tank reactor can properly expand
or replace a reaction tank or a reaction liquid feeding pipe, and thus can perform the
method for producing a compound of the invention.
EXAMPLES
[0047] Hereinafter, the invention will be described in more detail by means of
Examples: however, the invention is not limited to these Examples.
[0048] <Example 1>
[Preparation of Biocatalyst]
        Rhodococcus rhodochrous JI strain having nitrile hydratase activity (Accession
number: FERM BP-1478; internationally deposited to International Patent Organism
Depositary, National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (Chuo 6,
Higashi 1-1-1, Tsukuba-shi, Ibaraki, Japan) on September 18, 1987) was aerobically
cultured in a medium (pH 7.0) containing 2% by mass of glucose, 1% by mass of urea,
                                            28

0.5% by mass of peptone, 0.3% by mass of yeast extract, and 0.01% by mass of cobalt
chloride hexahydrate at 300 C.
        After cultivation, the obtained culture was subjected to harvest using a
centrifuge. Then, the bacterial cells were suspended in 0.1% by mass of aqueous
solution of sodium acrylate (pH 7.0) and the harvest and washing operation was
performed five times by using a centrifuge again. Then, the bacterial cells were
suspended in 0.1% by mass of aqueous solution of sodium acrylate (pH 7.0). thereby
preparing a bacterial cell suspension containing 15% by mass of dry bacterial cells. The
bacterial cell suspension was transferred to the biocatalyst aqueous dispersion storage
tank in the portable container having a size of 2.5 m (width) x 2.5 m (height) x 6 m
(depth) and was cooled to 5'C until the following reaction, and then the bacterial cell
suspension was used as the biocatalyst aqueous dispersion at the time of the following
reaction.
[0049] [Reaction from Acrylonitrile to Acrylamide]
        The reaction was performed by using a production system illustrated in Fig. 2.
        Specifically, SUS reaction tanks having an inner volume of 2 m3 (1.3 m (width)
x 1.3 im (depth) x 1.3 m (height)) were connected in series via a reaction liquid feeding
pipe having an inner diameter of 5 cm and a length of I m, and the reaction was
performed by using a continuous tank reactor in which a stirring blade (paddle type,
blade diameter: 45 cm) was provided in each reaction tank. Four tanks of the reaction
tanks were accommodated in each of two portable containers having a size of 2.5 m
(width) x 2.5 m (height) x 6 m (depth) other than the portable container accommodating
the aforementioned biocatalyst aqueous dispersion storage tank, and then the eight tanks
were connected in series. The proportion of the reaction tanks (four tanks) in one
container was set to 23%. The reaction tanks were designated as a first tank, a second
                                           29

tank, a third tank, a fourth tank, a fifth tank, a sixth tank, a seventh tank, and an eighth
tank (hereinafter, the eighth tank is referred to as "most downstream reaction tank")
from the upstream side of the reaction liquid.
         The first tank was provided with the acrylonitrile supplying pipe, the raw water
supplying pipe, the catalyst supplying pipe, and the alkali solution supplying pipe. The
second tank was provided with the acrylonitrile supplying pipe and the alkali solution
supplying pipe. The third tank and the fourth tank were provided with only acrylonitrile
supplying pipe. The most downstream reaction tank was provided with the overflow
type reaction product collecting pipe.
[0050] In this Example, the biocatalyst aqueous dispersion refrigerated in the
biocatalyst aqueous dispersion storage tank in the portable container was supplied to the
first tank through the catalyst supplying pipe.
         In this Example, the alkali solution storage tank was also accommodated in the
portable container accommodating the biocatalyst aqueous dispersion storage tank.
Then, the alkali solution stored in the alkali solution storage tank was supplied to the
first tank and the second tank through the alkali solution supplying pipe.
         Further, the aqueous solution of acrylonitrile stored in the acrylonitrile storage
tank disposed outside the portable container was supplied to the first tank to the fourth
tank through the acrylonitrile supplying pipe.
         Further, the raw water stored in the raw water storage tank disposed outside the
portable container was supplied to the first tank through the raw water supplying pipe.
[0051] In this Example, 1.8 m3 of 50% by mass aqueous solution of acrylamide was
introduced into the first tank to the seventh tank in advance before the start of the
reaction.
         The reaction was started by supplying the aqueous solution of acrylonitrile
                                              30

(concentration: 99.6% by mass, manufactured by MITSUBISHI RAYON CO., LTD.),
the raw water, and the biocatalyst aqueous dispersion to the reaction tanks of the first
tank to the fourth tank at the total supply flow ratio (the aqueous solution of
acrylonitrile : the raw water : the biocatalyst aqueous dispersion) of 1.00 : 1.32 : 0.01. In
this Example, the total of the flow rates of the aqueous solution of acrylonitrile, the raw
water, and the biocatalyst aqueous dispersion was designated as a raw material supply
amount. The raw material supply flow rate was adjusted such that the Reynolds number
in each reaction liquid feeding pipe became 2000 to 2500.
         The value obtained by dividing the inner volume (in 3 ) of the portable container
by the flow rate (n'/hour) of the reaction liquid flowing in the reaction tank
accommodated in the portable container was set to about 50 hours.
         During the reaction, 2% by mass of aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide was
added from the alkali solution storage tank such that the pH of the reaction mixture in
the first to fourth reaction tanks was adjusted to 7.0. The liquid feeding at the time of
supplying the biocatalyst aqueous dispersion and 2% by mass of aqueous solution of
sodium hydroxide was performed without using the liquid feeding pump by potential
energy obtained by stacking the portable container accommodating the biocatalyst
aqueous dispersion storage tank and the alkali solution storage tank on the portable
container accommodating the first tank to the fourth tank. Further, the operation was
performed such that the height of the liquid surface of the reaction liquid in the first
tank occupied about 90% of the inner volume.
         The reaction was performed under conditions including a reaction liquid
temperature of 25'C and a stirring power of 0.2 kW/m .
         During the reaction, the liquid surface difference between reaction tanks of the
first tank and the second tank was 5 mm or less.
                                             31

        Further, the flow rate of the aqueous solution of acrylamide flowing out from the
overflow type reaction product collecting pipe during an hour from the start of the
reaction under this condition was 99% or more of the raw material supply amount.
[0052] The concentration of acrylamide in the acrylamide-containing aqueous solution
flowing out from the reaction product collecting pipe was measured by using a digital
refractometer (manufactured by ATAGO CO., LTD.). Moreover, the concentration of
unreacted acrylonitrile in the acrylamide-containing aqueous solution was measured by
using gas chromatography (column: manufactured by Waters, PoraPack-PS, I in, 180'C.
carrier gas: helium, detector: FID).
        From the viewpoint of the quality of acrylamide, it is desirable that the
concentration of aciylamide in the acrylamide-containing aqueous solution flowing out
from the reaction product collecting pipe is 50% by mass or more and the concentration
of unreacted acrylonitrile is less than 100 ppm.
        In this Example, the concentration of acrylamide in the aciylamide-containing
aqueous solution flowing out from the reaction product collecting pipe was 50.5% by
mass, the concentration of acrylonitrile was 10 ppm or less, and it was possible to
perform stable operation for three weeks or longer from the start of the reaction.
[0053] <Example 2>
        An acrylamide-containing aqueous solution was collected in the same manner as
in Example 1, except that the raw material supply flow rate was adjusted such that the
Reynolds number of the reaction liquid flowing in each reaction liquid feeding pipe to
5000 to 5500, and then the concentration thereof was measured.
        The value obtained by dividing the inner volume     (M3) of the portable container
by the flow rate (mi/hour) of the reaction liquid flowing in the reaction tank
accommodated in the portable container was set to about 20 hours.
                                             32

        Incidentally, during the reaction, the liquid surface difference between the
reaction tanks of the first tank and the second tank was 10 to 20 mm.
        Further, the flow rate of the aqueous solution of acrylamide flowing out from the
overflow type reaction product collecting pipe during an hour from the start of the
reaction under this condition was 95% or more of the raw material supply amount.
        In this Example, the concentration of acrylamide in the acrylamide-containing
aqueous solution flowing out from the reaction product collecting pipe was 50.4% by
mass, the concentration of acrylonitrile was 10 ppm or less, and it was possible to
perform stable operation for three weeks or longer from the start of the reaction.
[0054] <Example 3>
        An acrylamide-containing aqueous solution was collected in the same manner as
in Example 1, except that the raw material supply flow rate was adjusted such that the
Reynolds number of the reaction liquid flowing in each reaction liquid feeding pipe to
10000 to 11000, and then the concentration thereof was measured.
        The value obtained by dividing the inner volume (in3 ) of the portable container
by the flow rate (m3/hour) of the reaction liquid flowing in the reaction tank
accommodated in the portable container was set to about 10 hours.
        Incidentally, during the reaction, the liquid surface difference between the
reaction tanks of the first tank and the second tank was 30 to 45 mm.
        Further, the flow rate of the aqueous solution of acrylamide flowing out from the
overflow type reaction product collecting pipe during an hour from the start of the
reaction under this condition was 93% or more of the raw material supply amount.
        In this Example, the concentration of acrylamide in the acrylamide-containing
aqueous solution flowing out from the reaction product collecting pipe was 50.3% by
mass, the concentration of acrylonitrile was 25 ppm, and it was possible to perform
                                             33

stable operation for three weeks or longer from the start of the reaction.
[0055] <Example 4>
        An acrylamide-containing aqueous solution was collected in the same manner as
in Example 1, except that the raw material supply flow rate was adjusted such that the
Reynolds number of the reaction liquid flowing in each reaction liquid feeding pipe to
18000 to 20000, and then the concentration thereof was measured.
                                                               3
        The value obtained by dividing the inner volume     (M )  of the portable container
by the flow rate (m 3/hour) of the reaction liquid flowing in the reaction tank
accommodated in the portable container was set to about 5 hours.
        Incidentally, during the reaction, the liquid surface difference between the
reaction tanks of the first tank and the second tank was 90 to 100 mm.
        Further, the flow rate of the aqueous solution of aciylamide flowing out from the
overflow type reaction product collecting pipe during an hour from the start of the
reaction under this condition was 90% or more of the raw material supply amount.
        In this Example, the concentration of acrylamide in the acrylamide-containing
aqueous solution flowing out from the reaction product collecting pipe was 50.1% by
mass, the concentration of acrylonitrile was 50 ppm, and it was possible to perform
stable operation for three weeks or longer from the start of the reaction.
[0056] <Comparative Example 1>
        An acrylamide-containing aqueous solution was collected in the same manner as
in Example 1, except that the raw material supply flow rate was adjusted such that the
Reynolds number of the reaction liquid flowing in each reaction liquid feeding pipe to
1000 to 1500, and then the concentration thereof was measured.
        The value obtained by dividing the inner volume (in 3 ) of the portable container
by the flow rate (m 3/hour) of the reaction liquid flowing in the reaction tank
                                             34

accommodated in the portable container was set to about 100 hours.
        Incidentally, during the reaction, the liquid surface difference between the
reaction tanks of the first tank and the second tank was 10 mm or less.
        Further, the flow rate of the aqueous solution of acrylamide flowing out from the
overflow type reaction product collecting pipe during an hour from the start of the
reaction under this condition was 99% or more of the raw material supply amount.
        In this Example, the concentration of acrylamide in the acrylamide-containing
aqueous solution flowing out from the reaction product collecting pipe was 50.5% by
mass, and the concentration of acrylonitrile was 10 ppm or less. However, after 3 days
from the start of the reaction, settling of the biocatalyst occurred in the reaction liquid
feeding pipe. Further, the aqueous solution of acrylamide flowing out from the reaction
product collecting pipe was colored in faint yellow, and a small amount of a pop corn
like acrylamide polymer was mixed.
[0057] <Comparative Example 2>
        An acrylamide-containing aqueous solution was collected in the same manner as
in Example 1, except that the raw material supply flow rate was adjusted such that the
Reynolds number of the reaction liquid flowing in each reaction liquid feeding pipe to
23000 to 25000, and then the concentration thereof was measured.
        The value obtained by dividing the inner volume (in3 ) of the portable container
by the flow rate (m3/hour) of the reaction liquid flowing in the reaction tank
accommodated in the portable container was set to about 4 hours.
        Incidentally, during the reaction, the liquid surface difference between the
reaction tanks of the first tank and the second tank was 200 mm or more.
        Further, the flow rate of the aqueous solution of acrylamide flowing out from the
overflow type reaction product collecting pipe during an hour from the start of the
                                             35

reaction under this condition was 70% or less of the raw material supply amount.
Further, the reaction liquid in the first tank reached 98% or more of the inner volume of
the reaction tank.
         Furthermore, the concentration of acrylamide in the acrylamide-containing
aqueous solution flowing out from the reaction product collecting pipe was 49.5% by
mass, and the concentration of acrylonitrile was 2000 ppm or more.
         In this Comparative Example., the concentration of acrylamide and the
concentration of aciylonitrile in the aqueous solution of acrylamide flowing out from
the reaction product collecting pipe were not in the range that was desirable in terms of
quality, and there was a concern that the reaction liquid of the reaction tank of the first
tank might be overflowed. For such reasons, operation was stopped after an hour from
the start of the reaction.
INDUSTRIAL APPLICABILITY
[0058] According to the invention, it is possible to provide a method for producing a
compound using continuous reaction in which space saving is achieved without a
decrease in production efficiency. Further, a production system of the invention can be
carried to a place in which there is a demand for using the production system and can
start industrial production of a compound in a short time.
EXPLANATIONS OF LETTERS OR NUMERALS
[0059] 1. Continuous tank reactor;
         2. Production system;
         10 to 13. Reaction tank;
         21, 36. Aciylonitrile supplying pipe;
                                              36

22, 35. Catalyst supplying pipe;
23, 37. Raw water supplying pipe;
24. Stirring blade;
25. Acid/alkali solution supplying pipe;
26. Reaction liquid feeding pipe;
27. Reaction product collecting pipe;
28. Acrylonitrile supply port;
29. Biocatalyst supply port;
31. Alkali solution storage tank;
32. Biocatalyst aqueous dispersion storage tank;
33. Portable container;
34. Alkali solution supplying pipe; and
38. Motor
                                    37

   CLAIMS
   1.      A method for producing a compound using a continuous tank reactor which is
   provided with two or more reaction tanks for producing a compound and a reaction
 5 liquid feeding pipe that feeds a reaction liquid from an upstream reaction tank to a
   downstream reaction tank, wherein
           a Reynolds number of the reaction liquid flowing in the reaction liquid feeding
   pipe is set to 1800 to 22000.
10 2.      A compound production system being used in the method for producing a
   compound according to claim 1, wherein at least one tank of the reaction tanks is
   accommodated in a portable container.
   3.      The compound production system according to claim 2, wherein when at least
15 one tank of the reaction tanks is accommodated in the portable container,
           a total volume of the at least one tank of the reaction tanks accommodated in the
   portable container is 1/6 to 3/5 of an inner volume of the portable container.
   4.      The method for producing a compound according to claim 1. wherein the
20 method uses the compound production system according to claim 2, and a value
   obtained by dividing an inner volume (m3) of the portable container by a flow rate
   (m3/hour) of the reaction liquid flowing in the reaction tank accommodated in the
   portable container is 5 to 70 hours.
25 5.      The compound production system according to claim 2 or 3, wherein another
   portable container is disposed on the portable container in which the reaction tank is
   accommodated.
   6.      A method for producing acrylamide using the method for producing a
30 compound according to claim 1, the acrylamide production method comprising:
           a step of supplying an acrylonitile-containing liquid to at least one tank of the
   reaction tanks;
           a step of supplying raw water to at least one tank of the reaction tanks; and
           a step of supplying a biocatalyst aqueous dispersion to at least one tank of the
35 reaction tanks.
                                                38

  7.      The compound production system according to claim 2, wherein a volume of the
  reaction tank accommodated in the portable container is 6.4 m3 to 22.9 m3.
  8.      The compound production system according to claim 2, wherein the compound
5 is an aide compound.
  9.      The compound production system according to claim 2, wherein the compound
  is acrylamide.
                                           39

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
