                  PROPPANT MATERIAL INCORPORATING FLY ASH
                           AND METHOD OF MANUFACTURE
                                          ABSTRACT
A method of manufacturing a round proppant material includes forming round granules
comprising fly ash and clay, wherein the fly ash is the primary component by weight, adding a
separating agent to the round granules, calcining the round granules at a temperature in a range
between 900    C and 1150 C, and sintering the round granules at a temperature in a range
between 10500 C and 1350 C.
                                                22

                 PROPPANT MATERIAL INCORPORATING FLY ASH
                           AND METHOD OF MANUFACTURE
                           BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0001]        Hydraulic fracturing is the fracturing of various rock layers by a pressurized
       liquid. This is useful in oil and gas operations, as the fractures created by the hydraulic
       fracturing can serve as enhanced flow paths to the well for oil or gas trapped in rock
       formations. However, once the fractures have been created, they must be "propped"
       open by some means because otherwise the fractures will close when the pressure from
       the high pressure liquid used to create the fractures is relieved.
[0002]        Crush resistant particles, referred to as "proppant", may be pumped into the
       fractures after they have been created to hold the fractures open. It is desirable that
       such proppant materials be both very crush resistant (so that the forces exerted on them
       by the fractures as they try to close do not crush them, which would permit the fractures
       to close) and have a relatively low specific gravity (so that they may be transported
       easily into the fractures by a fluid pumped into the well). These two properties often
       can be somewhat at odds with each other, because an increase in crush resistance
       typically tends to result in a material being more dense.
[0003]       Because proppant materials typically are sold by weight rather than by volume, a
       proppant material having a relatively low density will actually have a lower effective
       cost to the user even if it is sold at the same price per pound as a more dense proppant
       material.   It is also desirable that the proppant particles be relatively spherical to
       maximize the spaces between proppant particles and the ease with which fluids will
       flow through such spaces. Depending on the proppant material, crushing of proppant
       particles can result in the creation of many very fine particles which could block some
       of the spaces between the remaining larger proppant particles, reducing the ability of
       fluids to flow through those spaces. Accordingly, it is desirable that, when the crush
       strength of the proppant material is exceeded, the proppant particles break into a few
       relatively large fragments rather than become pulverized.              Depending on the
                                                 1

       application, different sizes of proppant particles may be used, although it is desirable
       that the proppant particles be of a relatively uniform size.
[0004]        Bauxite is a common aluminum ore. Bauxite is composed primarily of one or
       more aluminum hydroxide minerals, plus various mixtures of silica (SiO 2 ), iron oxide
       (Fe2O 3 ), titania (TiO 2), aluminosilicate, and other impurities in minor amounts.
       Sintered bauxite has been used in the past as a proppant material because particles
       made essentially from bauxite, when sintered, form a relatively hard, crush resistant
       material. However, bauxite has a relatively high specific gravity and sintered bauxite is
       considered a relatively heavy-weight (i.e., higher density) ceramic proppant material.
       Moreover, the quality requirements for bauxite used to make a sintered bauxite
       proppant material are very strict in order to provide the required strength. There are
       only a relatively few sources of bauxite that are suitable for producing a sintered
       bauxite proppant material because of the impurities present in most bauxites.
                          BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0005]        According to one aspect of one or more embodiments of the present invention, a
       round proppant material includes a core where the core is made of fly ash and clay,
       wherein the fly ash is the primary component by weight. A separating agent is applied
       to the core during manufacture.
[0006]        According to one aspect of one or more embodiments of the present invention, a
       method of manufacturing a round proppant material includes forming round granules
       comprising fly ash and clay, wherein the fly ash is the primary component by weight,
       adding a separating agent to the round granules, calcining the round granules at a
       temperature in a range between 900 'C and 1150 *C, and sintering the round granules
       at a temperature in a range between 1050 'C and 1350 'C.
[0007]        According to one aspect of one or more embodiments of the present invention, a
       round proppant material includes a core that is made of fly ash, bauxite, and clay,
       wherein the fly ash is the primary component by weight. A separating agent is applied
       to the core during manufacture.
[0008]        According to one aspect of one or more embodiments of the present invention, a
       method of manufacturing a round proppant material includes forming round granules
                                                 2

       comprising fly ash, bauxite, and clay, wherein the fly ash is the primary component by
       weight, adding a separating agent to the round granules, calcining the round granules at
       a temperature in a range between 900' C and 1150 C, and sintering the round granules
       at a temperature in a range between 1050 C and 1350 C.
[0009]        Other aspects of the present invention will be apparent from the following
       description and claims.
                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0010]        One or more embodiments of the present invention are described in detail. In the
       following detailed description of the invention, specific details are set forth in order to
       provide a thorough understanding of the invention.       In other instances, well-known
       features to one of ordinary skill in the art are not described to avoid obscuring the
       description of the invention.
[0011]        Embodiments described herein generally relate to proppant materials which may
       be used in hydraulic fracturing operations in oil and gas wells, and methods of
       manufacturing the same.
[0012]        Specifically, one or more embodiments of the present invention relate to light
       weight (i.e., lower density) ceramic proppant materials made primarily from fly ash.
       Fly ash comprises the fine particles that rise with the flue gases, and in industrial
       applications, usually refers to ash particles produced during the combustion of coal.
       The components of fly ash vary considerably, but all fly ash includes substantial
       amounts of silicon dioxide (Si0 2) and, in some cases, substantial amounts of calcium
       oxide   (CaO), ferric oxide    (Fe203), and/or aluminum oxide (A12 0 3) which           are
       components of many coal-bearing rock strata. Other components of the fly ash depend
       upon the specific coal bed makeup.
[0013]        An advantage of using fly ash in embodiments of the present invention is that fly
       ash has a relatively low density compared to bauxite, the specific gravity of which may
       vary from about 2.5 to 3.5, depending on its specific composition, while the specific
       gravity of fly ash may vary from about 2.0 to 2.5. Another advantage of using fly ash
       in embodiments of the present invention is that the disposal of fly ash has become
       problematic with significant environmental implications, making opportunities for the
                                              3

       recycling of fly ash desirable. Currently, most fly ash produced from coal-fired power
       stations is disposed of in landfills and ash ponds. The single largest recycling use at
       present for fly ash is to replace a portion of the Portland cement content in concrete.
       Advantageously, the present invention permits recycling of fly ash waste into a material
       that is useful in hydraulic fracturing operations in oil and gas wells.
[0014]        While fly ash has been proposed to be used as a component of a proppant
       material, past efforts to make a commercially successful ceramic proppant material
       containing a significant amount of fly ash have failed.          The aggregate formed by
       sintering briquettes of fly ash containing materials and then crushing the briquettes and
       screening the crushed particles to obtain suitable sized particles is not satisfactory for
       use as a proppant material.      The shapes of the particles formed by crushing are so
       irregular that they are not sufficiently spherical to make a good proppant material and
       the irregular shapes of the particles also reduces their crush resistance.
[0015]        U.S. Patent No. 7,828,998 discloses making proppant from granules made from
       kaolinite, bauxite, fly ash, and combinations thereof.           However, in U.S. Patent
       No. 7,828,998, the granules are heated initially under reducing conditions so that at
       least part of the metal oxide dopant is reduced to form a metastable, transient liquid
       phase among the particles. This liquid phase includes at least part of the reduced metal
       oxide dopant, promotes sintering among the particles, and forms islands of reduced
       metal oxide dopant within and on the surface of the granules. Following the heating
       under reducing conditions, the granules are heated under oxidizing conditions such that
       the islands of reduced metal oxide are oxidized and/or go into solid solution within the
       particles, thereby creating voids within and forming a metal or metal oxide shell on the
       granules. Advantageously, in one or more embodiments of the present invention,
       methods of manufacture do not require heating the granules under reducing conditions
       followed by heating the granules under oxidizing conditions.
[0016]        Other prior art has created relatively low density proppant materials which
       required the use of nano-scale raw materials.         Using feedstocks with a nano-scale
       particle size greatly increases the cost of the feedstocks and the finished product to non
       economic levels.      Advantageously, in one or more embodiments of the present
                                                4

       invention, methods of manufacture do not require the use of raw materials smaller than
       d90<10pI  (90% of the particles are less than 10p in size).
[0017]       Accordingly, in one or more embodiments of the present invention, a spherical or
       round proppant material, which has a low density and is suitably crush resistant to serve
       as a proppant, may be made by sintering spherical or round granules formed from a
       mixture of fly ash and clay or a mixture of fly ash, clay, and bauxite, in which fly ash is
       the primary component by weight. While the descriptive terms "spherical" or "round"
       are used herein, it is understood that the granules formed will not necessarily be perfect
       spheres, but instead will be sphere-like, i.e., well rounded where the major and minor
       axes of the granule are approximately the same, but not necessarily exactly the same.
       In other words, the "spheres" or "round" granules may be slightly elliptical or
       otherwise deviate from being perfect spheres, but will be very well rounded and
       approximately spherical.
[0018]       The clay content acts as a plasticizer to promote formation of the desired granules
       and provide them with a measure of physical stability prior to the sintering of the
       granule. In the embodiments discussed in detail below, kaolin clay is used, however,
       one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that ball clay, illite, or any other clay
       materials with suitable characteristics may be used.
[0019]       In embodiments that include bauxite, the bauxite need not be of such a high
       quality.   In conventional sintered bauxite proppants, very high quality bauxite is
       required because they must be sintered at very high temperatures, such as, for example,
       1400 C to 1600 C. If there are sufficient impurities in the bauxite, when sintering at
       such high temperatures, the impurities melt thereby ruining the proppant. However, in
       one or more embodiments of the present invention, lesser quality, and therefore less
       expensive, bauxite may be used because the present invention only requires that the
       bauxite avoid melting on the outside of the proppant to avoid sticking at the lower
       sintering temperatures used. Advantageously, this allows for the use of less expensive
       bauxite that is readily available from more sources.
[0020]       The granules formed may be calcined by heating the granules to a calcination
       temperature that removes water and other volatile materials otherwise contained in the
       granules.   Then, to obtain the desired degree of crush resistance, the granules are
                                                5

       sintered at a temperature above what will cause granules to become very sticky as a
       result of melting of some of the components of the materials in the mixture, particularly
       one or more of the components of, including impurities in, the fly ash. If the granules
       become too sticky during the sintering step, they will agglomerate, which results in a
       poor yield of uniformly sized particles of a specific size.            Moreover, excessive
       stickiness will cause the granules to adhere to the kiln in which they are being sintered,
       reducing the yield and damaging the kiln.
[0021]        To prevent excessive stickiness on the surface of the granules when heated to
       sintering temperatures, the granules are separated by adding a separating agent, such as,
       for example, a suitable dry powder, prior to, or during, sintering that obviates the
       stickiness problem.     The separating agent may be added either before or after the
       calcining process, but must be added before, or during, the sintering process. In certain
       embodiments, the separating agent may be added just before placing the granules in the
       kiln.   In other embodiments, the separating agent may be added during sintering
       directly in the kiln. In still other embodiments, the separating agent may be added
       directly after granulation.
[0022]       Advantageously, in one or more embodiments of the present invention, a
       spherical or round proppant material provides high crush resistance, is low density, and
       is relatively inexpensive to manufacture.        In addition, when a proppant particle
       associated with this invention fails, it tends to fracture into a relative few, large pieces
       rather than become pulverized.
[0023]        One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the composition of the raw
       materials, including the nature and the amounts of various impurities which naturally
       occur in the raw materials, may affect the relative proportions of the raw materials used
       and may require appropriate adjustments to the times and amounts of water added to
       form satisfactory granules.
[0024]        Similarly, the chemical composition of different fly ashes may be substantially
       different. Fly ash with excessively high iron oxide content can present economically
       insurmountable problems because of the degree of stickiness which results. Best results
       were achieved with fly ash having an iron oxide content of about 4%. Using a fly ash
       containing in excess of 12% iron oxide can caused insurmountable problems of sticking
                                                6

       in the kiln. Accordingly, iron oxide content in the fly ash should be less than 12%,
       preferably about 7% or less, and most preferably about 4% or less.
[0025]       Fly ash from the combustion of various types of coal (e.g., lignite, bituminous,
       and anthracite coals) may be used to make proppant materials. Lignite fly ash typically
       contains a much higher proportion of CaO (and therefore smaller proportions of SiO 2
       and A120 3) than bituminous or anthracite fly ash. In certain embodiments, very strong
       proppant materials may be made from fly ash and clay without any bauxite or coating.
       In other embodiments, very strong proppant materials may be made from fly ash, clay,
       and bauxite with minimal bauxite content and without coating.
[0026]       Prior to mixing, the fly ash and clay of certain embodiments or the fly ash, clay,
       and bauxite of other embodiments are in powdered form, as described below. In one
       embodiment, the specifications for the fly ash, the clay, and the bauxite are as shown in
       Tables 1, 2, and 3, respectively (it is recognized that the total % may be slightly more
       or less than 100% - this is the result of rounding of some of the values in the table):
                                       Table 1 - Fly Ash
                                      Compound           %
                                          SiO 2        66.0
                                         A12 0  3      22.6
                                         Fe203          4.0
                                          TiO 2         0.6
                                          K20           2.5
                                          MgO           0.2
                                         Na20           0.3
                                          CaO           0.3
                                          SO  3         0.2
                                          LOI           5.2
                                                  7

                                  Table 2 - Clay (Kaolin)
                                     Compound           %
                                         SiO2        59.78
                                        A12 0 3      25.84
                                        Fe203          1.86
                                         CaO          0.39
                                        MgO           0.54
                                         K20          2.08
                                        Na20          0.38
                                      LOI~ooo-c       7.28
                                     Table 3 - Bauxite
                                  Compound           Mass %
                                     A12 0 3          86 min
                                      SiO 2           8 max
                                     Fe203            2 max
                                      TiO 2           4 max
                                  K20  + Na20        0.3 max
                                  CaO + MgO          0.6 max
[0027]       One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the above noted specifications
       for the dry ingredients may vary based on their source and quality. The fly ash and the
       bauxite both may be ground to d90<10p. In certain embodiments, the clay may be
                                                8

       ground to d90<20p. In other embodiments, the clay may be ground to d90<12p. One
       of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the grinding of the clay may vary based
       on the type and kind of clay in accordance with one or more embodiments of the
       present invention.
[0028]       The dry ingredients used in certain embodiments described below and their
       respective percentages of the total are set forth in Table 4A and Table 4B below.
       Specifically, Table 4A provides approximate percentages of dry ingredients for certain
       embodiments where the core comprises fly ash and clay (and does not include bauxite).
       One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the approximate values shown in
       Table 4A may vary somewhat based on an application or design and still be within the
       scope of the present invention.
                                 Table 4A - Dry Ingredients
                        Material               Weight (g)     % Core    % Total
                         Fly Ash                  1,522        90%        90%
                           Clay                    326          10%       10%
[0029]       Similarly, Table 4B provides approximate percentages of dry ingredients for other
       embodiments where the core comprises fly ash, clay, and bauxite. One of ordinary skill
       in the art will recognize that the approximate values shown in Table 4B may vary
       somewhat based on an application or design and still be within the scope of the present
       invention.
                                               9

                                Table 4B - Dry Ingredients
                        Material               Weight (g)     % Core    % Total
                         Fly Ash                  1,522        70%        70%
                           Clay                    326          15%       15%
                         Bauxite                   350          15%       15%
[0030]       In certain embodiments discussed herein, granulation is accomplished using an
       Eirich R02 mixer (with the pin tool). However, it is understood that other high shear
       granulating mixers or other granulating/pelletizing mixers or technologies may be used
       to form the granules, with appropriate adjustments to the times and amounts of water
       added to form satisfactory granules. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that
       other mixers or equipment, having other tools and settings, may be used for such
       embodiments and still be within the scope of the present invention.
[00311       The specifications for the tools and settings on the Eirich R02 mixer are shown in
       Table 5 below.     Specifically, Table 5 provides the specification for the tools and
       settings on the Eirich R02 mixer for certain embodiments where the core comprises fly
       ash and clay (and does not include bauxite) and other embodiments where the core
       comprises fly ash, clay, and bauxite. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that
       other mixers or equipment, having other tools and settings, may be used for such
       embodiments and still be within the scope of the present invention.
                                               10

                              Table 5 - Mixer Specifications/Settings
   Granulation tool 1 - diameter                                     0.136 m
   Granulation tool 2 - diameter (Pin Type)                          0.136 m
   Rotor
   V-belt setting                                        A               B             C
       Rotational speed - Level 1 [rpm]                 900            1500          2500
       Rotational speed - Level 2 [rpm]                 1800           3000           5000
   Rim speed [m/s]                                       A               B             C
       Level 1                                          6.41           10.68         17.80
       Level 2                                         12.82          21.36          35.60
[0032]          The protocol for granulation of the raw materials involves granulation of the raw
         ingredients plus water to form the granules. An additional step of finishing granules to
         enhance roundness also may be desirable. In some embodiments, it is suitable to add
         fly ash, clay, or other dry powder during the granulation process.       By adding dry
         powder, the surface of the wet granules become dry and therefore the granules do not
         grow during extended time of rounding.
[0033]          The protocol for granulation of raw materials is shown in Table 6A and Table 6B
         below. Specifically, Table 6A shows the protocol for granulation of raw materials for
         certain embodiments where the core comprises fly ash and clay (and does not include
         bauxite).
                                                 11

                          Table 6A - Protocol for Formation of Granules
          Settings         Rim Speed       Mixing                                Water
Step                          Im/si       Principle        Step Description    Addition     Time Is]
        Rotor     Pan    Rotor      Pan    Icecf/cl                                (g)
  1      C1        2      17.80      2       ccf       Dry mix                      0          60
  2      C1        2      17.80      2       ccf       Water addition for                      15
                                                       reducing dust
  3      C2        2      35.60      2       ccf       Water addition at high     380          90
                                                       speed for forming
                                                       microgranules
  4      C2        2      35.60      2       ccf       Microgranulation             0          60
  5      B2        2     21.36       2       ccf       High speed for forming       0          60
                                                       microgranules
  6      A2        2      12.82      2       ccf       Rounding of the              0          60
                                                       microgranules
 [0034]         The dry, powdered raw materials (fly ash and clay) for the granule cores are
          combined in the mixer (step 1). In this embodiment, the followings amounts of the
          powdered raw materials were added to the mixer in step 1: fly ash - 1.98 kg. and kaolin
          clay - 0.22 kg. This will result in the granule cores being about 90 % fly ash, and about
          10 % clay. Water is added smoothly as a spray to the powdered raw materials as they
          are mixed to form a cohesive material (steps 2-3). The water is preferably added in two
          steps to minimize dust escaping from the mixer - a small amount of water is added at
          first with the mixer at low speed until the raw materials have been wetted, and the
          remainder is added with the mixer at higher speed. After the raw materials and water
          have been mixed, the core granules are formed in the mixer (step 4).                  The
          microgranules are formed from the raw material and water mixture. The microgranules
          are then grown to the desired size (step 5). In some embodiments, it may be desired to
          finish the coated granules in the mixer to further enhance roundness (step 6).
 [0035]         Table 6B shows the protocol for granulation of raw materials for certain
          embodiments where the core comprises fly ash, clay, and bauxite.
                                                    12

                         Table 6B - Protocol for Formation of Granules
          Settings        Rim Speed      Mixing                                Water
Step                         Im/sI      Principle        Step Description     Addition    Time Is]
        Rotor    Pan    Rotor      Pan   Icef/cf]                                 (g)
  1      C1        2     17.80      2      ccf       Dry mix                       0         60
  2      C1        2     17.80      2      ccf       Water addition for                       15
                                                     reducing dust
  3      C2        2     35.60      2      ccf       Water addition at high      380         90
                                                     speed for forming
                                                     microgranules
  4      C2        2     35.60      2      ccf       Microgranulation              0         60
  5      B2        2     21.36      2      ccf       High speed for forming        0         60
                                                     microgranules
  6      A2        2     12.82      2      ccf       Rounding of the               0         60
                                                     microgranules
 [0036]         The dry, powdered raw materials (fly ash, clay, and bauxite) for the granule cores
          are combined in the mixer (step 1). In this embodiment, the followings amounts of the
          powdered raw materials were added to the mixer in step 1: fly ash - 1,522 g.; clay
          326 g.; and bauxite - 350 g. This will result in the granule cores being about 70% fly
          ash, about 15% clay, and about 15% bauxite. Water is added smoothly as a spray to the
          powdered raw materials as they are mixed to form a cohesive material (steps 2-3). The
          water is preferably added in two steps to minimize dust escaping from the mixer - a
          small amount of water is added at first with the mixer at low speed until the raw
          materials have been wetted, and the remainder is added with the mixer at higher speed.
          After the raw materials and water have been mixed, the core granules are formed in the
          mixer (step 4). The microgranules are formed from the raw material and water mixture.
          The microgranules are then grown to the desired size. (step 5). In some embodiments,
          it may be desired to finish the coated granules in the mixer to further enhance
          roundness (step 6).
                                                  13

[0037]        The protocol described in Tables 6A and 6B is suitable for making proppants in
       the range of 20-50 mesh, but with appropriate modifications can be used to make
       proppant materials in the range of 16-30 mesh, 40-70 mesh, or even smaller than 40-70
       mesh; pretty much any commercially desired size range is feasible.             The residual
       moisture content after granulation in this particular embodiment is in the range of 9-12
       Ma.%. It is understood that the targeted residual moisture content may vary depending
       on the composition of feedstocks used, including the relative proportions of the
       feedstocks and their individual specifications (e.g.,         constituent components and
       impurities, particle size, etc.). Generally, the residual moisture content should be in the
       range of 5-20 Ma.%, and preferably in the range of 7-15 Ma.%. By relatively small
       changes in the moisture content, temperature, and the time allotted to growth of the
       microgranules, different particle size distributions can be achieved. One of ordinary
       skill in the art will recognize that the granulation process may be adjusted depending on
       characteristics of the raw materials used in accordance with one or more embodiments
       of the present invention.
[0038]        For up-scaling of the process, it is helpful to properly control the rim speed of the
       granulation tools used. Especially during the first part of the granulation process, it is
       essential to use a higher rim speed to form microgranules with a good particle size
       distribution. These microgranules can then be grown to very round granules later using
       a lower rim speed. Rim speed during the different steps is shown in Tables 6A and 6B.
[0039]        After creating microgranules with a good size distribution, the rim speed of the
       rotor should be decreased to ensure proper growth of the granules. The speed of the
       rotor still needs a relatively high value to ensure good distribution. If the speed is too
       low, large lumps can be formed on the granules which can result in a bad distribution
       and a poor yield. Growth of the granules continues until the granules have reached the
       desired size.    At this point, the granules are the proper size, but are not very well
       rounded.
[0040]        To better round the granules, the rotor speed is reduced and the granules are
       rounded for a relatively brief period of time. The time should be as short as possible,
       but as long as necessary to get reasonably round granules. If the time is too long, the
       granules will start to grow again at the low rotor speed.
                                                 14

[0041]        Once granulation is complete, the granules may be calcinated in suitable kiln,
       such as a rotary kiln, at a temperature of about 900 'C - 1150 'C, preferred 950 'C
       1150 'C, more preferred 1050 'C - 1080 'C for about 2-60 minutes, preferably 10-30
       minutes, or most preferably 15-20 minutes. The temperature of a rotary kiln typically
       is somewhat higher than the actual sintering temperature in the sintering bed inside the
       kiln tube (which may be read by a thermocouple), so the kiln temperature may be on
       the order of about 1050 'C - 1350 'C, depending on the kiln. Calcination of the
       material at too high a temperature (or to the correct temperature too fast) could result in
       the crystalline water and other volatile materials being released too fast, which could
       lead to cracks in the green material which in turn would weaken the structure of the
       proppant material and limit its maximum strength.
[0042]        After calcinating at suitable temperature the granules may be powdered with a
       separating agent such as, for example, a dry powder, and mixed smoothly. In certain
       embodiments, the separating agent may be added after calcinating, but prior to
       sintering. However, in other embodiments, the separating agent may be added before
       calcinating. And in still other embodiments, the separating agent may be added during
       sintering. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the separating agent may
       be added at different stages of the process based on an application or design in
       accordance with one or more embodiments of the present invention.
[0043]        In certain embodiments, the separating agent may comprise bauxite.         In other
       embodiments, the separating agent may comprise mullite. In still other embodiments,
       the separating agent may comprise any other suitable high temperature resistant
       material.   One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that other separating agents
       may be used within the scope of the present invention. It is understood that the targeted
       amount of separating agent may vary depending on the composition of feedstocks used,
       including relative portions of the feedstocks and their individual specifications (e.g.,
       constituent components and impurities, particle size, etc.).     The amount of powder
       necessary to avoid sticking of the granules (to the kiln and each other) is about 1-12
       Ma.%, preferred 1-8 Ma.%, and more preferred 2-4 Ma.%. However, one of ordinary
       skill in the art will recognize that other amounts may be added based on an application
       or design in accordance with one or more embodiments of the present invention.
                                                15

[0044]        The calcined and powdered granules may then be sintered in a suitable kiln, such
       as a rotary kiln, at a temperature of about 1050 C - 1350 C, preferred 1150 C - 1300
        C, and more preferred 1200          C - 1280 C (again, the kiln temperature may be
       somewhat higher than the sintering temperature in the sintering bed). The sintering
       temperature may vary based on the type of fly ash and raw material used. For certain
       lignite fly ash, the sintering temperature may be as low as 1050 C. For other types of
       fly ash, the sintering temperature may be as high as 1350 C. In certain embodiments
       where core granules are formed from a mixture of fly ash and clay, the addition of the
       separating agent prior to sintering allows for a maximum sintering temperature of about
       1240 OC - 1280 0C without significant sticking of the granules to each other during
       sintering (again, the kiln temperature may be somewhat higher that the sintering
       temperature in the sintering bed, which may be on the order of about 1380 0C,
       depending on the kiln).       Similarly, in other embodiments where core granules are
       formed from a mixture of fly ash, clay, and bauxite, the addition of the separating agent
       prior to sintering allows for a sintering temperature of about 1240 0C - 1280 0 C without
       significant sticking of the granules to each other during sintering (again, the kiln
       temperature may be somewhat higher that the sintering temperature in the sintering bed,
       which may be on the order of about 13800 C, depending on the kiln).
[0045]        It is understood that the calcination and the sintering steps described above may
       be performed in separate kilns or in different sections of the same kiln as the material
       passes through the kiln. When calcination and sintering steps are performed in one
       kiln, the sample may be powdered before placement in kiln or in the kiln itself.
[0046]        For proppant made using lignite fly ash, the sintering temperature may be lower.
       For example, if lignite fly ash is used, a combination calcination/sintering step may be
       used at a temperature of about 1080 0C - 1100 0C.
[0047]        If a rotary kiln is used, there may be a small amount of sticking to the kiln tube,
       but it should not be excessive.
[0048]        After the sintering process, the separating powder may be removed from the
       surface by sieving the sintered granules/proppants to the desired particle size. During
       the sieving process about 80% of the separating powder may be recovered and reused
                                                16

       for powdering again. For the sieving process, a state of the art vibrating sieve with a
       suitable mesh size may be used.
[0049]       In certain embodiments where the core comprises fly ash and clay, crush testing
       of the proppant material produced in the manner described above indicated a
       compressive strength in excess of 6,000 pounds per square inch ("psi"), however, lab
       results produced compressive strength in excess of 11,000 psi during some tests.
       Compressive strength of the proppant material is dependent to a large degree on particle
       size. The embodiment described above achieved a compressive strength in excessive of
       11,000 psi for 30/50 mesh proppant material.
[0050]       In certain embodiments where the core comprises fly ash, clay, and bauxite crush
       testing of the proppant material produced in the manner described above indicated a
       compressive strength in excess of 10,000 pounds psi.       Compressive strength of the
       proppant material is dependent to a large degree on particle size.      The embodiment
       described above achieved a compressive strength in excessive of 11,000 psi for a 30/50
       mesh proppant material.
[0051]       Advantages of one or more embodiments of the present invention may include
       one or more of the following:
[0052]       In one or more embodiments of the present invention, a round proppant material
       having a core comprising fly ash and clay, wherein the fly ash is the primary
       component by weight, provides a proppant material that does not require a coating.
       The proppant may be manufactured by granulating the particles, drying the granules,
       sieving the granules and, prior to entering the kiln, adding a separating agent such as,
       for example, a drying powder, to the granules.
[0053]       In one or more embodiments of the present invention, a round proppant material
       having a core comprising fly ash and clay, wherein the fly ash is the primary
       component by weight, provides a strong ceramic proppant that, because of the absence
       of bauxite and/or coatings, is more economical and can compete with frac sand.
[0054]       In one or more embodiments of the present invention, a round proppant material
       having a core comprising fly ash, clay, and bauxite, wherein the fly ash is the primary
       component by weight, provides a proppant material that does not require a coating. The
       proppant may be manufactured by granulating the particles, drying the granules, sieving
                                              17

       the granules and, prior to entering the kiln, adding a separating agent such as, for
       example, a drying powder, to the granules.
[0055]       In one or more embodiments of the present invention, a round proppant material
       having a core comprising fly ash, clay, and bauxite, wherein the fly ash is the primary
       component by weight, provides a strong ceramic proppant that, because of the absence
       of bauxite coating, is more economical and can compete with frac sand.
[0056]       While the present invention has been described with respect to the above-noted
       embodiments, those skilled in the art, having the benefit of this disclosure, will
       recognize that other embodiments may be devised that are within the scope of the
       invention as disclosed herein.   Accordingly, the scope of the invention should be
       limited only by the appended claims.
                                             18

                                             CLAIMS
       What is claimed is:
1. A round proppant material comprising:
       a core comprising fly ash and clay, wherein the fly ash is the primary component
               by weight; and
       a separating agent applied to the core during manufacture.
2. The proppant of claim 1, wherein the core comprises about 90% fly ash and about 10% clay.
3. The proppant of claim 1, wherein an iron oxide content of the fly ash is 12% or less.
4. The proppant of claim 1, wherein an iron oxide content of the fly ash is about 7% or less.
5. The proppant of claim 1, wherein an iron oxide content of the fly ash is about 4% or less.
6. The proppant of claim 1, wherein the separating agent content of the proppant is about 10%
   or less.
7. A method of manufacturing a round proppant material comprising:
       forming round granules comprising fly ash and clay, wherein the fly ash is the
               primary component by weight;
       adding a separating agent to the round granules;
       calcining the round granules at a temperature in a range between 900 'C and 1150 'C;
               and
       sintering the round granules at a temperature in a range between 1050 'C and 1350 C.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the round granules are sintered at a temperature in a range
   between 11500 C and 1300' C.
                                                19

9. The method of claim 7, wherein the round granules are sintered at a temperature in a range
    between 12000 C and 1280 C.
10. The method of claim 7, wherein the adding of the dry powder occurs after calcining the
    round granules and before sintering the round granules.
11. A round proppant material comprising:
        a core comprising fly ash, bauxite, and clay, wherein the fly ash is the primary
                component by weight; and
        a separating agent applied to the core during manufacture.
12. The proppant of claim 11, wherein the core comprises about 70% fly ash, about 15% clay,
    and about 15% bauxite.
13. The proppant of claim 11, wherein an iron oxide content of the fly ash is 12% or less.
14. The proppant of claim 11, wherein an iron oxide content of the fly ash is about 7% or less.
15. The proppant of claim 11, wherein an iron oxide content of the fly ash is about 4% or less.
16. The proppant of claim 11, wherein the separating agent content of the proppant is about 10%
    or less.
17. A method of manufacturing a round proppant material comprising:
        forming round granules comprising fly ash, bauxite, and clay, wherein the fly ash is the
                primary component by weight;
        adding a separating agent to the round granules;
        calcining the round granules at a temperature in a range between 900 'C and 1150 'C;
                and
        sintering the round granules at a temperature in a range between 1050 'C and 1350 C.
                                                 20

18. The method of claim 17, wherein the round granules are sintered at a temperature in a range
    between 11500 C and 1300 C.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein the round granules are sintered at a temperature in a range
    between 1200 C and 1280 C.
20. The method of claim 17, wherein the adding of the dry powder occurs after calcining the
    round granules and before sintering the round granules.
                                                21

