 ABSTRACT
A lighting apparatus comprising a primary source of illumination for a normal mode
of operation and a secondary source of illumination for an auxiliary mode of
operation, the primary source being powered by a first supply of electrical power and
the secondary source being powered by a second supply of electrical power,
wherein the second supply is operable to power the secondary source upon
disruption to the first supply to the primary source.        The lighting apparatus is
particular useful for providing illumination   in   emergency situations in particular
locations such as electrically powered vehicles used in public transportation
systems, including passenger trains, light-rail trail vehicles, and other vehicles used
in rapid transportation systems.    Another example would be worksites, including
mine sites, at which there is a need to have emergency lighting (e.g. for worksite
safety reasons) in the event of a disruption to electric lighting provided via mains
electrical supply.
Fig. 5

VI'A
     5 KRE   )
       -7 I3

Lighting Apparatus
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001]This invention relates to lightning apparatus, and more particularly a lightning
apparatus having primary and secondary sources of illumination.
[0002] The invention has been devised particularly, although not necessarily solely, as a
lightning apparatus having a primary source of illumination for a normal mode of
operation and a secondary source of illumination for an auxiliary mode of operation (for
example, to provide emergency lighting in the event of disruption to the normal mode of
operation).
BACKGROUND ART
[0003] The following discussion of the background art is intended to facilitate an
understanding of the present invention only. The discussion is not an acknowledgement
or admission that any of the material referred to is or was part of the common general
knowledge as at the priority date of the application.
[0004] There are various locations and installations at which there may be a need for
electric lighting which is primarily powered from a mains supply but which has provision
to continue to provide illumination, for at least a limited period of time, in the event of
disruption to the mains supply. By way of example, these locations and installations
may include electrically powered vehicles used in public transportation systems,
including passenger trains, light-rail trail vehicles, and other vehicles used in rapid
transportation systems. Another example would be worksites, including mine sites, at
which there is a need to have emergency lighting (e.g. for worksite safety reasons) in
the event of a disruption to electric lighting provided via mains electrical supply.
[0005] It is against this background that the present invention was developed.
SUMMARY OF INVENTION
[0006] According to a first aspect of the invention there is provided a lighting apparatus
comprising primary source of illumination for a normal mode of operation and a
secondary source of illumination for an auxiliary mode of operation, the primary source
being powered by a first supply of electrical power and the secondary source being

powered by a second supply of electrical power, wherein the second supply is operable
to power the secondary source upon disruption to first supply to the primary source.
[0007] The primary source may comprise one or more light emitting diodes (LEDs).
[0008] The primary source preferably comprises a plurality of the LEDs. The LEDs of
the primary source may comprise at least one first LED strip (also referred to as the first
strip of light emitting diodes). The first LED strip may be configured as a plurality of the
LEDs mounted on an elongate printed circuit board, as would be understood buy a
person skilled in the art.
[0009] The secondary source may comprise one or more light emitting diodes (LEDs).
[0010] The secondary source preferably comprises a plurality of the LEDs. The LEDs of
the secondary source may comprise at least one second LED strip (also referred to as
the second strip of light emitting diodes). The second LED strip may be configured as a
plurality of the LEDs mounted on an elongate printed circuit board, as would be
understood buy a person skilled in the art.
[0011] The primary source may comprise a plurality of the LEDs arranged in two arrays.
For example, the primary source may comprise a plurality of first LED strips, with the
LEDs in each first strip constituting a respective one of the two arrays.
[0012] The secondary source may comprise a plurality of the LEDs arranged in a single
array. For example, the secondary source may comprise at least one second LED strip,
with the LEDs in the at least one second strip constituting the array.
[0013] The first and secondary sources may be so arranged that the plurality first LED
strips of the primary source are disposed one to each side of the at least one second
LED strip of the secondary source.
[0014] With this arrangement, there are at least three LED strips, and the three strips
are preferably generally parallel to each other and in spaced apart relation one with
respect to another.
[0015] Preferably, the intensity of illumination delivered by each first LED strip is about
the same with respect to each other but higher with respect to the at least one second
LED strip. With this alternative arrangement, the intensity of illumination in the normal
mode of operation is greater than that in the auxiliary mode of operation

[0016] In an alternative arrangement, the intensity of illumination delivered by each first
and second LED strip is about the same. With this alternative arrangement, the intensity
of illumination in the normal mode of operation is greater than that in the auxiliary mode
of operation (because of the additional LED strip).
[0017] Preferably, the intensity of illumination delivered by each first strip of LEDs is
substantially the same with respect to each other.
[0018] Preferably, the intensity of illumination delivered by each second strip of LEDS is
substantially the same with respect to each other.
[0019] Preferably, each second strip of light emitting diodes operate at an illuminance of
about 8w.
[0020] The first supply may comprise electricity from a mains electrical supply.
[0021] The second supply may comprise electricity from a storage system, such as one
or more batteries.       The battery may comprise a rechargeable battery. A battery
considered to be suitable is a nickel-metal hydride battery (Ni-MH).
The lighting apparatus may be operable to automatically initiate delivery of electrical
power from the second supply to the secondary source in the event of disruption of
electrical supply to the lighting apparatus from the first supply. More particularly, the
second supply may be operable to automatically power the secondary source upon
disruption of the first supply to the primary source.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0022] Further features of the present invention are more fully described in the following
description of several non-limiting embodiments thereof. This description is included
solely for the purposes of exemplifying the present invention.           It should not be
understood as a restriction on the broad summary, disclosure or description of the
invention as set out above. The description will be made with reference to the
accompanying drawings in which:
        Figure 1 is a: schematic end view of an embodiment of a lighting apparatus
        according to the invention;
        Figure 2 is a side view of the lighting apparatus;

                                               -T
        Figure 3 is a perspective view (by way of a photograph) of the lighting apparatus
        disposed in an inverted condition to reveal what would normally be the underside
        thereof;
        Figure 4 is a view similar to Figure 3, but in fragmentary form and on a larger
        scale;
        Figure 5 is a schematic view showing three LED strips forming part of the lighting
        apparatus for selectively emitting light from the lighting apparatus; and
        Figure 6 is a schematic view showing some electrical componentry within the
        lighting apparatus.
[0023] The drawings shown are not necessarily to scale, with emphasis instead
generally being placed upon illustrating the principles of the present invention.
[0024] The figures depict an embodiment of the invention. The embodiment illustrates a
certain configuration; however, it is to be appreciated that the invention can take the
form of many configurations, as would be obvious to a person skilled in the art, whilst
still embodying the present invention. These configurations are to be considered within
the scope of this invention.
DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENT
[0025] Referring to the drawings, there is shown an embodiment of a lighting apparatus
10 operable to provide illumination to a surrounding environment, with provision to
provide a primary source of illumination in a normal mode of operation, and alternatively
a secondary source of illumination in an auxiliary mode of operation (for example, to
provide emergency lighting in the event of disruption to the normal mode of operation.
[0026] The lighting apparatus 10 is in the form of a lighting fixture 11 adapted to be
mounted in an elevated condition to direct light for illumination purposes downwardly
and outwardly to an area below. The fixture 11 may be mounted in any appropriate
way, as would be understood by a person skilled in the art; for example, the fixture 11
may be mounted on a roof, a ceiling, a wall or a support such as a pole, although other
mounting arrangements are also contemplated.

[0027] The lighting apparatus 10 comprises a housing 13 having a body 15 and a
removable transparent cover 17. The body 15 defines a cavity 19 accommodating
electrical componentry and related parts, as will be explained further later. The cavity
19 has an open end 21 adjacent side 23 of the body 15. The open end 21 of the cavity
19 is closed by the cover 17. In use, the open end 21 would generally face the direction
in which light is to be projected from the lighting apparatus 10.
[0028] A panel 25 is mounted in the cavity 19 adjacent the open end 21. The panel 25
has an outer surface 27 which confronts the cover 17, and an opposed inner surface 29.
[0029] The lighting apparatus 10 has a primary source of illumination 31 for a normal
mode of operation, and a secondary source of illumination 32 for an auxiliary mode of
operation.
[0030] The primary source 31 is powered by a first supply of electrical power 35, and the
secondary source 32 is powered by a second supply of electrical power 37.             The
second supply 37 is operable to automatically power the secondary source 32 upon
disruption to first supply 35 to the primary source 31, as will be explained in more detail
later.
[0031] The primary source 31 comprises a plurality of light emitting diodes (LEDs) 41
arranged in two arrays 43, 45. More particularly, the primary source 31 comprises two
LED strips 47, 49 (the first strip of light emitting diodes), with the LEDs in each strip
constituting a respective one of the two arrays 43, 45. Each strip 47, 49 is configured as
a plurality of the LEDs 41 mounted on an elongate printed circuit board 51, as would be
understood by a person skilled in the art. The two LED strips 47, 49 are electrically
connected in the arrangement shown.
[0032] The secondary source 32 comprises a plurality of light emitting diodes (LEDs) 51
arranged in a single array.     More particularly, the secondary source 32 comprises at
least one LED strip 53 (the second strip of light emitting diodes), configured as a
plurality of the LEDs 51 mounted on an elongate printed circuit board 55, as would be
understood by a person skilled in the art.
[0033] Light emitting diodes (LEDs) 41, 51 are used because of their smaller size, lower
energy consumption, efficiency, and longer service life than other conventional lighting
devices.

[0034] .The primary and secondary sources 31, 32 are so arranged that the two LED
strips 47, 49 of the primary source 31 are disposed one to each side of the LED strip 53
of the secondary source 32. With this arrangement, there are three LED strips 47, 49
and 53, and the three LED strips are generally parallel to each other and in spaced
apart relation one with respect to another, as shown in Figures 3, 4 and 5.
[0035] The three LED strips 47, 49 and 53 are mounted on outer surface 27 of the panel
25 such that light emitting from the LEDs is directed towards, and passes through, the
transparent cover 17.
[0036] In this embodiment, the intensity of illumination delivered by each of the three
LED strips 47, 49 and 53 is about the same. With this arrangement, the intensity of
illumination delivered by the lighting apparatus 10 in the normal mode of operation is
greater than that in the auxiliary mode of operation because of the additional LED strip
in the primary source 31.
[0037] Further, the light emitting diodes of the second source operate at a lower
illuminance when compared to the light emitting diodes of the first source. In a particular
arrangement the second strip of light emitting diodes (of the second source) operate at
an illuminance of about 8 watts.
[0038] In this embodiment, the first supply 35 comprises electricity from a mains
electrical supply available at the site of installation (such as a 100-240V AC electric
supply), and the second supply 37 comprises electricity from a storage system 61
comprising a battery 63.      The battery 63 may comprise a rechargeable battery. A
nickel-metal hydride battery (Ni-MH) is considered to be suitable.
[0039] Various electrical componentry and related parts of the lightning apparatus 10
are accommodated within the cavity 19 on the inner side of the panel 25, as best seen
in Figure 6. This includes the battery 63 and an associated control module 65 for the
LED strip 53 of the secondary source 32, as well as an LED power supply 67 for the two
LED strips 47, 49 of the primary source 31. Additionally, the cavity 19 accommodates a
backboard terminal block 69 facilitating various electrical connections, as would be
understood by a person skilled in the art.
[0040] In this embodiment, the battery 63, control module 65, LED power supply 67, and
terminal block 69 are mounted on the inner surface 29 of the panel 25, as shown in
Figure 6.

[0041] The lighting apparatus 10 further comprises a control system operable to
automatically initiate delivery of electrical power from the second supply 37 to the
secondary source 32 in the event of disruption of electrical supply to the lighting
apparatus from the primary source 31 (the mains electrical supply). The control system
comprises the control module 65 which is responsive to disruption of electrical supply to
the lighting apparatus 10 from the primary source 31 and operable to initiate delivery of
electrical power from the battery 63 to power the LED strip 53 of the secondary source
32.
[0042] The lighting apparatus 10 is connected to a mains supply via the terminal block
69. The LED power supply 67 has an input 67a connected to the terminal block 69 and
an output 67b connected electrically to one of the two LED strips 47, 49 of the primary
source 31; specifically, LED strip 47 in the arrangement shown. The other LED strip 49
is also connected to the LED power supply 67, but via electrical connection with LED
strip 47 (such as by way of a series or parallel connection as shown in Figure 5)
[0043] The battery 63 is connected electrically to the control module 65 which in turn is
connected electrically to the LED strip 53 of the secondary source 32. The electrical
connection between the control module 65 and the LED strip 53 of the secondary
source 32 is via the terminal block 69, as shown in Figure 6.
[0044] With this arrangement, the battery 63 is rechargeable using electrical power from
the main electrical supply.
[0045] The terminal block 68 has provision for connection to a switch by means of which
the lighting apparatus 10 can be selectively turned on and off, as required.
[0046] In operation, the lighting apparatus 10 is operable in a normal mode to supply
illumination via the two LED strips 47, 49 of the primary source 31 powered from the
mains electrical supply.    In the event of disruption to power available via the mains
electrical supply, the lighting apparatus 10 is operable in an auxiliary mode, with
electrical power being provided from the battery 63 to power the LED strip 53 of the
secondary source 32, thereby allowing the lighting apparatus to provide emergency
lighting.
[0047] The foregoing disclosure is intended to explain how to fashion and use the
particular embodiment described, rather than to limit the true, intended, and fair scope

and spirit of the invention.       The foregoing description is neither intended to be
exhaustive, nor to be limited to the precise forms disclosed.
[0048] Further, it should be appreciated that various modifications can be made without
departing from the principles of the invention.         Therefore, the invention should be
understood to include all such modifications within its scope. For example, the particular
embodiment described and shown in the figures comprises a pair of strips of LEDs of
the primary source having between them one strip of LEDs of the secondary source.
[0049] In alternative arrangements, there may be a plurality of strips of LEDs of the
primary source and plurality of strips of LEDs of the secondary source arranged with
respect to each other to define any particular lighting assembly to satisfy any particular
illumination purposes.
[0050] The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing a particular example
embodiment only and is not intended to be limiting.
[0051] As used herein, the singular forms "a", "an" and "the" may be intended to include
the plural forms as well, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
[0052] The method steps, processes, and operations described herein are not to be
construed as necessarily requiring their performance in the particular order discussed or
illustrated, unless specifically identified as an order of performance.       It is also to be
understood that additional or alternative steps may be employed.
[0053] Reference to any positional descriptions, such as "top", "bottom" and "side", are
to be taken in context of the embodiment described and illustrated, and are not to be
taken as limiting the invention to the literal interpretation of the term but rather as would
be understood by the skilled addressee.
[0054] Spatially relative terms, such as "inner," "outer," "beneath", "below", "lower",
"above", "upper" and the like, may be used herein for ease of description to describe
one element or feature's relationship to another element(s) or feature(s) as illustrated in
the figures.     Spatially relative terms may be intended to encompass different
orientations of the apparatus in use or operation in addition to the orientation depicted in
the figures.    For example, if the apparatus in the figures is turned over, elements
described as "below" or "beneath" other elements or features would then be oriented
"above" the other elements or features.             Thus, the example term "below" can

encompass both an orientation of above and below. The apparatus may be otherwise
oriented (rotated 90 degrees or at other orientations) and the spatially relative
descriptors used herein interpreted accordingly.
[0055] Although the terms first, second, third, etc. may be used herein to describe
various elements, components, regions, layers and/or sections, these elements,
components, regions, layers and/or sections should not be limited by these terms.
These terms may be only used to distinguish one element, component, region, layer or
section from another region, layer or section. Terms such as "first," "second," and other
numerical terms when used herein do not imply a sequence or order unless clearly
indicated by the context.    Thus, a first element, component, region, layer or section
discussed below could be termed a second element, component, region, layer or
section without departing from the teachings of the example embodiment
[0056] .When an element or layer is referred to as being "on", "engaged to", "connected
to" or "coupled to" another element or layer, it may be directly on, engaged, connected
or coupled to the other element or layer, or intervening elements or layers may be
present. In contrast, when an element is referred to as being "directly on," "directly
engaged to", "directly connected to" or "directly coupled to" another element or layer,
there may be no intervening elements or layers present. Other words used to describe
the relationship between elements should be interpreted in a like fashion (e.g.,
"between" versus "directly between," "adjacent" versus "directly adjacent," etc.).     As
used herein, the term "and/or" includes any and all combinations of one or more of the
associated listed items.
[0057] Additionally, where the terms "system", "device", and "apparatus" are used in the
context of the invention, they are to be understood as including reference to any group
of functionally related or interacting,     interrelated, interdependent or associated
components or elements that may be located in proximity to, separate from, integrated
with, or discrete from, each other.
[0058] Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word
"comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to
imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers but not the exclusion of any
other integer or group of integers.

 CLAIMS
1. A lighting apparatus comprising a primary source of illumination for a normal
   mode of operation and a secondary source of illumination for an auxiliary mode
   of operation, the primary source being powered by a first supply of electrical
   power and the secondary source being powered by a second supply of electrical
   power, wherein the second supply is operable to power the secondary source
   upon disruption to the first supply to the primary source.
2. A lighting apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the primary source comprise
   one or more light emitting diodes.
3. A lighting apparatus according to claims 1 or 2 wherein the primary source
   comprises at least one first strip of light emitting diodes.
4. A lighting apparatus according to claim 3 wherein first strip of light emitting
   diodes is configured as a plurality of light emitting diodes mounted on an
   elongate printed circuit board.
5. A lighting apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the
   secondary source comprise one or more light emitting diodes.
6. A lighting apparatus according to claim 5 wherein the light emitting diodes of the
   secondary source comprise at least one second strip of light emitting diodes.
7. A lighting apparatus according to claim 6 wherein the second strip of light
   emitting diodes is configured as a plurality of light emitting diodes mounted on an
   elongate printed circuit board.
8. A lighting apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the
   primary source comprises a plurality of light emitting diodes arranged in a
   plurality of arrays.
9. A lighting apparatus according to claim 8 wherein the primary source comprise at
   least two first strips of light emitting diodes, with the light emitting diodes in each
   first strip constituting a respective one of the plurality of arrays.
10.A lighting apparatus according to any one of claims 6 to 9 wherein the secondary
   source comprises a plurality of the light emitting diodes arranged in an array.

                                           I I
11.A lighting apparatus according to claim 10 wherein the secondary source
   comprise the second strip of light emitting diodes, with the light emitting diodes in
   the second strip constituting the array.
12.A lighting apparatus according to any one of claims 6 to 11 wherein the first and
   secondary sources are arranged in such a manner that each strip of light emitting
   diodes of the two first strips of light emitting diodes of the primary source are
   disposed on one side of the second strip of light emitting diodes of the secondary
   source.
13.A lighting apparatus according to claim 12 wherein there are at least three strips
   of light emitting diodes, and the at least three strips of light emitting diodes are
   generally parallel to each other and in spaced apart relation one with respect to
   another.
14.A lighting apparatus according to any one of claims 3 to 13 wherein the intensity
   of illumination delivered by each first strip of light emitting diodes is substantially
   the same with respect to each other.
15.A lighting apparatus according to any one of claims 6 to 14 wherein the intensity
   of illumination delivered by each second strip of light emitting diodes is
   substantially the same with respect to each other.
16.A lighting apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the
   intensity of illumination in the normal mode of operation is greater than that in the
   auxiliary mode of operation.
17.A lighting apparatus according to any one of claims 6 to 16 wherein the intensity
   of illumination delivered by each second strip of light emitting diodes is lower with
   respect to the intensity of illumination delivered by each first strip of light emitting
   diodes
18.A lighting apparatus according to any one of claims 6 to 17 wherein each second
   strip of light emitting diodes operate at an illuminance of about 8 watts.
19.A lighting apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the
   first supply comprises electricity from a mains electrical supply.

                                           I C.
20.A lighting apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the
   second supply comprises electricity from a storage system, such as one or more
   batteries.
21.A lighting apparatus according to claim 20 wherein the battery comprises a
   rechargeable battery.
22.A lighting apparatus according to claim 21 wherein the battery comprises a
   nickel-metal hydride battery (Ni-MH).
23.A lighting apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the
   lighting apparatus further comprises a control system adapted to (1) detect
   disruption of electrical supply to the lighting apparatus from the first supply and
   (2) initiate delivery of electrical power from the second supply to the secondary
   source in the event of disruption of electrical supply to the lighting apparatus from
   the first supply.
24.A lighting apparatus according to claim 23 wherein the control system comprises
   a control module responsive to disruption of the first supply powering the primary
   source and operable to initiate delivery of electrical power from the second
   supply to the secondary source in the event of disruption of electrical supply to
   the lighting apparatus from the first supply.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/4

