                                         ABSTRACT
            Disclosed is a carbon material for a neurostimulation electrode. The carbon
   material is composed of a carbon fiber. The carbon fiber has a thickness of 1 to 1000
 5 [m, a linear density of 0.01 to 5.00 g/cm, and an aspect ratio of 100 to 1,000,000.
   Particularly, the carbon fiber material can be obtained by dry spinning carbon
   nanotubes, followed by liquid-based densification. The carbon material can be used in
   the fields of deep brain stimulation, spinal cord stimulation, etc. Also disclosed are an
   electrode assembly and a neurostimulation device, each including the carbon material.
10
                                               23

                                                                                     P/00/011
                                                                                Regulation 3.2
                                      AUSTRALIA
                                    Patents Act 1990
           COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                         FOR A STANDARD PATENT
                                      ORIGINAL
                       TO BE COMPLETED BY APPLICANT
Name of Applicant:            Innotherapy Inc.
Invention Title:              Bio-Implantable Electrode Assembly
Divisional of:                2014275662 dated 3 June 2014
Address for Service:          A.P.T. Patent and Trade Mark Attorneys
                              PO Box 833, Blackwood, SA 5051
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best method
of performing it known to me/us:
                                              1

                                      SPECIFICATION
           TITLE OF THE INVENTION: BIO-IMPLANTABLE ELECTRODE
                                         ASSEMBLY
 5
   Technical Field
            The present invention relates to a bio-implantable electrode assembly. More
   particularly, the present invention relates to a bio-implantable electrode assembly that
   can be safely operated in a magnetic field and has excellent mechanical properties, and
10 a neurostimulation device including the same.
   Background Art
            Nowadays, bio-implantable medical devices are used to treat various diseases.
   Some of the bio-implantable medical devices are based on neurostimulation as a
15 therapeutic principle and can be used for the treatment and management of diseases,
   such as pain, constipation, sleep disturbances, Parkinson's disease, epilepsy, hand
   tremor, and myodystonia. Representative examples of such neurostimulation devices
   include spinal cord stimulation (SCS) systems and deep brain stimulation (DBS)
   systems.
20          Fig. 1 is a schematic diagram of a deep brain stimulation system and shows a
   state in which a neurostimulation electrode applies a neural stimulus to the thalamus. A
   neurostimulation-based bio-implantable medical device, such as an SCS or DBS device,
   essentially includes a neurostimulator adapted to generate pulse signals for electrical
   neurostimulation and at least one electrode inserted into a nerve site in need of treatment
25 and through which the neurostimulation signals are applied to the nerve site (see Fig. 1).
   The neurostimulation electrode of the DBS device exemplified in Fig. 1 penetrates the
   cranium but it is to be understood that the neurostimulation electrode may also be
   inserted or implanted into any specific nerve site of the spinal cord, the peripheral
   nervous system or the brain. For example, a bio-implantable electrode of an SCS device
30 may be inserted so as to penetrate the greater pectoral muscle, abdomen or buttock of a
                                                2

   patient. In the neurostimulation-based bio-implantable device, the at least one electrode
   is usually connected to a long lead, as shown in Fig. 1. The lead is responsible for the
   electrical connection between the electrode and the neurostimulator. The electrode of
   the device is often inserted into the subcutaneous tissue layer of the patient. In many
 5 practical cases, however, the nerve coming into contact with the electrode is positioned
   deeper in the body. Thus, a connector is provided to connect the neurostimulator to the
   lead. In many cases, the neurostimulator and the connector are positioned outside the
   body.
            Such an implantable or insertable electrode is used for neurostimulation but
10 should not be reduced in size below a predetermined limit in order to effectively
   conduct electricity. Accordingly, the electrode cannot be inserted into the body without
   a relatively extensive surgical incision. For example, DBS treatment requires an
   extensive incision of the scalp and cranium of a patient. This incision should be made
   under general anesthesia and causes great inconvenience for the patient.
15          Highly elastic metals and alloys, such as gold, stainless steel, tungsten, and
   platinum-iridium alloys, are currently used to produce electrodes for neurostimulation
   but they are not satisfactory in bioaffinity. When such a highly elastic metal or alloy is
   used as an electrode material, it tends to react with body fluids. This reaction causes the
   corrosion of the electrode material in the body, which leads to the limited service life of
20 the electrode. Also, the patient may suffer from pain and inflammation due to the
   corroded electrode.
            Due to its relatively large size, the electrode delivers stimuli to a wide range of
   sites as well as a target site in the cerebral cortex and should apply strong stimuli to
   achieve a desired level of stimulation. Further, the production of the electrode requires
25 the construction of a mold and process variations depending on the size and shape of the
   electrode, which are rather troublesome problems.
            Moreover, a combination of neurostimulation therapy and diagnosis by
   magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is being increasingly used to observe the therapeutic
   effect of neurostimulation. MRI is a noninvasive diagnostic tool that provides high
30 resolution 3-dimensional images. However, patients are exposed to a rather strong
                                                  3

   electromagnetic field during MRI. The intensity of the electromagnetic field increases
   with increasing resolution of the MRI system. The MRI system emits a static magnetic
   field, a gradient magnetic field, and a radio-frequency magnetic field, which is
   generated from the transmitter of the scanner. That is, the MRI system emits a total of
 5 three magnetic field components. The static magnetic field has an intensity of about 0.2
   to about 3.0 Tesla (T). 3.0 T corresponds to about 60,000 times greater than the earth's
   magnetic field. The intensity of the gradient magnetic field varies with time. 0 to 5 kHz
   can produce a gradient magnetic field of 40 mT/m. The radio frequency magnetic field
   is large in scale and can output a maximum energy of 20,000 W (corresponding to 20
10 times or more that of a toaster) with 64 MHz at a static magnetic field of 1.5 T. The
   magnetic fields of the MRI system adversely affect a neurostimulation device. For
   example, the static magnetic field applies a force to the neurostimulation device placed
   in the scanner of the MRI system. As a result, the neurostimulation device may be
   stressed.   The    radio-frequency   magnetic    field  heats   the  metal    parts of the
15 neurostimulation device. Further, the time-dependent gradient magnetic field gives rise
   to an induced current, causing damage to the neurostimulation device and imaging
   disturbances. The most serious negative effect of the magnetic fields is that the lead of
   the neurostimulation device may be overheated by the radio-frequency magnetic field.
   Some research results reveal that the temperature of the lead is raised to 25 'C or above.
20 The negative effects of the magnetic field of MRI systems on neurostimulation devices
   can be found, for example, in Rezai et al., Journal of Magnetic Resonance Imaging,
   Vol. 15(2002), pp. 241-250.
             There is a need in the art for electrode materials that can be safely operated in
   the magnetic fields of an MRI system, have excellent mechanical properties, are
25 sufficiently thin, and can replace metal materials, but the need is still not met.
   Detailed Description of the Invention
   Problems to be Solved by the Invention
             One object of the present invention is to provide a bio-implantable electrode
30 material that is thinner than metal electrode materials while possessing excellent
                                                  4

   mechanical properties, thus being suitable for use in a bio-implantable electrode. A
   further object of the present invention is to provide a bio-implantable electrode material
   with high electrical conductivity that releases a reduced amount of heat in a high
   magnetic field environment.
 5
   Means for Solving the Problems
            Aspects of the present invention provide a carbon fiber material for a
   neurostimulation electrode and a bio-implantable electrode including the carbon fiber
   material. The carbon fiber material is composed of a carbon fiber with a thickness of 1
10 to 1000 [tm, a linear density of 0.01 to 5.00 g/cm, and an aspect ratio of 100 to
    1,000,000. In one embodiment of the present invention, the carbon fiber is a carbon
   nanotube spun yam. In one specific embodiment of the present invention, the carbon
   nanotube spun yam is obtained by dry spinning carbon nanotubes as raw materials into
   a low-density nanotube spun yam, followed by liquid-based densification. In one
15 specific embodiment of the present invention, the carbon nanotube spun yam has a
   tensile strength in the range of 10 to 100,000 MPa.
            In a further aspect of the present invention, a bio-implantable electrode
   assembly is provided which includes an electrode inserted into the body to deliver
   electrical signals to a desired nerve site, an insulator coating surrounding on the surface
20 of the electrode which leaves at least some portion of the electrode exposed, and a
   neurostimulation portion defined by the exposed portion of the electrode in which the
   electrical signals are applied to the nerve site upon contact, wherein the electrode is
   composed of a carbon fiber.
            In another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a neurostimulation
25 device    including   the   above-mentioned      bio-implantable   electrode  assembly,   a
   neurostimulator adapted to generate pulse signals, and a connector through which the
   electrode assembly is wired or wirelessly connected to the neurostimulator.
   Effects of the Invention
30          The carbon material of the present invention is thinner than metal electrode
                                                  5

   materials while possessing sufficient mechanical strength, thus being suitable for use in
   a bio-implantable electrode. Due to these advantages, the electrode assembly and the
   bio-implantable neurostimulation device of the present invention can be exactly directed
   to a nerve site to be stimulated. In addition, the carbon material of the present invention
 5 has high electrical conductivity and can minimize the generation of an induced current
   in a high magnetic field environment, such as a magnetic resonance imaging system,
   and the generation of heat by magnetic loss.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
10          Fig. 1 is a schematic diagram showing a state in which a general deep brain
   stimulation system is in use.
            Fig. 2 is a schematic view of an electrode assembly according to one
   embodiment of the present invention.
            Fig. 3 is a schematic view of an electrode assembly according to a further
15 embodiment of the present invention.
            Fig. 4 shows a method for preparing a carbon nanotube spun yarn according to
   one embodiment of the present invention and electron microscopy images revealing the
   experimental results obtained in the individual steps of the process; (a) a schematic
   diagram showing a method for preparing a nanotube spun yarn from a nanoforest of
20 carbon nanotubes; (b) a scanning electron microscopy image showing a direction in
   which carbon nanotubes are spun from the nanoforest; (c) a scanning electron
   microscopy image showing a low-density carbon nanotube spun yarn; (d) an electron
   microscopy image showing a spun yarn prepared by densification of the low-density
   spun yarn.
25          Fig. 5 is a graph showing the electrical conductivity of a carbon fiber composed
   of a carbon nanotube spun yarn according to one embodiment of the present invention.
            Fig. 6 is a graph comparing the heat release profiles of a carbon fiber according
   to one embodiment of the present invention and a commercial electrode for deep brain
   stimulation in a magnetic resonance imaging system.
30          Fig. 7 is a strain-strength curve of a carbon fiber for an electrode according to
                                                 6

   one embodiment of the present invention, which was measured to evaluate the tensile
   strength and modulus of elasticity of the carbon fiber.
   Mode for Carrying out the Invention
 5           The present invention will now be described in detail. Prior to the detailed
   description of the invention, it should be understood that the terms and words used in
   the specification and claims are not to be construed as having common and dictionary
   meanings, but are construed as having meanings and concepts corresponding to the
   spirit of the invention in view of the principle that the inventor can define properly the
10 concept of the terms and words in order to describe his/her invention with the best
   method.
            As used herein, the term "carbon nanotube" refers to a macromolecule in the
   shape of a long thin tube whose diameter is on the order of 1 to 200 nm and whose
   length is on the order of micrometers to millimeters. If necessary, the term "carbon
15 nanotube" is used herein to mean the presence of a small amount of an additive, such as
   a conductivity improver. If necessary, the term "carbon nanotube" as used herein is
   intended to include a carbon nanotube whose surface is modified with a surface
   modifier after synthesis. The term "carbon nanotube" as used herein may refer to a
   single-walled nanotube (SWNT) or a multi-walled nanotube (MWNT) in the context of
20 the present invention. The term "carbon nanotube" may refer to one independent strand
   of carbon nanotubes that extends without being cut or a portion (a filament or strand) of
   a spun yam constructed by interlacing carbon fibers.
             Carbon nanotubes have a very high aspect ratio (length/diameter). For example,
   the aspect ratio may be in the range of 100 to 1,000, typically 80 to 300. Carbon
25 nanotubes are less dense than diamond and graphite but have a mechanical strength tens
   of times that high-strength alloys. The electrical conductivity of carbon nanotubes is
   higher than that of copper. Carbon nanotubes possess a thermal conductivity of about 2
   times higher than that of diamond. Carbon nanotubes are stable at a high temperature
   (about 750 'C). In addition to these ideal characteristics, carbon nanotubes are less
30 heated by an electromagnetic field than metal materials, which is thought to be because
                                                7

   electrons of carbon nanotubes are confined in the sp2 hybrid orbital, unlike free
   electrons of metals.
             When mass-produced carbon nanotubes are simply used as bulk materials,
   superior conductivity of the individual carbon nanotubes at a microscopic level is
 5 difficult to achieve. This is because a contact resistance is created between adjacent
   strands of the nanotubes in the bulk aggregate, leading to a reduction in the electrical
   conductivity of the nanotubes.
             As a result of extensive research to find a technical solution to the problem
   associated with the contact resistance deteriorating the performance of a bulk nanotube
10 aggregate, the inventors have succeeded in developing a carbon fiber-based electrode
   material with excellent characteristics of nanotubes by densification of a nanotube
   aggregate and finally arrived at the present invention.
             One aspect of the present invention provides a carbon fiber as an electrode
   material for a neurostimulation device. The carbon fiber has a thickness of 1 to 1000
15 pmi, a linear density of 0.01 to 5.00 g/cm, and an aspect ratio of 100 to 1,000,000. The
   carbon fiber may be used alone to produce an electrode for a neurostimulation device.
             Since the carbon fiber of the present invention has a small thickness and a linear
   density within the respective ranges defined above, it has superior mechanical strength,
   elasticity, and electrical conductivity. The thickness of platinum-iridium electrodes,
20 which      are recognized    as   the   most   outstanding    commercial     electrodes  for
   neurostimulation, are on the order of 1.27 mm. In contrast, the electrode material of the
   present invention is easily operable even at a thickness of 20 um so that nerve sites can
   be significantly protected from unnecessary stimulation. In one specific embodiment of
   the present invention, the electrode material has a tensile strength of 10 to 100,000 MPa.
25 Accordingly, the electrode material of the present invention can be used to produce an
   electrode that has a much higher tensile strength than platinum-iridium electrodes
   whose tensile strength lies within the range of 1000 to 1200 MPa. In addition, the use of
   the electrode material according to the present invention enables the production of an
   electrode that exhibits a wide range of physical properties, such as strength.
30           In one embodiment of the present invention, the carbon fiber as an electrode
                                                 8

   material for neurostimulation is a carbon nanotube spun yarn. In one embodiment, the
   nanotube spun yarn may be twisted. In a further embodiment, the nanotube spun yam is
   one obtained by spinning without twisting. In a more specific embodiment, the carbon
   nanotube spun yam is one obtained by liquid-based densification.
 5          The nanotube spun yarn having not undergone densification is also referred to
   as a "low-density nanotube spun yam". The term "low-density nanotube spun yam" is
   used to distinguish from the nanotube spun yam having not undergone densification
   from the nanotube spun yam having undergone densification. The low-density nanotube
   spun yarn has a linear density of approximately 0.01 to 5.00 g/cm. As the low-density
10 nanotube spun yarn, there may be exemplified a nanotube spun yarn obtained by
   drawing carbon nanotubes from an aggregate of vertically oriented carbon nanotubes,
   for example, a nanoforest, and spinning the drawn carbon nanotubes. The low-density
   nanotube spun yarn may have high contact resistance, which makes it difficult to
   sufficiently ensure high mechanical strength and electrical conductivity of the
15 individual nanotubes.
            In one specific embodiment of the present invention, the liquid-based
   densification is performed by dipping the low-density spun yam in a volatile solvent
   and vaporizing the solvent. As a result of the liquid-based densification, the texture of
   the spun yarn is densified. When the carbon nanotube fiber impregnated with the
20 volatile solvent is dried, the nanotube strands become dense by surface tension and the
   spaces between the strands are reduced. In the densified nanotube spun yarn, load
   transfer between the constituent carbon nanotube strands is facilitated so that the
   inherent excellent mechanical properties of the carbon nanotubes can be easily
   exhibited. A smaller number of electron hopping paths are present in the densified spun
25 yarn than in the low-density carbon nanotube spun yam, contributing to an
   improvement in the conductivity of the densified spun yarn. To sum up, the carbon
   nanotube spun yam having undergone densification can exhibit excellent electrical,
   mechanical, and thermal properties close to those of micrometer- to nanometer-scale
   individual carbon nanotube filaments.
30          A further aspect of the present invention provides an electrode assembly
                                                9

   including an electrode composed of the carbon fiber and an insulator coating coated on
   the electrode.
            Fig. 2 is a schematic view of an electrode assembly according to one
   embodiment of the present invention. Referring to Fig. 2, the electrode assembly 200
 5 includes an electrode 210 composed of the carbon fiber, preferably a carbon nanotube
   spun yam, and an insulator coating 220 coated to surround the electrode 210. The
   insulator coating 220 surrounds the electrode as a whole such that at least a portion of
   the electrode is exposed to the outside. The insulator coating 220 serves to prevent the
   electrode from coming into electrical contact with the body. A neurostimulation portion
10 215 is defined by the exposed portion of the electrode. Electrical signals generated from
   a neurotransmitter can be delivered to a desired nerve site through the neurostimulation
   portion 215 upon contact with the nerve site. Korean Patent Publication No. 10-2010
   0065678 describes a brain stimulation electrode using an electrode tip that is composed
   of nanostructures, unlike conventional rod-like metal electrodes. Specifically, the brain
15 stimulation electrode includes a supporting part in the form of a metal wire and an
   electrode tip supported on the support. The electrode tip may be made of metallic or
   semimetallic materials, including carbon nanotubes. The electrode assembly 200 of the
   present invention is structurally different from the electrode structure described in the
   Korean patent publication. The electode assembly 200 does not include a support and an
20 electrode tip composed of nanostructures, which are distinctly separated from each
   other, and instead is composed of a carbon fiber as a whole. The brain stimulation
   electrode of the electrode assembly according to the present invention does not use a
   metal wire, whereas the prior art electrode suffers from overheating of the metal wire by
   a magnetic field of an MRI system.
25          The entire length of the electrode assembly 200 may vary according to the
   intended use and may be, for example, from 5 cm to 10000 cm. Preferably, the electrode
   assembly 200 has an entire length in the range of 50 cm to 1000 cm. Within this range,
   the electrode assembly 200 can efficiently minimize the generation of heat, enabling the
   delivery of stimuli from a battery to a target site in the deep brain. On the other hand,
30 the neurostimulation portion 215 of the electrode 210 is from 0.01 cm to 5 cm,
                                               10

   preferably from 0.1 to 1 cm in length. If the neurostimulation portion 215 is shorter than
   the lower limit defined above, it may not come into contact with a target site, resulting
   in weak stimulation of the target site. Meanwhile, if the neurostimulation portion 215 is
   longer than the upper limit defined above, stimuli may not be correctly delivered to a
 5 target site. A large portion of the body of the electrode 210 is covered with the insulator
   coating 220 and one end of the insulator coating 220 may remain uncovered and
   exposed, as illustrated in Fig. 2. In an alternative embodiment, neurostimulation
   portions 215 may be formed at positions other than both ends of the electrode 210. That
   is, a plurality of exposed portions of the electrode 210 may be arranged. For example,
10 the insulator coating 220 may cover the entire surface of the electrode 210, including
   both ends of the electrode 210, and two to four exposed portions 215 of the electrode
   210 may be arranged at uniform intervals. Fig. 3 is a schematic view of an electrode
   assembly according to a further embodiment of the present invention. Referring to Fig.
   3, the electrode assembly 200 may be constructed such that four neurostimulation
15 portions 215 are exposed.
            In the electrode assembly 200 of the present invention, the electrode 210 serves
   to deliver electrical signals for neurostimulation to the neurostimulation portion 215 and
   to transmit and deliver electrical nerve signals detected by the neurostimulation portion
   215 to an analyzer. The electrical signals for neurostimulation are generated from the
20 outside. The electrode assembly 200 of the present invention may include an adaptor
   (not illustrated) through which the electrode 210 can be connected to an external
   neurostimulator or connector.
            In the electrode assembly 200 of the present invention, the insulator coating 220
   surrounds the entire surface of the electrode 210 and electrically insulates the electrode
25 210 from the body. The insulator coating 220 may be composed of an organic or
   inorganic material, typically a polymer resin. In one embodiment, the insulator coating
   220 may be composed of a biocompatible polymer resin. Specific examples of suitable
   materials for the insulator coating 220 include phenolic resins, urea resins, melamine
   resins, unsaturated polyester resins, diaryl phthalates, epoxy resins, alkyd resins,
30 polyimide,      polyurethane,    polyethylene,    polypropylene,    poly-4-methylpentene,
                                                11

   polymethyl methacrylate, acrylonitrile resins, polyvinyl chloride, polyvinyl acetate,
   polyvinyl alcohol, polyvinyl butyral, polyvinylidene chloride, polystyrene, ABS resins,
   polyamide,     polyacetal,   polycarbonate,   polyethylene   terephthalate,    polybutylene
   terephthalate,   ionomer resins, polysulfone, polyethersulfone, polyphenylene ether,
 5 polyphenylene      sulfide, polyetherimide,   polyetheretherketone,   aromatic polyester,
   thermoplastic urethane elastomers, fluorinated rubbers, ethylene tetrafluoride resins,
   ethylene trifluoride resins, polyvinylidene fluoride, polyvinyl fluoride, nitrocellulose,
   cellulose acetate, ethyl cellulose, propylene cellulose, and glass-reinforced fibers. The
   thickness of the insulator coating 220 may be in the range of 0.1 mm to 30 mm. If the
10 insulator coating 220 is thinner than the lower limit defined above, the insulation effect
   of the insulator coating 220 is negligible. Meanwhile, if the insulator coating 220 is
   thicker than the upper limit defined above, the large volume of the insulator coating 220
   may cause brain damage.
            In one specific embodiment, the electrode of the electrode assembly is used for
15 deep brain stimulation. In a more specific embodiment, the whole body of the electrode
   including the neurostimulation portion may be realized using a carbon nanotube spun
   yarn. For example, the carbon nanotube spun yarn may be prepared by spinning carbon
   nanotubes, as described in Example 1 that follows. The carbon nanotube spun yarn may
   be used without further processing as a material for the electrode. The electrode may be
20 produced using carbon nanotubes or a graphene material having sp2 bonds. In this case,
   the electrode may be produced in a bulk form by various processes, including solution
   based processes (e.g., vacuum filtration and spray coating) and pressing, based on high
   intermolecular n-n bonding strength of the electrode material. The same method for the
   production of the electrode may be applied to the production of a lead. The lead can be
25 strongly connected to the carbon nanotubes through a polymer resin and a surface
   tension-based spinning process. The carbon nanotubes can be complexed with the
   polymer resin and per se can be used as materials for deep brain stimulation.
            Another     aspect  of the    present  invention   provides   a    bio-implantable
   neurostimulation device including the electrode assembly, a neurostimulator adapted to
30 generate pulse signals, and a connector through which the electrode assembly is wired
                                                12

   or wirelessly connected to the neurostimulator.
             The neurostimulator is a device that generates electrical pulse signals for
   neurostimulation. The neurostimulator delivers pulse signals to the electrode through
   the connector. The neurostimulator of the neurostimulation device is not particularly
 5 limited and may be any of those commonly used in the art. In one embodiment, the
   neurostimulator includes a signal analyzer that analyzes nerve signals detected by the
   electrode. In one specific embodiment of the present invention, the neurostimulator of
   the neurostimulation device is based on a feedback control mechanism with the signal
   analyzer to appropriately feedback control neurostimulation pulse signals depending on
10 the results of analysis of the detected nerve signals.
             The connector is not limited to any specific construction and may be any of
   those commonly adopted in the art. In one embodiment of the present invention, the
   connector of the neurostimulation device may take the form of a wired lead, as shown in
   Fig. 1. Alternatively, the connector may wirelessly connect the electrode assembly to
15 the neurostimulator. In this case, the connector may include a power supply unit that
   wirelessly transmits pulse signals from the neurostimulator. For example, the pulse
   signals may have frequencies of 1 kHz to 9999 GHz.
             A further aspect of the present invention discloses a method for preparing the
   carbon fiber as an electrode material.
20           In one embodiment of the present invention, the carbon fiber is composed of a
   spun yam obtained by dry spinning carbon nanotubes. In one specific embodiment, the
   carbon nanotube spun yam may be obtained by dry spinning in which carbon nanotube
   strands are drawn from an aggregate of the carbon nanotube strands vertically aligned
   on a substrate. An aggregate of nanotubes vertically aligned on a substrate is commonly
25 called a "nanotube forest" or "nanoforest". The vertically aligned nanotubes are merely
   illustrative and an aggregate of nanotubes aligned in a direction non-perpendicular to a
   substrate may also be used in the dry spinning based on the same principle. An
   aggregate of randomly oriented nanotubes can also be considered for the dry spinning.
             According to the dry spinning, the nanotube strands are drawn from the
30 nanoforest in a direction parallel to the plane of the substrate (in a direction orthogonal
                                                13

   to the vertical alignment direction). At this time, the adjacent carbon nanotube filaments
   are also continuously extracted by the van der Waals attractive force between the carbon
   nanotubes to obtain a spun yarn. It is convenient to draw the carbon nanotubes in the
   direction orthogonal to the alignment direction of the nanotubes on the substrate.
 5 Alternatively, the carbon nanotubes may be drawn from the substrate along a direction
   inclined at an angle with respect to the plane of the substrate. The carbon nanotubes
   may be twisted upon drawing by one skilled in the art taking into consideration the
   desired mechanical strength and electrical conductivity. That is, the nanotube bundles
   may be drawn at a predetermined angle with respect to the drawing axis. This twisting
10 increases the interaction between the carbon nanotube strands, and as a result, load
   transfer between the carbon nanotube strands is facilitated, leading to improved physical
   properties. The twisting angle can be easily determined through repeated experiments
   by one skilled in the art. In a further specific embodiment, the nanotube spun yarn is
   one obtained by spinning without twisting.
15          The nanoforest used for the preparation of the nanotube spun yarn is obtained
   by a suitable method well known in the art, and thus a brief explanation will be given of
   the method. A method for preparing a uniform aggregate of dense nanotubes vertically
   arranged on a substrate can be found, for example, in U.S. Patent No. 6361861.
   Representative techniques for forming carbon nanotubes on a substrate are (1) chemical
20 vapor deposition, (2) carbon arc discharge, and (3) laser ablation. Chemical vapor
   deposition, particularly plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition (PECVD), is
   widely used due to its convenience of use. Chemical vapor deposition, for example,
   PECVD, is convenient to use for preparing carbon nanotubes as electrode materials
   because the type, length, diameter, and linearity of carbon nanotubes can be controlled
25 independently. In one specific embodiment of the present invention, the characteristics
   of the electrode materials can be controlled in a relatively simple manner by controlling
   the reaction conditions for chemical deposition when compared to those of metal
   electrode materials.
            The substrate underlying the nanoforest may be made of a material selected
30 from aluminum, silicon, silicon oxide, and aluminum oxide. The thickness of the
                                                14

   substrate is not particularly limited but is typically from 10 nm to 100 nm.
            A reinforcing layer may be formed on the substrate. The reinforcing layer may
   be formed using a metal oxide or a metal other than the substrate material. Examples of
   suitable materials for the reinforcing layer include alumina, aluminum, and titanium
 5 oxide. The reinforcing layer may be formed by a sol-gel process or a general deposition
   process. Specific examples of deposition processes for the formation of the reinforcing
   layer include     chemical vapor deposition, sputtering,        evaporation,  atomic layer
   deposition (ALD), and molecular-beam epitaxy (MBE). The thickness of the reinforcing
   layer is not particularly limited but is preferably from 10 nm to 100 nm.
10          A catalyst may be used for the formation of carbon nanotubes. The catalyst is
   provided on the substrate or the overlying reinforcing layer. The catalyst is not
   particularly limited and may be any of those commonly used in the art. Examples of
   such catalysts include iron, cobalt, nickel, iron-cobalt, iron-nickel, cobalt-nickel, iron
   molybdenum, cobalt-molybdenum, and nickel-molybdenum. Oxides of these metals
15 may also be used but reduction products thereof are preferably used due to their higher
   catalytic activity. The catalyst may be formed into a thin film. In this case, the thickness
   of the catalyst thin film may be, for example, from 0.5 to 2.0 nm. More preferably, the
   catalyst molecules are allowed to aggregate on portions of the surface of the catalyst
   layer to form points for the growth of carbon nanotubes. For example, portions of the
20 surface of the catalyst layer are reduced to form aggregates of the catalyst molecules
   thereon.
            In the present invention, all types of carbon nanotubes, including single-walled
   and multi-walled nanotubes, may be used. The height of the carbon nanotubes in the
   nanoforest is not particularly limited but is preferably from 10 to 500 [tm. The linear
25 density of the carbon nanotubes in the nanoforest is preferably from 0.5 g/cm to 2.0
   g/cm.
             The carbon nanotube spun yam obtained from the nanoforest by dry spinning
   has a low density and thus needs to be densified. In one specific embodiment of the
   present invention, the low-density carbon nanotube spun yarn is densified using liquid
30 based densification. The liquid-based densification is performed by dipping the low
                                                  15

   density spun yam in a volatile solvent and vaporizing the solvent. For example, the
   volatile solvent may be selected from acetone, ethanol, methanol, isopropanol, toluene,
   chloroform, and chlorobenzene. As a result of the liquid-based densification, the low
   density spun yarn can be converted to the carbon fiber of the present invention that is
 5 suitable as an electrode material. The carbon fiber has a thickness of 1 to 1000 [Lm, a
   linear density of 0.01 to 5.00 g/cm, and an aspect ratio of 100 to 1,000,000.
             (a) of Fig. 4 is a schematic diagram showing the method for preparing a
   nanotube spun yam, including: nanoforest formation -        dry spinning -    liquid-based
   densification. As shown in Fig. 4, an iron catalyst having a size of several nm is placed
10 on a silicon/aluminum substrate, a nanoforest is formed on the substrate by PECVD, the
   nanoforest is dry spun (b) into obtain a low-density carbon nanotube fiber (spun yarn,
   (c)), followed by densification to obtain a desired carbon fiber (d). The bio-implantable
   electrode of the present invention, which is composed of the densified carbon nanotube
   spun yarn only, has a much higher electrical conductivity than general electrode metal
15 materials. In one specific embodiment, the carbon fiber of the present invention has an
   electrical conductivity 1000 times higher than that of a metal electrode material.
             The carbon fiber-based electrode material of the present invention can minimize
   the generation of an induced current in a high magnetic field environment, such as a
   magnetic resonance imaging system, and the generation of heat by magnetic loss, thus
20 being suitable as a potential material for neurostimulation devices as well as deep brain
   stimulation devices.
             [EXAMPLES]
             The present invention will be explained in more detail with reference the
25 following examples. However, these examples are provided for illustrative purposes
   only and the scope of the invention is not limited thereto.
             A neurostimulation electrode according to one specific embodiment of the
   present invention was produced from nanotubes and its performance characteristics
   were evaluated.
30
                                                16

            <Preparative Example 1>
            Preparation of substrate for nanoforest formation
            In this preparative example, a nanoforest as an arrangement of vertically
   aligned carbon nanotubes was formed. First, aluminum and iron were sequentially
 5 deposited to uniform thicknesses on a silicon substrate using a sputter under controlled
   voltage and current conditions. Specifically, aluminum was first deposited at a rate of
   6.2 nm/min at 625 V and 0.05 A, and iron was subsequently deposited at a rate of 3.4
   nm/min under the same voltage and current conditions until their final thicknesses
   reached 10 nm and 5 nm, respectively. The surface of the deposited iron catalyst was
10 coarsened by heat treatment. Subsequently, plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition
   (PECVD) using inductively coupled plasma (ICP) was performed and the surface of the
   iron catalyst particles was reduced by hydrogen.
            <Preparative Example 2>
15          Synthesis of vertically aligned carbon nanotubes
            In this preparative example, a nanoforest was formed on the substrate obtained
   by PECVD using ICP in Preparative Example 1. For the chemical vapor deposition
   process, ethylene was used as a carbon source, argon and hydrogen were used as
   auxiliary gases, and oxygen gas was used to stabilize the catalyst. Carbon nanotubes
20 were synthesized at 730 'C for 7 min. At this time, the temperature was raised at a rate
   of 100 'C/min. Fig. 4 shows a scanning electron microscopy (SEM) image of the
   nanoforest. The length of the nanotubes in the nanoforest was approximately 200 [m.
            [Example 1]
25          Spinning of the carbon nanotubes
            In this example, the vertically aligned carbon nanotubes obtained in Preparative
   Example 2 were dry spun to prepare a carbon fiber. First, the nanoforest obtained in
   Preparative Example 1 was connected to a spinner (custom-made, requested to ATEC
   System) using electron tweezers, and then the nanotubes on the substrate were drawn
30 without twisting at a rate of 1 cm/min in a direction perpendicular to the lengthwise
                                                17

   direction of the nanotubes ("dry spinning"). (b) of Fig. 4 is an image showing the
   direction of the dry spinning. The arrow ("spinning") in the image indicates the
   direction perpendicular to the lengthwise direction of the nanotubes. As a result of the
   dry spinning, a "low-density" carbon nanotube spun yarn was obtained. The sparsely
 5 stacked fiber had a thickness of about 95 [m ((c) of Fig. 4) and a linear density on the
   order of 0.2 g/cm. The aspect ratio of the low-density carbon nanotube spun yarn was
   about 2,000. Subsequently, the low-density carbon nanotube spun yarn was densified.
   The densification was performed using ethanol based on the inherent surface tension of
   carbon nanotubes. (d) of Fig. 4 is a scanning electron microscopy image of the densified
10 carbon fiber. The densified carbon fiber had a thickness of about 18 [m, a linear density
   on the order of 0.5 g/m, and an aspect ratio of about 10,000.
            <Test Example 1>
            Measurement of conductivity of the carbon fiber
15          In this test example, the electrical conductivity of the carbon fiber prepared in
   Example 1 was evaluated. First, the carbon fiber was cut into a specimen having a size
   of 3 cm (length) x 18 [tm (thickness). Both ends of the specimen were fixed to
   electrodes of a system for electrical conductivity measurement (CMT-SR2000,
   Changmin Tech Co., Ltd.) with a silver paste.
20          Fig. 5 is a graph showing the current-voltage characteristics of the carbon fiber.
   Referring to Fig. 5, the voltage of the carbon fiber increased steadily with increasing
   current, corresponding to the conductivity profile of a typical conductive fiber. Based
   on the conductivity profile, the carbon fiber was calculated to have an electrical
   conductivity of 515 S/cm, which corresponds to a maximum of at least 1000 times that
25 of a commercial electrode for deep brain stimulation.
            <Test Example 2>
            Heat release of the carbon fiber in magnetic resonance imaging system
            First, the carbon fiber prepared in Example 1 was processed in the same manner
30 as in Test Example 1. The temperature rise of the carbon fiber in a magnetic resonance
                                                18

   imaging (MRI) system was evaluated. To simulate an actual situation in which an
   electrode is inserted into the body, the carbon nanotube (CNT) fiber of Test Example 1,
   a carbon nanotube sheet (CNT conductive film, Toray advanced film Co.), and a DBS
   wire (DBSIm 3389, Medtronic Inc.) each was inserted into an agarose gel, which was
 5 then fixed onto an acrylic substrate. The specimen thus prepared was transferred to a 4.7
   T MRI system for animal experiments. T1 spin-echo scans were performed in the MRI
   system for about 20 min. At this time, the internal temperature of the agarose gel in the
   specimen was measured using a thermo-optic analyzer (4.7 T MRI for animals, Varian).
   The results are graphically presented in Fig. 6.
10           Fig. 6 shows the temperature profiles of the carbon nanotube fiber, the carbon
   nanotube sheet, and the commercial DBS metal wire. Referring to Fig. 6, the
   temperatures of the carbon nanotube fiber and the carbon nanotube sheet were increased
   by 0.7 'C and 1.1 'C, respectively. The commercial DBS metal wire showed a
   temperature rise of 6 'C. The carbon nanotube materials released small amounts of heat
15 compared to the metal material. The carbon nanotube fiber released a smaller amount of
   heat than the carbon nanotube sheet. These results are thought to be due to the
   difference in the shape of the carbon nanotube structures.
             <Test Example 3>
20           Measurement of tensile strength
             The tensile strength of the carbon nanotube spun yarn prepared in Example 1
   was evaluated at a rate of 0.1 mm/min using a 1 cm strain gauge (INSTRON 8032,
   Instron Corporation). Fig. 7 reveals that the carbon nanotube fiber had a high tensile
   strength of 620 MPa and a modulus of elasticity of 1.8 GPa.
25           Although the present invention has been described herein with reference to the
   foregoing specific description and some embodiments, it should be noted that the
   description and embodiments are merely illustrative and are provided to assist in a
   better understanding of the invention. The present invention is not limited to the
   illustrated embodiments. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that various changes
30 and modifications     can be made to these embodiments and such changes and
                                                19

modifications are encompassed within the scope and spirit of the present invention.
        Therefore, the embodiments described above, the appended claims, and their
equivalents or any equivalent changes fall within the scope and spirit of the invention.
                                           20

                                                 CLAIMS
   [Claim 1]           A bio-implantable electrode assembly comprising:
   an electrode inserted into the body to deliver electrical signals to a desired nerve site;
 5 an insulator coating on the surface of the electrode which leaves at least some portion of the
   electrode exposed; and
   a neurostimulation portion defined by the exposed portion of the electrode in which the
   electrical signals are applied to the nerve site upon contact,
             wherein the electrode is composed of a carbon fiber being a carbon nanotube spun yarn
10 obtained by liquid-based densification, and consisted of a circumferential surface and two end
   surfaces and the insulator coating encloses the entire circumferential surface of the carbon fiber
   except for the neurostimulation portion.
15 [Claim 2]           The bio-implantable electrode assembly according to claim 1, wherein the
   carbon fiber has a thickness of I to 1000 pm, a linear density of 0.01 to 5.00 g/cm, and an aspect
   ratio of 100 to 1,000,000.
   [Claim 3]           The bio-implantable electrode assembly according to claim 1, wherein the
20 insulator coating is composed of a biocompatible polymer resin, and the thickness of the
   insulator coating is in a range of 0.1 mm - 20mm.
   [Claim 4]           The bio-implantable electrode assembly according to claim 1, wherein the
   carbon nanotubes are single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWNTs), multi-walled carbon nanotubes
25 (MWNTs) or a mixture thereof.
   [Claim 5]           The bio-implantable electrode assembly according to claim 3, wherein the
   carbon nanotube spun yarn has a tensile strength of 10 to 100,000 MPa.
                                                     21

   [Claim 6]         A neurostimulation device comprising the bio-implantable electrode assembly
   according to claim 1 , a neurostimulator adapted to generate pulse signals, and a connector
   through which the electrode assembly is wired or wirelessly connected to the neurostimulator,
   and wherein the neurostimulator is located at an end of the electrode.
 5 [Claim 7]         The neurostimulation device according to claim 7, wherein the pulse signals
   have frequencies of 1 kHz to 9999 GHz.
10
                                                  22

                              <U+2701><U+2702>
<removed-date>
                   [Fig. 1]
<removed-apn>
                   [Fig. 2]
              !"
                   [Fig. 3]
                               24

                              <U+2701><U+2702>
<removed-date>
                   [Fig. 4]
<removed-apn>
                   [Fig. 5]
              !"
                               25

                              <U+2702><U+2701><U+2702>
<removed-date>
                   [Fig. 6]
<removed-apn>
                   [Fig. 7]
              !"
                                26

