                                               Abstract
  A sliding panel suspension assembly is provided for suspending a sliding panel from a
  supporting member. The assembly comprises first and second magnetic members mounted on
5 mounting means such that a lower surface of each lies on a substantially horizontal plane, and
  suspension means configured to slide along the supporting member for suspending the
  mounting means from the supporting member. The mounting means is rotationally attached to
  the suspension means. The first and second magnetic members are capable of magnetic
  attachment to the first and second sliding panel magnetic members to suspend the sliding panel
0 from the supporting member. The first magnetic member is attracted to the first sliding panel
  magnetic member and repelled from the second sliding panel magnetic member, and the
  second magnetic member is attracted to the second sliding panel magnetic member and
  repelled from the first sliding panel magnetic member.
                                                  17

                 Figure 1
    10
                              12
              17                13
              26
                               90
101
                                  14
                                   15
         16Zt
           24                       18
                                     21
102
                                     23  19
                                      22
                                      2
      23                  ---

                                 SLIDING PANEL SUSPENSION SYSTEM
   Field of Invention
 5 The invention relates to the field of assemblies or systems for suspending sliding panels such
   as doors, screens and windows. More particularly, the invention relates to suspension
   assemblies for cavity door sliders.
   Background to the Invention
 0
   Sliding panels are a common feature of modern homes and commercial buildings. They offer
   numerous advantages, particularly space saving by not encroaching on the available space in
   adjoining rooms. Sliding doors allow access through a doorway and may commonly be cavity
   doors that slide in and out of a recess in a wall. Sliding screens can be used to quickly and
 5 efficiently separate spaces and are used in commercial or office spaces for example.
   Sliding panels are usually mounted to a building framework via a suspension device along their
   upper edge. The suspension device may comprise rollers that are fixed to the panel and move
   along a runner or rail mounted on the building frame to allow the panel to slide backwards and
 0 forwards. In some cases the panel may also be attached along the bottom by similar sliding
   means. The panel mountings need to be sufficiently robust to support the weight of the panel
   over extended periods of time.
   Sliding panels are usually mounted inside a frame or other fixture to conceal the mountings,
25 which may be unsightly. In the case of a cavity door slider, the top of the door panel is
   concealed behind a head jamb. This makes it difficult to access the device suspending the door
   from the frame.
   From time to time the door may need to be adjusted or removed from its mounting, for example
30 to be painted. To remove the door may first require the head jamb to be removed in order to
   gain access to the device on which the door is suspended. Once the adjustment or maintenance
   activity has been carried out the head jamb then needs to be replaced and the finish may need
   to be re-applied, for example using filler and paint. This makes the adjustment of a cavity door
   slider a difficult and time consuming job.
35

   European patent publication no. EP 1691014 discloses a sliding panel support device which
   attempts to address this problem. The support device comprises a magnet that is attached to
   the top of a sliding panel and can magnetically engage with a ferrous member able to slide
   along a rail or the like that is mounted on a frame. The magnetic attraction between the magnet
 5 and the ferrous member suspends the panel from the frame and the panel can be simply
   detached by pulling downwards on the panel against the magnetic attraction force.
   The support device in EP 1691014 is particularly tailored to light weight fittings such as windows
   and small doors. The device may not be suitable for suspending heavier panels such as large
 0 doors and screens. The flange on which the wheel that runs along the rail is mounted may be
   vulnerable to warping under heavy loads. Also, depending on the embodiment, either the
   magnet or ferrous member is mounted along the top surface of the door. As such, this
   component is slim and may therefore not provide a sufficiently strong magnetic attraction with
   the suspension device to support the weight of a heavy panel. However a larger and stronger
 5 magnet mounted on top of the door would increase the distance between the door and the rail,
   which may be undesirable if the distance is sufficiently large that the top of the door is visible. It
   may be desirable to minimise the gap between the rail and the door.
   In addition, the panel in EP 1691014 may be difficult to align with the support device, particularly
 0 in the longitudinal direction. If the magnet and ferrous member are not well aligned, the strength
   of the attraction between them is weakened and this threatens the ability of the device to
   support the panel, particularly heavy panels.
   Object of the Invention
25
   It is an object of the invention to provide an improved sliding panel suspension system and/or
   assembly which addresses at least one of the aforementioned problems associated with the
   prior art, for example to provide a sliding panel suspension system or assembly that can support
   heavy weight panels and/or that can be easily aligned with the panel it supports.
30
   Alternatively, it is an object of the invention to at least provide the public with a useful choice.
   Summary of the Invention
35 According to a first aspect of the invention, there is provided a sliding panel suspension
   assembly comprising:

             first and second magnetic members;
             mounting means on which are mounted the first and second magnetic members such
   that a lower surface of each of the first and second magnetic members lies on a substantially
   horizontal plane; and
 5           suspension means for suspending the mounting means from a supporting member, the
   suspension means being configured to slide along the supporting member,
             wherein the first and second magnetic members are each capable of magnetic
   attachment to one or more magnetic members mounted to a sliding panel to suspend the sliding
   panel from the supporting member.
 0
   It will be understood that the term "magnetic" where used in this specification refers to either
   exhibiting the properties of a magnet or being capable of being attracted to a magnet. That is,
   the term encompasses both magnetised materials (including permanent and temporary
   magnets) that produce a magnetic field and materials that are attracted to such magnetised
 5 materials, typically ferromagnetic or ferrimagnetic materials such as iron and steel.
   It will further be understood that for two magnetic members to be capable of magnetic
   attachment, one or both of the magnetic members needs to be magnetised. In the case of the
   invention, either the magnetic members of the sliding panel suspension assembly may be
 0 magnetised, or the magnetic members of the sliding panel may be magnetised, or the magnetic
   members of both the sliding panel suspension assembly and the sliding panel may be
   magnetised.
   Preferably, the mounting means is rotationally attached to the suspension means such that the
25 mounting means is able to rotate in a substantially horizontally plane.
   Preferably, the sliding panel comprises third and fourth magnetic members adapted to
   magnetically attach to the first and second magnetic members respectively.
30 More preferably, the first, second, third and fourth magnetic members are each magnetised with
   polarities arranged such that the first magnetic member is attracted to the third magnetic
   member and repelled from the fourth magnetic member, and the second magnetic member is
   attracted to the fourth magnetic member and repelled from the third magnetic member.

   The magnetised magnetic members may be formed from any appropriate magnetised material.
   In some embodiments the magnetised magnetic members are formed from rare earth magnets
   such as neodymium magnets.
 5 Preferably, the sliding panel suspension assembly comprises releasable means for connecting
   the mounting means to the suspension means.
   Preferably, the suspension assembly comprises guide means directly or indirectly connected to
   the first and/or second magnetic member, the guide means comprising one or more co
 0 operating surfaces operable to align the first and/or second magnetic members with the
   respective magnetic members of the sliding panel when the first and second magnetic members
   are brought into magnetic attachment with the magnetic members of the sliding panel.
   More preferably, the guide means comprises at least one male guide means portion and at least
 5 one female guide means portion, the male and female guide means portions being configured
   to co-operate when the first and/or second magnetic members are magnetically attached to the
   respective magnetic members of the sliding panel, wherein the suspension assembly comprises
   the male guide means portion and the sliding panel comprises the female guide means portion.
 o Preferably, the magnetic members of the sliding panel are embedded in an opening on an
   upper surface of the sliding panel, the edges of the opening forming the female guide means
   portion.
   Preferably, the first and/or second magnetic member comprises the male guide means portion.
25
   Preferably, the sliding panel suspension assembly comprises means for adjusting the height
   that the sliding panel is suspended below the supporting member.
   More preferably, the means for adjusting the height that the sliding panel is suspended below
30 the supporting member is configured to allow the height to be adjusted without disengaging the
   sliding panel from the supporting member and/or without disengaging the suspension means
   from the supporting member.
   More preferably, the suspension means comprises a bolt connecting the suspension means and
35 the mounting plate, wherein rotation of the bolt adjusts the height that the sliding panel is
   suspended below the supporting member.

   In preferred embodiments, the mounting plate is connected to the suspension means via a
   quick-release mechanism. More preferably, the suspension assembly comprises a lever arm
   rotatably connected to the mounting plate and moveable between an open position, in which the
 5 a part of the suspension means can be moved into an opening in the mounting plate, and a
   closed position, in which the part of the suspension means is prevented from leaving the
   opening in the mounting plate.
   According to a second aspect of the invention, there is provided a sliding panel suspension
 0 system comprising:
            first and second magnetic members;
            mounting means on which are mounted the first and second magnetic members such
   that a lower surface of each of the first and second magnetic members lies on a substantially
   horizontal plane;
 5          suspension means for suspending the mounting means from a supporting member, the
   suspension means being configured to slide along the supporting member; and
            one or more further magnetic members configured to be mounted to a sliding panel, the
   further magnetic members being capable of magnetic attachment to the first and second
   magnetic members to suspend the sliding panel from the supporting member.
 0
   According to a third aspect of the invention, there is provided a sliding panel suspension system
   comprising:
            a first magnetic member suspended from and able to slide relative to a supporting
   member;
25          a second magnetic member attached to a sliding panel and capable of magnetic
   attachment to the first magnetic member to suspend the sliding panel from the supporting
   member; and
            guide means directly or indirectly connected to the first and/or second magnetic
   member, the guide means comprising one or more co-operating surfaces operable to align the
30 first and second magnetic members when the first and second magnetic members are brought
   together into magnetic attachment.
   Preferably, the guide means comprises one or more angled surfaces operable to align the first
   and second magnetic members when the first and second magnetic members are brought
35 together into magnetic attachment.

   Preferably, the guide means comprises a male guide means portion and a female guide means
   portion, the male and female guide means portions being configured to co-operate when the
   first and second magnetic members are magnetically attached, wherein the male guide means
   portion is directly or indirectly connected to the first or second magnetic member and the female
 5 guide means portion is directly or indirectly connected to the other of the first or second
   magnetic member.
   Preferably, the male and female guide means portions are connected to the first and second
   magnetic members such that the guide means is positioned between the first and second
 0 magnetic members when the first and second magnetic members are magnetically attached.
   In some embodiments, the male guide means portion is adjacent to a face of the first or second
   magnetic member and has one or more angled edges. The female guide means portion may be
   adjacent to a face of the other of the first or second magnetic member and may comprise a
 5 recess or opening configured to receive the male guide means portion.
   More preferably, the second magnetic member is mounted in a housing having an opening on
   its upper side, wherein the housing comprises a lip extending upwardly from an upper surface of
   the second magnetic member and defining the opening, the female guide means portion
 0 comprising the opening. The lip may be angled or bevelled to assist in receiving the male guide
   means portion.
   In some embodiments, the second magnetic member is embedded in an opening on an upper
   surface of the sliding panel, the edges of the opening forming the female guide means portion.
25
   Preferably, the male guide means portion comprises a plate member connected to the first
   magnetic member by a bolt. The plate member may comprise two ridges having angled or
   bevelled edges for co-operating with the female guide means portion. The plate member may
   comprise a channel between the two ridges adapted to receive the head of the bolt. The
30 channel may have a width such that the plate member can rotate the bolt in the manner of a
   spanner.
   According to a fourth aspect of the invention, there is provided a sliding panel suspension
   system comprising:
35          a first magnetic member suspended from and able to slide relative to a supporting
   member;

          a second magnetic member embedded in an upper surface of a sliding panel and
   capable of magnetic attachment to the first magnetic member to suspend the sliding panel from
   the supporting member; and
          at least one ferromagnetic member positioned proximate the second magnetic member
 5 and operable to strengthen the magnetic field generated by the second magnetic member.
   Preferably, the sliding panel suspension system comprises a housing for the second magnetic
   member, wherein the housing comprises the at least one ferromagnetic member.
 o More preferably, the housing comprises opposing lateral sides formed from ferromagnetic
   material.
   More preferably, the housing comprises further opposing lateral sides formed from non
   ferromagnetic material.
 5
   Preferably, upper edges of the opposing lateral sides and/or further opposing lateral sides of the
   housing may be inwardly angled.
   Further aspects of the invention, which should be considered in all its novel aspects, will
 0 become apparent to those skilled in the art upon reading of the following description which
   provides at least one example of a practical application of the invention.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
25 One or more embodiments of the invention will be described below by way of example only, and
   without intending to be limiting, with reference to the following drawings, in which:
   Figure 1        is an exploded view illustration of a sliding panel suspension system according to
                  a first embodiment of the invention;
30
   Figure 2        is a cross-sectional view illustration of the sliding panel suspension system of
                   Figure 1 when the suspension system has been used to suspend a sliding panel;
   Figure 3        is a plan view of parts of a sliding panel suspension assembly according to
35                another embodiment of the invention;

   Figure 4          is a side view of parts of the sliding panel suspension assembly shown in Figure
                     3;
   Figure 5          is a side view illustration of the parts of the sliding panel suspension system
 5                   shown in Figures 3 and 4 in use with a sliding panel;
   Figure 6          is a side view illustration of a sliding panel suspension system according to
                     another embodiment of the invention; and
 0 Figure 7          is a side view illustration of a sliding panel suspension system according to
                     another embodiment of the invention.
   Detailed Description of Preferred Embodiments of the Invention
 5 The invention generally relates to systems and assemblies for suspending a sliding panel such
   as a door, screen or window. A sliding panel may be used to cover an opening in a wall, for
   example. The invention may have particular application to cavity door sliders, which slide out of
   a recess in a wall to cover the opening.
 o The sliding panel systems and assemblies according to preferred embodiments of the invention
   may be configured to operate in conjunction with some components of conventional sliding
   panel systems, such as conventional rails or racks, along which the panel is able to slide,
   mounted on a supporting member such as a door frame. Other components of conventional
   sliding panel systems may be easily able to be adapted to operate in conjunction with, or as part
25 of, the invention.
   Figure 1 is an exploded view illustration of a sliding panel suspension system 10 according to a
   first embodiment of the invention. Suspension system 10 comprises a first part 101 suspended
   from a rail of a supporting member such as a door frame, and a second part 102 connected to a
30 sliding panel such as a door.
   The first part 101 comprises suspension means for suspending a suspension assembly from a
   rack or rail. In the embodiment shown, the suspension means comprises a wheel unit 11 having
   one or more wheels 12 for rolling along a rail. Extending below the wheel unit 11 is an elongate
35 member 13 to which is connected a first magnetic member in the form of a magnetic plate 14,

   and a male guide plate 15. The magnetic plate 14 may be formed from a ferromagnetic material
   and may be a magnet or may be capable of being attracted to a magnet.
   The elongate member 13 may comprise a bolt 26 on which is mounted a nut 17. The bolt can be
 5 adjusted to alter the height that the ferromagnetic plate 14 is suspended below the wheel unit
   11, and therefore adjust the height at which the sliding panel is suspended.
   The second part 102 of the sliding panel suspension system 10 comprises one or more
   magnetic members 18 and a housing 19. The second part 102 may, in use, be embedded in the
 0 upper surface of a sliding panel 20, as shown in Figure 2, which is a cross-sectional view
   illustration of the sliding panel suspension system 10 of Figure 1 when the suspension system
   has been used to suspend sliding panel 20. By embedding the second part 102 in the sliding
   panel, larger and more powerful magnets can be used to suspend heavier sliding panels without
   increasing the distance between the sliding panel and the supporting rail.
 5
   Magnetic members 18 may comprise one or more magnets, such as ferrite slab magnets. The
   magnets 18 are capable of magnetic attachment to the magnetic plate 14. It will be appreciated
   that in this and other embodiments of the invention, the suspension system comprises pairs of
   magnetic members that can be magnetically attached together. The invention covers
 0 embodiments in which either or both magnetic members of each pair are magnetised, i.e.
   produce a magnetic field.
   Housing 19 may comprise a first housing member 21 in the form of a U-shaped member
   adapted to accommodate opposing lateral sides of the ferrite magnets between its ends. The
25 first housing member 21 may be formed from a non-magnetic material such as plastic or nylon.
   Housing 19 may further comprise one or more further housing members. In the embodiment
   shown in Figures 1 and 2, housing 19 further comprises side members 22 adapted to cover the
   other opposing lateral sides of the ferrite magnets 18. Side members 22 may be formed from a
30 ferromagnetic material such as steel. The side members may comprise or be connected to
   flanges 23 which, in use, abut the upper surface of panel 20 to hold the housing at the top of a
   recess in the sliding panel 20, and may be fastened thereto.
   Housing members 21 and 22 may be configured to be arranged together in any way to form
35 housing 19. The housing 19 holds the one or more magnets 18 in position and, by covering
   opposing lateral sides of the magnets 18 with ferromagnetic members, the housing operates to

   increase the strength of magnetic field generated by the magnets 18. In some embodiments, the
   ends of the magnets 18 are not covered by a ferromagnetic material since this may reduce the
   magnetic field strength produced by the magnets. The two side members 22 of housing 19
   should not touch, or the magnetic strength of the magnets 18 will be reduced. To reduce the risk
 5 of this happening, for example in case of poor installation, the side members may be formed
   from plane sheets of steel or other ferromagnetic material in other embodiments of the
   invention.
   In some embodiments of the invention, the suspension system comprises guide means to assist
 0 in aligning the magnetic plate 14 of the first part 101 with the magnets 18 of the second part
   102. In the embodiment shown in Figures 1 and 2, the guide means comprises a male guide
   means portion in the form of male guide plate 15 and a female guide means portion which
   comprises an opening formed by the upper edges of housing 19 and/or the recess in the upper
   surface of the sliding panel in which it is positioned. For example, the ferrite slab magnets 18
 5 may sit within housing 19 such that the edges of the housing formed by side members 22
   extend beyond the upper edge of the slab magnets 18 to create a lip, which defines the
   opening. When the first and second parts 101 and 102 are brought into close proximity, the
   magnets 18 attract the magnetic plate 14. The male guide plate 15 is sized such that, when the
   magnetic components are engaged together as shown in Figure 2, the male guide plate 15 will
 0 sit inside the top of the opening formed by the upper edges of housing 19.
   The male guide plate 15 of the embodiment shown in Figures 1 and 2 comprises two ridges 16
   arranged in parallel along the edges of the plate and extending from an underside of a planar
   portion. The ridges 16 are positioned and sized to fit into the opening formed by the upper
25 edges of housing 19. The ridges 16 each have an angled or bevelled outer side. In use, as the
   first part 101 and second part 102 are brought together, the angled surfaces of the ridges 16
   come into contact with the lip formed by the upper surfaces of housing 19 and cause the first
   part 101 to align with the second part 102 so that the magnetic plate 14 is centrally located
   relative to the magnets 18.
30
   Ridges 16 are separated by a gap or channel 24. The width and height of the channel 24 is
   such that the bolt head 90 of bolt 26 can be accommodated by the channel and does not
   protrude downwards below the level of the bottom of ridges 16. This prevents the bolt head 90
   from abutting against magnets 18, which could damage the magnets or cause the engagement
35 of the first and second parts to be unstable because the magnetic plate 14 would tend to topple
   around the point at which the nut contact the magnets.

   The channel 24 may have a width only slightly wider than the width of the bolt head 90. This
   prevents the bolt 26 from turning if the stem of wheel assembly 11 is turned, allowing the panel
   height to be adjusted by turning the stem of wheel assembly without the need to disconnect the
 5 panel from the suspension system. Alternatively, if the panel is disconnected and the height
   needs to be adjusted without disengaging the wheel assembly from its runner, nut 17 may be
   loosened from the bottom of the wheel assembly 11, allowing the height to be adjusted by the
   rotation of male guide plate 15 causing the bolt 26 to turn, effectively acting like a spanner. In
   embodiments where the male guide plate 15 is made of a plastic or nylon material, the presence
 0 of the channel 24 may assist in causing the bolt head 90 to grip the guide plate 15.
   As explained above, the guide means helps to ensure the first and second parts of the
   suspension system are correctly aligned and therefore the sliding panel is aligned as intended
   relative to the rail. In the case of a cavity sliding door, this may be essential to ensure the door
 5 slides into the cavity without rubbing against the edges of the cavity.
   It will be understood that the co-operating surfaces which guide the first and second parts
   together into the intended alignment could be present on either or both of the male and female
   guide portions. For example, in the embodiment of Figures 1 and 2, the lip formed by the upper
 0 edges of housing 19 could be inwardly bevelled complimentary to the angle of the outer edges
   of ridges 16 to enable the male and female portions to co-operate as the first and second parts
   of the suspension system 10 are brought together.
   In another embodiment, the female portion may be formed by a recess or opening in a
25 component positioned on top of magnets 18, with the recess or opening being adapted to co
   operate with the male portion positioned beneath the magnetic plate 14. Any configuration of
   co-operating male and female parts may be used.
   In a still further embodiment, the co-operating male and female portions could be positioned
30 adjacent to the magnetic members instead of inline with them, although the inline configuration
   shown in Figures 1 and 2 minimises the footprint of the suspension device.
   In a still further embodiment, the male and female portions could be reversed from the examples
   discussed above, with the female portion forming part of the suspension assembly, for example.
35

   Figures 3 and 4 are plan and side views respectively of parts of a sliding panel suspension
   assembly 30 according to another embodiment of the invention. Figure 5 is a side view
   illustration of the parts of the sliding panel suspension system 30 shown in Figures 3 and 4 in
   use with a sliding panel 31.
 5
   Although not shown in Figures 3 to 5, the suspension assembly 30 comprises means for
   suspending the assembly from a slide rail on a support member. Any suitable manner of
   suspension means may be used, for example a wheel unit and bolt similar to those discussed in
   relation to Figures 1 and 2.
 0
   Suspension assembly 30 comprises first and second magnetic members which are mounted on
   either end of a mounting means in the form of a mounting plate 34. The magnetic members may
   take the form of magnets 32 and 33 that are mounted on the mounting plate 34 by means of
   bolts 35. Slots 36 may be provided in the mounting plate 34 to enable the position of the
 5 magnets 32 and 33 to be adjusted, which may be useful in adjusting the suspension position of
   sliding panel 31.
   The magnets 32 and 33 are mounted on the mounting plate 34 in such a way that their lower
   surfaces lie in a common substantially horizontal plane. In the embodiment shown in Figures 3
 0 to 5, magnets 32 and 33 are the same size and mounting plate 34 is itself substantially
   horizontal.
   Mounting plate 34 may be connected to the suspension means in any suitable manner,
   including in a similar way to the manner of connection between the mounting plate and wheel
25 unit described in relation to Figures 1 and 2. In the example of Figures 3 to 5, mounting plate 34
   comprises a hole or opening 37 which is configured to receive a downwardly extending portion
   of the suspension means, for example a bolt or the like. The mounting plate 34 may be able to
   be released from the suspension means, for example the suspension assembly 30 may
   comprise a lever arm 38 rotatably connected to the mounting plate 34 such that, in an open
30 position (as shown in Figure 3), a bolt can be moved into opening 37 while, in a closed position,
   the bolt remains in place. The lever arm 38 is quick to release so that the mounting plate 34 can
   be disengaged from the suspension assembly quickly if necessary.
   The suspension assembly 30 is configured to magnetically connect to a sliding panel 31 on
35 which are mounted further magnetic members such as magnets 39 and 40. Magnets 39 and 40
   are generally positioned on or in an upper surface of the sliding panel 31. For example, in the

   embodiment shown in Figure 5, magnets 39 and 40 are screwed into recesses in the upper
   surface by fasteners 41. The recesses are sized such that they can receive the magnets 32 and
   33 of the suspension assembly 30.
 5 In another embodiment of the invention, magnetic members 39 and 40 are replaced with steel
   washers. The washers are able to magnetically connect to magnets 32 and 33 but, for
   components of equal size, with a lower magnetic attraction force in comparison to embodiments
   in which the magnetic members 39 and 40 are rare earth magnets. Therefore the invention in
   this embodiment may suitable where a lighter panel is suspended or the panel needs to be
 0 detached more easily.
   In use, the sliding panel 31 is lifted such that pairs of the respective magnets of the sliding panel
   31 and suspension assembly 30 are brought together to suspend the sliding panel 31 from the
   rail on which the suspension assembly is itself suspended.
 5
   In the embodiment shown, the mounting plate is able to rotate horizontally around the bolt of the
   suspension means. This allows the suspension assembly to easily align with the sliding panel to
   which it is to be attached.
 0 In some embodiments of the invention, the magnets 32 and 33 on the mounting plate 34 are
   mounted with their polarities in opposite directions. For example, the magnet 32 may have its
   north pole facing downwards while the magnet 33 has its south pole facing downwards.
   Similarly, the magnets 39 and 40 on the sliding panel 31 have their polarities oppositely aligned.
   This means that the magnet 32 will be attracted to one of the panel magnets but repelled from
25 the other panel magnet, with the magnet 33 being respectively attracted and repelled from the
   panel magnets the other way around. As a result, when the sliding panel 31 is brought into
   engagement with the suspension assembly and the respective magnets are brought into
   proximity with one another, the mutually attracting panel and suspension magnets will cause the
   mounting plate 34 to rotate to bring them together while at the same time the mutually repulsive
30 magnets will cause the mounting plate 34 to push them apart. This action acts to align the
   mounting plate with the sliding panel to a high degree of accuracy so that the sliding panel is
   suspended in the intended position.
   Alignment may also be assisted where the recesses in which the magnets 39 and 40 are
35 located are of similar size to magnets 32 and 33. In this way, the recess in which magnets 39
   and 40 are located act as a female guide portion, while the magnets 32 and 33 act as a male

   guide portion. The sides of the recess may be angled to help guide the magnets into the recess.
   The embodiment of the invention shown in Figures 3 to 5 may comprise any other guide means
   to assist in aligning the two parts of the suspension system, including any of those described
   above in relation to Figures 1 and 2.
 5
   Figure 6 is a side view illustration of a sliding panel suspension system 60 according to another
   embodiment of the invention. The suspending part of suspension system 60 is similar to that
   shown in Figures 3-5 and like references are used to refer to like parts in the Figure.
   Suspension system 60 differs from the embodiment of Figures 3-5 in that a magnetic plate
 0 member 61 is positioned on or in an upper surface of the suspended panel 31.
   In some embodiments of the invention, magnetic plate member 61 may consist of a steel plate
   positioned inside a recess 62 inside the top of panel 31. Compared to the embodiment in which
   steel washers are used in the position of magnetic members 39 and 40 shown in Figure 5, the
 5 embodiment of Figure 6 has different advantages or disadvantages that may make it more
   suited to particular installations. On the one hand, the recess 62 in which steel plate 61 is
   positioned is a channel that must be grouted out (in the case of a wooden door panel), which
   may be a more time consuming process than drilling the holes required for the circular magnetic
   washers 39 and 40 of Figure 5. On the other hand, the steel plate version of the invention
 0 shown in Figure 6 may provide more tolerance to the positioning of the suspended panel, which
   may be desirable in some circumstances (although not in others).
   Figure 7 is a side view illustration of a sliding panel suspension system 70 according to another
   embodiment of the invention. Suspension system 70 has similarities to the suspension systems
25 described earlier in this specification. Only some of the differing features of system 70 will now
   be described.
   Suspension system 70 includes a suspension assembly 71 suitable for suspending the
   assembly from a rail in a similar manner to the embodiment of Figures 1 and 2. The mounting
30 plate of the embodiment of Figure 7 differs from those of earlier embodiments. Mounting plate
   72 has two wing sections, to which magnets 73 may be attached using bolts or the like passing
   through holes in the wing sections. Between the two wing sections is a raised central section
   having a hole or slot therein able to receive a bolt or other connector for connecting the
   mounting plate 72 to the wheel unit. The mounting plate is able to rotate on the connector.
35

   In the embodiment shown in Figure 7, the magnets 73 connect to other magnets 74 embedded
   into panel 75. In other embodiments of the invention, magnets 74 may be replaced by
   ferromagnetic members, such as steel washers, or a steel plate as shown in the embodiment of
   Figure 6.
 5
   Mounting plate 72 is suspended from the wheel unit of suspension assembly 71 via suspension
   mechanism 76, which may comprise a bolt and nut in a similar manner to that described in
   relation to Figures 1 and 2. For example, by rotation of the nut or the stem of the wheel unit
   allows the height at which the panel is suspended below the wheel unit to be adjusted.
 0
   The embodiments of the invention described above enable a sliding panel to be quickly and
   easily disengaged from a suspension assembly by pulling down on the panel to overcome the
   attractive force between the respective magnetic members. It will be appreciated that this action
   has considerable advantages to prior art systems in which bolts or fasteners need to be
 5 loosened to disengage the sliding panel or in systems that have suspension assemblies in a
   position that is difficult to access.
   It will be appreciated that the size and strength of magnets used in the different embodiments of
   the invention can be tailored to the requirements of the system. For example, the heavier the
 0 panel that needs to be suspended, the more powerful the magnets may need to be, or the
   higher number of magnets may be required. In one embodiment, the suspension assembly of
   Figures 3 to 5 may comprise rare earth magnets such as neodymium magnets and two sets of
   such a suspension assembly may be able to suspend sliding panels having a weight of up to
   100kg. In another embodiment, the suspension assembly of Figures 1 and 2 may comprise two
25 ferrite slab magnets and two sets of such a suspension assembly may be able to suspend
   sliding panels having a weight of up to 68kg.
   It will be understood that other components of the suspension system may also have to be able
   to cope with the weight of the sliding panel, such as the manner in which the slide rail is fixed to
30 the supporting member and the size and strength of the wheels that run along the slide rail.
   It is generally desirable to select magnets that securely suspend the sliding panel while enabling
   the sliding panel to be disengaged with a pull. If the magnets are not strong enough the panel
   may fall off the suspension and risk damage to the panel, the floor or nearby objects.
35 Conversely, if the magnets are overly strong, it may be too difficult to remove the panel and
   such a sharp pull may be required as to risk damage to the objects listed above. In some

   embodiments, it may be desirable to pry the magnetic members apart rather than by using a pull
   since this may reduce the risk of damage.
   Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the claims, the
 5 words "comprise", "comprising", and the like, are to be construed in an inclusive sense as
   opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense, that is to say, in the sense of "including, but not
   limited to".
   The entire disclosures of all applications, patents and publications cited above and below, if any,
 o are herein incorporated by reference.
   Reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as, an
   acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that that prior art forms part of the common general
   knowledge in the field of endeavour in any country in the world.
 5
   The invention may also be said broadly to consist in the parts, elements and features referred to
   or indicated in the specification of the application, individually or collectively, in any or all
   combinations of two or more of said parts, elements or features.
 o Where in the foregoing description reference has been made to integers or components having
   known equivalents thereof, those integers are herein incorporated as if individually set forth.
   It should be noted that various changes and modifications to the presently preferred
   embodiments described herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Such changes and
25 modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention and
   without diminishing its attendant advantages. It is therefore intended that such changes and
   modifications be included within the present invention.

   Claims
   1.     A sliding panel suspension assembly for suspending a sliding panel from a supporting
          member,
 5                wherein the sliding panel comprises a first sliding panel magnetic member and a
                  second sliding panel magnetic member, the second sliding panel magnetic
                   member having a magnetic polarity which is oppositely aligned to a magnetic
                   polarity of the first sliding panel magnetic member,
          the sliding panel suspension assembly comprising:
 0                first and second magnetic members;
                   mounting means on which are mounted the first and second magnetic members
          such that a lower surface of each of the first and second magnetic members lies on a
          substantially horizontal plane; and
                  suspension means for suspending the mounting means from the supporting
 5        member, the suspension means being configured to slide along the supporting member,
                  wherein the mounting means is rotationally attached to the suspension means
          such that the mounting means is able to rotate in a substantially horizontal plane, and
                  wherein the first and second magnetic members are capable of magnetic
          attachment to the first sliding panel magnetic member and the second sliding panel
 0        magnetic member, respectively to suspend the sliding panel from the supporting
          member when in use, wherein the first and second magnetic members are magnetised
          such that, in use, the first magnetic member is attracted to the first sliding panel
          magnetic member and repelled from the second sliding panel magnetic member, and the
          second magnetic member is attracted to the second sliding panel magnetic member and
25        repelled from the first sliding panel magnetic member.
   2.     A sliding panel suspension assembly as claimed in any one of the preceding claims,
          wherein at least one of the first and second magnetic members are formed from rare
30        earth magnets such as neodymium magnets.
   3.     A sliding panel suspension assembly as claimed in any one of the preceding claims,
          wherein the sliding panel suspension assembly comprises releasable means for
          connecting the mounting means to the suspension means.
35
   4.     A sliding panel suspension assembly as claimed in any one of the preceding claims,
          wherein the suspension assembly comprises guide means directly or indirectly
          connected to the first and/or second magnetic member, the guide means comprising one
                                                       17

       or more surfaces operable to align the first and/or second magnetic members with the
       respective magnetic members of the sliding panel when the first and second magnetic
       members are brought into magnetic attachment with the magnetic members of the
       sliding panel.
 5
   5.  A sliding panel suspension assembly as claimed in claim 4, wherein the guide means
       comprises at least one male guide means portion configured to cooperate with at least
       one female guide means portion on the sliding panel when the first and/or second
       magnetic members are magnetically attached to the respective magnetic members of
 0     the sliding panel.
   6.  A sliding panel suspension assembly as claimed in claim 5, wherein the first and/or
       second magnetic member comprises the male guide means portion.
 5 7.  A sliding panel suspension assembly as claimed in claim 5 or 6, wherein the at least one
       male guide means portion is configured to cooperate with the edges of at least one
       opening on an upper surface of the sliding panel, wherein each of the magnetic
       members of the sliding panel are embedded in the at least one opening, wherein the
       edges of the opening form the female guide means portion.
 0
   8.  A sliding panel suspension assembly as claimed in any one of the preceding claims,
       wherein the sliding panel suspension assembly comprises means for adjusting the
       height that the sliding panel is suspended below the supporting member.
 5 9.  A sliding panel suspension assembly as claimed in claim 8, wherein the means for
       adjusting the height that the sliding panel is suspended below the supporting member is
       configured to allow the height to be adjusted without disengaging the sliding panel from
       the supporting member and/or without disengaging the suspension means from the
       supporting member.
30
   10. A sliding panel suspension assembly as claimed in claim 8 or 9, wherein the suspension
       means comprises a bolt connecting the suspension means and the mounting means,
       wherein rotation of the bolt adjusts the height that the sliding panel is suspended below
       the supporting member.
35
   11. A sliding panel suspension assembly as claimed in any one of the preceding claims,
       wherein the mounting means is connected to the suspension means via a quick-release
       mechanism.
                                                 18

   12.   A sliding panel suspension assembly as claimed in claim 11, wherein the suspension
         assembly comprises a lever arm rotatably connected to the mounting means and
         moveable between an open position, in which a part of the suspension means can be
 5       moved into an opening in the mounting means, and a closed position, in which the part
         of the suspension means is prevented from leaving the opening in the mounting means.
   13.   A sliding panel suspension system comprising:
 0       -        a sliding panel suspension assembly comprising mounting means on which are
         mounted first and second magnetic members, the second magnetic member having a
         magnetic polarity which is oppositely aligned to a magnetic polarity of the first magnetic
         member, wherein the first and second magnetic mounting members are mounted to the
         mounting means such that a lower surface of each of the first and second magnetic
 5       members lies on a substantially horizontal plane;
         -        suspension means for suspending the mounting means from the supporting
         member, the suspension means being configured to slide along the supporting member,
         wherein the mounting means is rotationally attached to the suspension means such that
         the mounting means is able to rotate in a substantially horizontal plane, and
 0     - a sliding panel comprising a first sliding panel magnetic member and a second sliding
         panel magnetic member;
         wherein
         the first and second magnetic members are capable of magnetic attachment to the first
         sliding panel magnetic member and the second sliding panel magnetic member,
 5       respectively, to suspend the sliding panel from the supporting member, wherein the first
         and second magnetic members are magnetised such that the first magnetic member is
         attracted to the first sliding panel magnetic member and repelled from the second sliding
         panel magnetic member, and the second magnetic member is attracted to the second
         sliding panel magnetic member and repelled from the first sliding panel magnetic
30       member; and
         wherein the sliding panel is magnetically connected to the sliding panel suspension
         assembly.
                                                    19

<removed-date>
                                         Figure 1
                                           11
                    10
                                                    12
                                                     13
<removed-apn>
                                    17
                                    26
                                                    90
              101
                                                         14
                                                          15
                          16
                               24                         18
                                                              21
              102
                                                              23    19
                         22
                                                               22
                     23

<removed-date>
                             Figure 2
<removed-apn>
                   10         11
                                        12
                        17              13
              20
                        26                   14
                                             22

<removed-date>
                         Figure 3
                           32
              30
<removed-apn>                          36
                                         38
              37
              34
               36
                    33

<removed-date>
                             Figure 4
                        30
<removed-apn>
                                        38
                                                  35
              35
                             34              33
                   32

<removed-date>
                                  Figure 5
<removed-apn>
                   30
                             34         38
                                                  35
              35
                                                        33
              32
                                                        31
                                                       40
              39
                        41                   41

<removed-date>
                              Figure 6
<removed-apn>
                   60
                         34              38
                                                   35
              35
                                                        33
              32
                                                        31
                                         62
                               61
                        41                    41

<removed-date>
                        Figure 7
                   70
<removed-apn>
                                        71
              72                        76
              73                        73
                                             75
                                   74

