         DRUG MONITORING AND REGULATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS
                                           ABSTRACT
        Systems and methods for monitoring and regulating the concentration of a drug in a
subject are provided. A method may include administering to a subject a first dose of a
pharmaceutical composition at a first time point. Next, a concentration of an active ingredient of
the pharmaceutical composition or a metabolite thereof, or a biological marker indicative of the
concentration of the pharmaceutical composition in the subject, may be determined from a
biological sample of the subject with the aid of a point of care system. A second dose of the
pharmaceutical composition may be administered to the subject at a second time point. The
second dose and/or the interval between the first and second time points may be determined
based on the concentration of the pharmaceutical composition in the subject.

          DRUG MONITORING AND REGULATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS
                                       CROSS REFERENCE
[0001] This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/717,609 filed
October 23, 2012, which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety for all purposes.
                                          BACKGROUND
[0002] There are currently methods available in the art for monitoring and/or regulating the
concentration of a drug in a patient. However, available methods typically are slow,
complicated, error-prone, and/or imprecise. FIG. 1 schematically illustrates a process workflow
for monitoring the concentration of a drug in a subject (e.g., patient). The arrows in the figure
indicate the flow of information and/or samples to and from various entities illustrated in the
figure. A doctor or technician may monitor the concentration of a drug in the subject. In some
cases, the doctor may request that a clinic remove a sample of body tissue or fluid, such as blood
or saliva, from the patient to monitor the concentration of the drug in the patient. In such a case,
a technician, or other party authorized to withdraw a tissue sample from a patient, retrieves a
blood or tissue sample from a patient and measures the concentration of a drug in the patient.
This typically requires the technician send the blood or tissue sample to a laboratory where such
concentration is determined. In some situations, once the concentration of the drug has been
determined, a specialist, such as a technician or pathologist, reviews the concentration to
determine whether the dosage of drug for the patient needs to be increased, decreased (e.g.,
lowered, terminated), or not changed. The specialist then instructs the doctor by either
communicating instructions to the doctor or inputting the instructions to an information source,
such as a patient database. In the latter case, the doctor accesses information source to retrieve
the pathologist's instructions. The doctor then instructs the patient to increase the dosage of the
patient's drug, decrease the dosage, or keep the dosage constant. The doctor subsequently
updates the patient's medical record in a medical records database.
[0003] Improved systems and methods for monitoring the concentration of a drug in a patient
and developing drug dosage regimens for patients are needed.
                                             SUMMARY
[0004] In embodiments, methods for monitoring the concentration of a drug or a metabolite of
the drug in a subject and of administering a drug to a subject are provided. In one embodiment, a
method for administering a pharmaceutical composition to a subject comprises administering to
the subject a first dose of a pharmaceutical composition at a first time point; determining from a
                                                  -1 -

biological sample of said subject a concentration of an active ingredient of said pharmaceutical
composition or a metabolite thereof, or a biological marker indicative of the concentration of
said pharmaceutical composition in said subject, wherein said determining is carried out with the
aid of a point of care system; and administering to said subject a second dose of said
pharmaceutical composition at a second time point, wherein said second dose and/or the interval
between said first and second time points is determined based on said concentration of said
pharmaceutical composition in said subject.
[0005] In another embodiment, a method for administering a pharmaceutical composition to a
subject comprises administering to the subject a second dose of said pharmaceutical composition
at a third time point, wherein said second dose and said third time point is determined by: (i)
administering to said subject a first dose of a pharmaceutical composition at a first time point;
(ii) determining from a biological sample of said subject a concentration of an active ingredient
of said pharmaceutical composition or a metabolite thereof, or a biological marker indicative of
the concentration of said pharmaceutical composition in said subject at a second time point,
wherein said determining is carried out with a point of care system, thereby determining said
second dose and the interval between said second and third time points based on said blood
concentration determined at said second time point.
[0006] In another embodiment, a method for monitoring the concentration of a pharmaceutical
composition in a subject comprises prescribing to the subject a pharmaceutical composition at a
first dose and at a first time; determining from a biological sample of said subject a concentration
of an active ingredient of said pharmaceutical composition or a metabolite thereof, or a
biological marker indicative of the concentration of said pharmaceutical composition in said
subject with the aid of a point of care system at a predetermined interval; and prescribing to the
subject a second dose of the pharmaceutical composition at a second time based on the
determined blood concentration.
[0007] In other embodiments, systems for monitoring a concentration of a drug or a metabolite
of the drug in a subject are provided. In an embodiment, a system for monitoring a concentration
of a drug in the subject comprises a point of care module for monitoring a concentration of an
active ingredient of a pharmaceutical composition or a metabolite thereof, or a biological marker
indicative of the concentration of said pharmaceutical composition in said subject; a drug
monitoring module in communication with the point of care module, the drug monitoring
module for providing one or more set point concentrations of an active ingredient of a
pharmaceutical composition or a metabolite thereof in the subject; and a medical record module
                                                  -2-

comprising records of doses in time, the medical record module for storing and providing a
medical record of the subject.
[0008] In another embodiment, a method for administering a pharmaceutical composition to a
subject is provided, comprising: (a) administering to a subject a first dose of a pharmaceutical
composition at a first time point; (b) obtaining a biological sample of said subject with the aid of
a point of care system; (c) measuring, with the aid of the point of care system and the use of said
biological sample, concentration of an active ingredient of said pharmaceutical composition or a
metabolite thereof, or a biological marker indicative of the concentration of said pharmaceutical
composition present in said subject; (d) calculating, with the aid of a computer processor, dosage
and/or time interval between dosages based on said concentration measured in step (c); and (e)
administering to said subject a second dose of said pharmaceutical composition at a second time
point according to said calculated dosage and/or time interval of step (d). Step (a) may be carried
out with the aid of the point of care system and without the involvement of any human other than
the subject. Step (c) may be carried out with the aid of the point of care system and without the
involvement of any human other than the subject. Step (e) may be carried out with the aid of the
point of care system and without the involvement of any human other than the subject. Step (c)
may comprise measuring the blood concentration of said active ingredient of said pharmaceutical
composition or a metabolite thereof. The method may further comprise comparing said
concentration to one or more set-point concentrations; and calculating the second dose based on
the difference between said concentration and the one or more set-point concentrations. The
method may further comprise monitoring, with the aid of a computer processor, the progression
of a health condition of said subject in response to administering said first dose and/or said
second dose. The method may further comprise adjusting said first dose, said second dose
and/or said interval based on said monitoring.
[0009] In another embodiment, a method for administering a pharmaceutical composition to a
subject is provided, comprising: administering to a subject a second dose of said pharmaceutical
composition at a third time point, wherein said second dose and said third time point is
determined by: (a) administering to said subject a first dose of a pharmaceutical composition at a
first time point; (b) obtaining a biological sample of said subject with the aid of a point of care
system; (c) measuring, with the aid of the point of care system and the user of said biological
sample, concentration of an active ingredient of said pharmaceutical composition or a metabolite
thereof, or a biological marker indicative of the concentration of said pharmaceutical
composition present in said subject at a second time point; and (d) calculating, with the aid of a
computer processor, dosage and/or time interval between dosages based on said concentration
                                                 -3 -

measured in step (c), thereby determining said second dose and/or the interval between said
second and third time points. Step (c) may comprise measuring the blood concentration of said
active ingredient of said pharmaceutical composition or a metabolite thereof. The method may
further comprise comparing said concentration to one or more set-point concentrations; and
calculating the second dose based on the difference between said concentration and the one or
more set-point concentrations. The method may further comprise monitoring, with the aid of a
computer processor, the progression of a health condition of said subject in response to
administering said first dose and/or said second dose. The method may further comprise
adjusting said first dose, said second dose and/or said interval based on said monitoring.
[0010] In another embodiment, a method for monitoring the concentration of a pharmaceutical
composition in a subject is provided, comprising: (a) prescribing to a subject a first dose of a
pharmaceutical composition at a first time; (b) obtaining a biological sample of said subject with
the aid of a point of care system; (c) measuring, with the aid of the point of care system and the
user of the said biological sample, concentration of an active ingredient of said pharmaceutical
composition or a metabolite thereof, or a biological marker indicative of the concentration of
said pharmaceutical composition present in said subject; and (d) calculating, with the aid of a
computer processor, dosage and/or time interval between dosages based on said concentration
measured in step (c); and (e) prescribing to the subject a second dose of the pharmaceutical
composition at a second time according to said calculated dosage and/or time interval of step (d).
The method may further comprise comparing, with the aid of a processor, said measured
concentration of step (c) to the one or more set-point concentrations; and calculating the second
dose based on the difference between said measured concentration and the one or more set-point
concentrations. The method may further comprise monitoring, with the aid of a computer
processor, the progression of a health condition of said subject in response to prescribing said
first dose and/or said second dose. The method may further comprise determining said first
dose, said second dose and/or said predetermined interval based on said monitoring.
[0011] In another embodiment, a system for monitoring a concentration of a drug in a subject is
provided, comprising: a point of care module for monitoring, with the aid of a computer
processor, a concentration of an active ingredient of a pharmaceutical composition or a
metabolite thereof, or a biological marker indicative of the concentration of said pharmaceutical
composition in said subject: a drug monitoring module in communication with the point of care
module, the drug monitoring module for providing one or more set point concentrations of an
active ingredient of a pharmaceutical composition or a metabolite thereof in the subject; and a
medical record module comprising records of doses in time, the medical record module for
                                                -4-

storing and providing a medical record of the subject. In some embodiments, the drug
monitoring module may provide the one or more set point concentrations with the aid of a
predetermined table. In some embodiments, the drug monitoring module may provide the one or
more set point concentrations with the aid of a learning engine. In some embodiments, the
system may further comprise an output module for providing one or more instructions to the
subject. The one or more instructions may be selected from dose instructions and administration
instructions for a pharmaceutical composition. In some embodiments, the system may further
comprise a server in communication with the point of care module and the medical records
module. The server may include one or more of a learning engine, protocols and calibration
protocols.
[0012] In another embodiment, a method for recommending a dose of a pharmaceutical
composition to a subject is provided, comprising: administering to the subject at a first point in
time a dose of the pharmaceutical composition; using a point of care system to determine
concentration data for an active ingredient of said pharmaceutical composition, a metabolite of
an active ingredient of said pharmaceutical composition, or a biological marker indicative of the
concentration of said pharmaceutical composition in said subject; comparing, by a computing
device, a) the concentration data and b) at least one set point value, wherein the set point value is
stored in computer memory, retrieved from a data structure, or calculated by the computing
device; in response to comparing the concentration data and the at least one set point value,
directing the computing device to determine if at least one change in a dosing regimen for the
pharmaceutical composition is desired in order to have the concentration of said pharmaceutical
composition be in a desired range, said computing device utilizing a predictive model based at
least in part on pharmacokinetic data of the pharmaceutical composition; and generating a
recommendation for at least a next dose of said pharmaceutical composition, wherein the
recommendation sets forth at least one of: a) an amount of the next dose or b) a time for applying
the next dose. In some embodiments, the method may further comprise directing a processor to
modify a patient history data structure to store concentration data related to the pharmaceutical
composition administered at the first point in time, wherein the patient history data structure is
configured to store longitudinal data regarding concentration from other points in time.
[0013] In some embodiments, in a system, method, or device described above or elsewhere
herein involving administering to a subject a first dose of a pharmaceutical composition, the
administering is carried out with the aid of the point of care system and without the involvement
of any human other than the subject.
                                                 -5-

[0014] In some embodiments, in a system, method, or device described above or elsewhere
herein involving measuring, with the aid of the point of care system and the use of said
biological sample, concentration of an active ingredient of a pharmaceutical composition or a
metabolite thereof, or a biological marker indicative of the concentration of a pharmaceutical
composition present in a subject, the measuring is carried out with the aid of the point of care
system and without the involvement of any human other than the subject.
[0015] In some embodiments, in a system, method, or device described above or elsewhere
herein involving administering to a subject a second dose of a pharmaceutical composition, the
administering is carried out with the aid of the point of care system and without the involvement
of any human other than the subject.
[0016] In some embodiments, in a system, method, or device described above or elsewhere
herein involving comparing a concentration to one or more set-point concentrations, the
comparing comprises comparing the concentration to a subject-specific maximum drug
concentration and a subject-specific minimum drug concentration.
[0017] In some embodiments, in a system, method, or device described above or elsewhere
herein involving subject-specific maximum and subject-specific minimum drug concentrations,
the subject-specific maximum and subject-specific minimum drug concentrations are determined
based on maximum concentrations and minimum concentrations of a plurality of subject-specific
drug concentration profiles.
[0018] In some embodiments, in a system, method, or device described above or elsewhere
herein involving comparing a drug concentration to one or more set-point concentrations, the
comparing comprises comparing the drug concentration to an average set point concentration.
[0019] In some embodiments, in a system, method, or device described above or elsewhere
herein involving an average set-point concentration, the average set-point concentration is a
time-averaged set-point concentration.
[0020] In some embodiments, in a system, method, or device described above or elsewhere
herein involving one or more set-point concentrations, the one or more set-point concentrations
are subject-specific set-point concentrations.
[0021] In some embodiments, in a system, method, or device described above or elsewhere
herein involving measuring the blood concentration of the active ingredient of a pharmaceutical
composition or a metabolite thereof, the blood concentration is measured in real-time.
[0022] In some embodiments, in a system, method, or device described above or elsewhere
herein involving measuring the blood concentration of the active ingredient of a pharmaceutical
                                                 -6-

composition or a metabolite thereof, the blood concentration is measured at predetermined
intervals.
[0023] In some embodiments, in a system, method, or device described above or elsewhere
herein involving a point of care system, the point of care system is operatively coupled to the
blood or tissue of the subject.
[0024] In some embodiments, in a system, method, or device described above or elsewhere
herein involving a biological sample, the biological sample is blood.
[0025] This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that
are further described below in the Detailed Description. Additional aspects and advantages of the
present disclosure will become readily apparent to those skilled in this art from the following
Detailed Description. As will be realized, the present disclosure is capable of other and different
embodiments, and its several details are capable of modifications in various obvious respects, all
without departing from the disclosure. Accordingly, the drawings and description are to be
regarded as illustrative in nature, and not as restrictive.
                              INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
[0026] All publications, patents, and patent applications mentioned in this specification are
herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication, patent, or
patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0027] In the drawings,
[0028] FIG. 1 schematically illustrates a conventional process workflow for monitoring the
concentration of a drug in a subject.
[0029] FIG. 2 schematically illustrates a process workflow provided herein for monitoring the
concentration of a drug (or metabolite of the drug) in a subject.
[0030] FIG. 3 schematically illustrates a system provided herein for monitoring the
concentration of a drug (or metabolite of the drug) in a subject.
[0031] FIG. 4 schematically illustrates a method provided herein for monitoring the
concentration of a drug (or metabolite of the drug) in a subject.
[0032] FIGs. 5-11 show blood concentration profiles of a subject, in accordance with various
systems and methods provided herein.
[0033] FIG. 12A shows "real" patient profiles for serum drug concentration and hemoglobin.
The solid line shows the profiles when a change in behavior occurred at time 150 days. The
dotted line indicates the profiles in the absence of the change in behavior. FIG. 12B shows
                                                  -7-

prediction errors associated with the patient profiles of FIG. 12A. The profile with the solid
circles indicates the prediction error when no change in patient behavior occurred, and the
profiles with the open squares (unchanged sampling frequency) and the open diamonds
(increased sampling frequency) show the prediction errors when a behavior change occurred at
time  =  150 days. The unexpected error increase for these two cases after 150 days indicates the
occurrence of a behavior change.
                                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0034] While various embodiments are shown and described herein, it will be obvious to those
skilled in the art that such embodiments are provided by way of example only. Numerous
variations, changes, and substitutions may occur to those skilled in the art without departing
from the disclosures provided herein.
[0035] The term "point of service system," as used herein, refers to a system that is capable of
providing a service (e.g. testing, monitoring, treatment, diagnosis, guidance, sample collection,
ID verification, medical services, non-medical services, etc.) at or near the site or location of the
subject. In some situations, a point of service system provides a service at a predetermined
location, such as a subject's home or work, grocery stores, drug stores, clinics, schools, etc. A
point of service system may include a computer processor. In some cases, a point of service
system can include a remote system for data analysis and/or storage. Such a remote system can
include a computer processor and memory with machine executable code for implementing
various operations, such as data analysis. A point of service system can include one or more
point of service devices. In some embodiments, a point of service system is a point of care
system. A "point of care system" refers to a system that is capable of providing medical-related
care (e.g. treatment, testing, monitoring, diagnosis, counseling, etc.) at or near the site or location
of the subject (e.g. at a subject's home or work, grocery stores, drug stores, clinics schools, etc.).
[0036] The term "subject," as used herein, refers to an individual that in the past was, currently
is, or in the future may be under the care of, or acted upon by, a point of service system. A
subject can be an individual whose health (e.g., physical condition), or chemical and/or
biological state, is being monitored or that is in need of treatment or monitoring. A subject can
include a patient. In some cases, a subject is a human patient. A subject can be a user of a point
of service device (or system), or computer system associated with the point of service device. In
some cases the terms "subject" and "user" are used interchangeably.
[0037] The term "regimen," as user herein, refers to a systematic plan that may improve and
maintain the health of a subject.
                                                  -8-

[0038] The term "dose," as used herein, refers to a quantity of a drug prescribed, administered or
taken at a particular time or over an interval. In some situations, a dose may include an optimum
therapeutic dose and optimum interval between doses.
[0039] The term "drug," as used herein, refers to a pharmaceutical composition, such as a
chemical or biological substance for treating a subject. A drug includes a pharmacologically
active ingredient. In some situations, a drug may include a pharmacologically inactive
ingredient, such as an excipient. In some situations, the concentration or amount of a drug /
pharmaceutical composition may be determined by measuring the level of the pharmaceutical
composition itself, the level of a metabolite of the pharmaceutical composition, or the level of a
biological marker indicative of the concentration of the pharmaceutical composition in the
subject. The term "pharmacokinetics," as used herein, refers to the study of the mechanisms of
absorption and distribution of an administered drug, the rate at which a drug action begins and
the duration of the effect, the chemical changes of the substance in the body (e.g., by enzymes)
and the effects and routes of excretion of the metabolites of the drug.
[0040] The term "pharmacodynanics," as used herein, refers to the study of the biochemical and
physiological effects of drugs on the body of a subject or on microorganisms or parasites within
or on the body and the mechanisms of drug action and the relationship between drug
concentration and effect.
[0041] The term "communicatively coupled," as used herein, refers to direct or indirect
communication between entities, such as devices, a user and a device, or users. For instance, a
user is communicatively coupled to a device when the user is in communication with another
user or device either directly (i.e., direction communication) or indirectly (i.e., indirect
communication).
[0042] The term "biological marker," as used herein, refers to one or more species or substances
that can be indicative of the concentration of a pharmaceutical composition in a subject. A
biological marker may include, without limitation, drugs, prodrugs, pharmaceutical agents, drug
metabolites, biomarkers such as expressed proteins and cell markers, antibodies, serum proteins,
cholesterol, polysaccharides, nucleic acids, biological analytes, biomarker, gene, protein, lipids
or hormone, or any combination thereof.         Biomarkers can be associated with, for example,
autoimmune diseases, obesity, hypertension, diabetes, neuronal and/or muscular degenerative
diseases, cardiac diseases, endocrine disorders, cancers, infections, and any combinations
thereof. Biomarkers can be present in varying abundance in one or more of body tissues,
including heart, liver, prostate, lung, kidney, bone marrow, blood, skin, bladder, brain, muscles,
nerves, and selected tissues that are affected by various disease, such as different types of cancer
                                                   -9-

(malignant or non-metastatic), autoimmune diseases, inflammatory and/or degenerative diseases.
Other examples of biological markers are provided in U.S. Patent Application No. 12/412,334 to
Michelson et al. ("METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR ASSESSING CLINICAL OUTCOMES"),
which application is entirely incorporated herein by reference.
[0043] The term "physical indicator," as used herein, refers to a physically recognizable or
measurable characteristic of a subject that can be indicative of a health of a subject and/or the
subject's response to therapy (e.g., drug treatment), such as, for example, heart rate, pupil
dilation, breathing rate, perspiration, body temperature, urine concentration, dizziness, and facial
expression.
[0044] Recognized herein are various limitations associated with current methods for monitoring
and regulating the concentration of a drug or a metabolite of the drug in a subject. For example,
the flow of information and acquisition of tissue samples from a patient, subsequent testing in a
laboratory, and review by a doctor and/or pathologist, such as according to the workflow of FIG.
1, may be a time intensive process, requiring in some cases several days or even weeks to
complete. The time scale from acquiring a tissue sample to reporting the concentration of a drug
to a doctor may be on the order of days, weeks or even months. This is problematic when the
time scale of a patient's response to drug regimen is on the order of seconds, minutes, hours, or
days, which may require monitoring and adjusting the concentration of the drug (or metabolite of
the drug) on a time scale that is on the order of seconds or minutes. Based on the approach of
FIG. 1, when the concentration of a drug or a metabolite of the drug in the body of a subject has
been determined, that concentration may not be reflective of the then concentration of the drug
or metabolite of the drug in the body of the subject. Any subsequent adjustment of the dosage of
the drug may be inaccurate, leading a doctor to underestimate or overestimate a new dosage in an
effort to effect a desirable blood concentration. In addition, because the approach of FIG. 1
includes numerous parties, the approach may be costly to a subject (e.g., patient).
[0045] Provided herein are point of care systems and methods for reducing, if not eliminating,
the limitations associated with the method of FIG. 1. The disclosure provides point of care
systems for enabling a subject to monitor the concentration of a drug (or metabolite of the drug)
in the subject's body and modify a dosage regimen of the drug to maintain a desirable or
predetermined concentration of the drug in the subject's body. In some embodiments, the point
of care system automatically monitors the concentration of the drug (or metabolite of the drug)
and regulates (e.g., adjusts) the dose of the drug to maintain a desirable concentration of the drug
in the subject.
                                                 - 10 -

[0046] Point of care systems provided herein can regulate the concentration of a drug or
metabolite of the drug in the body of a subject, and maintain the concentration to within a
fluctuation of no more than about 50%, 40%, 30%, 25%, 20%, 15%, 10%, 5%, 4%, 3%, 2%, 10%,
0.5%, 0.1%, 0.01%, 0.001%, or 0.0001% greater or less than a target concentration. In some
embodiments, a point of care system can measure the concentration of a drug or metabolite
thereof in the subject (e.g., in the blood of the subject) at a rate of one measurement in a time
period of no more than 1 week, 72 hours, 48 hours, 24 hours, 12 hours, 8 hours, 4 hours, 2 hours,
60 minutes, 30 minutes, 25 minutes, 20 minutes, 15 minutes, 10 minutes, 5 minutes, 4 minutes, 3
minutes, 2 minutes, 1 minutes, 30 seconds, 10 seconds, 5 seconds, 1 second, 0.5 seconds, or 0.1
seconds. In some embodiments, a point of care system can measure the concentration of a drug
or metabolite thereof in a subject (e.g., in the blood of the subject), compare the concentration to
one or more set-point concentrations, and adjust the concentration of the drug in view of the
comparison, all within a time period of no more than about 1 week, 72 hours, 48 hours, 24 hours,
12 hours, 8 hours, 4 hours, 2 hours, 60 minutes, 30 minutes, 25 minutes, 20 minutes, 15 minutes,
10 minutes, 5 minutes, 4 minutes, 3 minutes, 2 minutes, 1 minutes, 30 seconds, 10 seconds, 5
seconds, or even 1 second.
[0047] In some embodiments, a point of care system can measure the concentration of one or
more biomarkers (e.g., a plurality of different biomarkers) in a subject (e.g., in the blood of the
subject) at a rate of one measurement in a time period of no more than 1 week, 72 hours, 48
hours, 24 hours, 12 hours, 8 hours, 4 hours, 2 hours, 60 minutes, 30 minutes, 25 minutes, 20
minutes, 15 minutes, 10 minutes, 5 minutes, 4 minutes, 3 minutes, 2 minutes, 1 minutes, 30
seconds, 10 seconds, 5 seconds, 1 second, 0.5 seconds, or 0.1 seconds. In some embodiments, a
point of care system can measure the concentration of one or more biomarkers (e.g., a plurality
of different biomarkers) in a subject (e.g., in the blood of the subject), compare the concentration
to one or more set-point concentrations, and adjust the concentration of a drug in view of the
comparison, all within a time period of no more than about 1 week, 72 hours, 48 hours, 24 hours,
12 hours, 8 hours, 4 hours, 2 hours, 60 minutes, 30 minutes, 25 minutes, 20 minutes, 15 minutes,
10 minutes, 5 minutes, 4 minutes, 3 minutes, 2 minutes, 1 minutes, 30 seconds, 10 seconds, 5
seconds, or even 1 second.
[0048] In some cases, the point of care system can automatically regulate the concentration of
the drug in the subject by adjusting the dose of a drug supply to the subject. For example, if a
drug is administered to the subject with the aid of a fluid flow path regulated by a controller, the
point of care system can instruct the controller to adjust the dose. In other cases, the point of
care system can instruct the subject to adjust the subject's dose manually. For example, the point
                                                  - 11 -

of care system can instruct the subject to change the subject's dose from once a day to twice a
day. The point of care system can provide such instructions to the subject with the aid of a
graphical user interface (GUI) on an electronic display, which may be an electronic display on an
electronic device of the subject (e.g., Smart phone, portable computer).
[0049] In some embodiments, methods and systems for the automated measurement and
optimization of a drug dosage regimen are described. In an implementation, the integration of
communications enabled by a mobile communication device allows for rapid responses to
changing medical situations. In some cases, this requires changing an analytical parameter to be
measured, the schedule for monitoring of one or more parameters, or an immediate change in a
subject's therapy.
[0050] Systems and methods are provided for monitoring a drug regimen or a subject's response
to a therapy and for making adjustments to the subject's therapy in response to the
measurements. In some situations, the methods include using a point of care ("POC") system to
(1) collect a fluid or tissue sample from the subject, (2) perform one or more tests or
measurements on the fluid or tissue sample (e.g., with the aid of an assay, such as a bioassay),
(3) interpret the data, which includes calculating the concentration of a drug or metabolite of the
drug in the subject, (4) distribute information used to monitor the response of the subject to
therapy, and (5) acquire pertinent clinical signs and symptoms as a function of a subject's
biological state (e.g., as represented by a biomarker signature). In some embodiments, the
methods are performed without any intervention from a healthcare provider. That is, the POC
system may perform all of the aforementioned steps. However, in some situations, the POC
system may alert a healthcare provider (e.g., doctor) if the POC system detects an abnormality,
such as an irregular response to a therapy.
Drug monitoring systems
[0051] In some embodiments, systems for monitoring the concentration of a drug or a metabolite
of a drug in a subject are provided. In some embodiments, such systems are point of care
("POC") systems configured to provide monitoring at predetermined intervals or in real-time. In
some situations, the intervals are calculated or regulated, or set by a user. Users include a
subject under treatment or a healthcare provider (e.g., doctor, nurse, technician). In other
situations, the intervals are calculated or otherwise determined by the system, such as with the
aid of the POC system that determines when a measurement is required.
[0052] In some embodiments, a system for monitoring a concentration of a drug in a subject,
includes a point of care module for monitoring a concentration of an active and/or inactive
ingredient of a pharmaceutical composition (or a metabolite of the pharmaceutical composition),
                                                 - 12 -

or a biological marker indicative of the concentration of the pharmaceutical composition in the
subject. A drug-monitoring module is in communication with the point of care module. The
drug-monitoring module is for providing one or more set-point concentrations of an active and/or
inactive ingredient of the pharmaceutical composition (or a metabolite thereof) in the subject. A
medical record module is in communication with the POC module. The medical record module
comprises records of doses in time; the medical record module is for storing and providing a
medical record of the subject to the POC module.
[0053] One or more modules may be provided in separate systems or included in the same
system. For instance, the POC system may include the POC module, the drug monitoring
module and the medical record module. As another example, the POC system may include the
POC module and the drug-monitoring module; the medical record module in such a case is
provided in a separate system in communication with the POC system. For example, the medical
record module may be provided in a medical records system in network communication with the
POC system.
[0054] The drug-monitoring module may provide the one or more set point concentrations with
the aid of a predetermined table, such as a table of doses, which may be formed or updated by
the system. The table may be formed specifically for the subject under treatment, or formed with
the aid of concentration profiles across a predetermined population. In some implementations,
the drug-monitoring module provides the one or more set point concentrations with the aid of a
learning engine. The learning engine is configured to learn from and adapt to a subject's
physiology, such as the subject's metabolism, which may enable the POC system to provide
subject-specific monitoring and regulation of the concentration of a drug in the subject.
[0055] In some cases, a learning engine is provided with desired outcomes of therapy. Starting
from a default initial dose regime, as data accumulates for particular individual patients and/or
groups of patients and the dose regime is changed (initially according to a default algorithm), the
learning engine associates regimes which work best for the subject(s) in order to design new
regimes which may be better. The learning engine learns these patterns or associations by a
collection of methods, including, without limitation, inference, statistical modeling, time series
analysis, survival analysis, clustering, mixed effects modeling, mechanistic modeling, parameter
estimation, uncertainty analysis, optimization, and/or machine learning methods.
[0056] The POC system may include an output module for providing one or more instructions to
the subject. The one or more instructions may be selected from dose instructions and
administration instructions for a pharmaceutical composition (or drug). For instance, the output
                                                 - 13 -

module may instruct the subject to administer a dose of the drug at a certain time and at a
particular dose (e.g., "Take 20 mg of penicillin at 10 AM").
[0057] In some situations, the POC system further includes a server in communication with the
point of care module and the medical records module. The server includes one or more of a
learning engine, protocols and calibration protocols, which may be used to calculate a dose of a
drug for administration to the subject.
[0058] FIG. 2 illustrates a point of care workflow for monitoring the concentration of a drug in a
subject, in accordance with a method and system provided herein. The point of care (POC)
system monitors the concentration of the drug at predetermined intervals, such as on the order of
microseconds, milliseconds, seconds, minutes, hours or days, or in intervals calculated to be
optimal based on the collected data. In some situations, the POC system actively monitors the
concentration of the drug in the subject. In other situations, the POC monitors the concentration
of the drug in the subject upon the subject or another user (e.g., healthcare provider) requesting
such monitoring.
[0059] In some embodiments, the POC system actively monitors the concentration of a drug, a
metabolite of the drug or a marker indicative of the concentration of the drug without any
involvement from a healthcare provider (e.g., physician). That is, the POC system may establish
a direct feedback loop with the subject without any involvement with a healthcare provider. In
some cases, the POC system monitors and regulates the concentration of the drug without the
involvement of any human other than the subject. In such a case, the subject may be involved
only to the extent that the subject is being acted upon by the POC system. In some situations,
however, the POC system contacts a healthcare provider if the POC system detects an
abnormality, such as an irregular response to treatment.
[0060] The POC system of FIG. 2 is in communication with one or more information services,
such as information sources, a laboratory, a doctor (or other care provider), and a medical
records database. Information sources inform the POC system of an acceptable blood
concentration of a particular drug in a subject. This may be determined via clinical trials, or by
the POC system with the aid of a learning engine. Such acceptable blood concentration may be
an average acceptable blood concentration that is a function of the subject's age, sex, or other
physiological traits, such as genetic factors (e.g., the presence of a particular gene predisposes
the subject to metabolize a particular drug at a particular rate or to respond to a particular
concentration of a drug in a certain way). The POC system may be in communication with a
laboratory for retrieving test results, such as the concentration of a drug in a tissue from a biopsy.
The POC system may be communicatively coupled to a doctor (or other healthcare provider),
                                                  - 14 -

which enables the POC system to retrieve the subject's records, for example, or retrieve
historical data as to the administration of a particular drug to the subject.
[0061] The POC system may access the subject's medical history with the aid of a medical
records database. The medical records database may include one more computer systems with
memory and other physical storage devices or systems. The medical records database may
include a data warehouse, in addition to a file repository for storing one or more records of the
subject. The data warehouse may include analysis and trending capabilities for analyzing and
forecasting concentration profiles.
[0062] With continued reference to FIG. 2, the POC system may include one or more computers
for computing and processing concentration data from a fluid or tissue sample from the subject.
Each computer can have one or more processors, and a physical storage medium (e.g., flash
memory, hard disk). For example, the POC system may include a single processor or
multiprocessor system, the latter system for parallel processing. In addition, the POC system
may include a tissue collection module for collecting a blood, fluid or tissue sample from the
patient for measuring the concentration of a drug in the subject.
[0063] In some cases, the POC system is in communication with one or more probes for
collecting concentration data in real-time or at intervals, such as a predetermined interval. For
instance, a probe may measure the concentration of a drug in the blood of a subject at least every
1 minute, or 10 minutes, or 30 minutes, or 1 hour, or 2 hours, or 3 hours, or 4 hours, or 5 hours,
or 6 hours, or 7 hours, or 8 hours, or 9 hours, or 10 hours, or 11 hours, or 12 hours, or 1 day, or at
non-regular intervals. The one or more probes may be in fluid communication with a subject's
blood. For instance, the one or more probes may be configured to circulate through the subject's
body and transmit data to the POC system. In some cases, the one or more probes transmit data
to an electronic relay (e.g., hub or transmitter) that is configured to transmit data to the POC
system. The electronic relay is in proximity to the subject. For example, the electronic relay
may be configured to be attached to the subject's wrist or arm.
[0064] In some embodiments, the POC system of FIG. 2 is configured to monitor the blood
concentration of a particular drug by collecting blood concentration data from a subject being
monitored with the aid of an assay. The assay may be performed by a health care provider, such
as a doctor or laboratory technician. In some cases, the assay is performed with the aid of a
machine or device for collecting a fluid (e.g., blood, saliva) or tissue sample from the subject.
[0065] FIG. 3 schematically illustrates a system 300 for collecting, monitoring and regulating
the concentration of a drug or metabolite of the drug in a subject provided herein. The system of
FIG. 3 includes a point of care ("POC") system 305 in communication with a user 310, a server
                                                  - 15 -

315, a database (DB) 320, a medical records system 325, a disposable assay cartridge supply
330, and a POC instrument supply 335.
[0066] The user 310 may include one or more of a subject (e.g., patient), a medical or healthcare
professional, a government agency, a research worker and a pharmacy. In some instances the
user 310 is a patient under treatment. In such a case, the POC system 305 may be in direct
communication with the user 310 to monitor the concentration of a drug or metabolite of the
drug in the user 310 and make any necessary changes to the dose of the drug. The POC system
305 may then instruct the user 310 to make necessary changes to the dose of the drug (e.g.,
increase the dose, decrease the dose, or terminate the dose), or do nothing, which may be a
desirable course of action if the measured concentration of the drug or metabolite of the drug is
determined by the POC system 305 to be acceptable (e.g., within the targeted concentration
range for the subject).
[0067] With continued reference to FIG. 3, the POC system 305 is in communication with the
server 315 with the aid of a communication system, such as, for example, a wired or wireless
network, Bluetooth, or other mode of communication, such as Universal Serial Bus (USB). The
server 315 includes algorithms and rules for modifying a drug dose in response to a
concentration of a drug or a metabolite of the drug in a subject. The server 315 also includes a
learning engine for adapting a dosage regimen to a subject upon collecting one or a plurality of
concentration profiles, or other physiological parameters (e.g., height, weight, sex), from the
subject. The learning engine may include one or more trending algorithms for forecasting a
subject's response to a change in the dose of a drug for the subject. The server 315 includes
various protocols and calibration parameters that may be used for assays and other approaches
for measuring the concentration of a drug or a metabolite of the drug in a subject. The learning
engine is also configured to use all available information to construct better therapeutic regimes
according to a heuristic model. The learning engine can be configured to balance the risks
associated with potential adverse events associated with the drug against the potential benefits
induced by the drug. The learning engine can be configured to assess uncertainty in model
predictions and to use this information to better make drug dosing changes or recommendations,
such as for the patient, healthcare provider or pharmacy. With the collection of more data, the
learning engine progressively becomes more predictive and less uncertain. Changes, possibly
sudden, in the physiology of the patient, characteristics of the drug, or other changes impacting
the subject's response to the drug, can be detected by the learning engine, thereby inducing the
learning engine to adjust or update its models and recommendations for the subject and also to
collect additional data regarding the drug and the subject's response.
                                                 - 16 -

[0068] The server 315 is in communication with the database 320, which may store information
for use by the learning engine of the server 315 for aiding the POC system 305 to monitor the
concentration of a drug or metabolite of the drug in a subject. The database 320 may store
additional information, such as algorithms or rules for use by the server 315. In some situations,
the database is in communication with a data warehouse for trending and forecasting
concentration profiles or other pertinent metrics associated with a subject's treatment. In some
embodiments, the database 320 may include a static database component comprising static data
related to drug being monitored and/or the population, and a dynamic database component
comprising dynamic data about the population and individual subjects. In addition, the database
320 (or data warehouse in communication with the database 320) may include a computer
modeling component that is configured to model the data in the static database component and
the dynamic database component, which enable modeling drug profiles (including concentrations
profiles) within the population.
[0069] In some embodiments, the database 320 includes features described in U.S. Patent
Application No. 12/906,975 ("INTEGRATED HEALTH DATA CAPTURE AND ANALYSIS
SYSTEM"), which is entirely incorporated herein by reference.
[0070] The medical records system 325 may include one or more public or confidential
information with respect to a subject under treatment. In some instances, the medical records
system 325 includes the subject's insurance information, such as if the subject is qualified under
the subject's insurance policy to be monitored by the system 300. The medical records system
325 also includes the subject's medical history, which may include dose history for a particular
drug, whether the subject has used the drug, and whether the subject has had any adverse
reactions to the particular drug.
[0071] The disposable assay cartridge supply 330 is configured to direct one or more assays to
the user 310, as required, and upon instruction from the server 315. Assays may be directed to
the user 310 by one or more shipping options, such as, for example, just-in-time (JIT) shipping.
For instance, when the POC system 305 determines that measurement of the concentration of a
drug or a metabolite of the drug in a subject is required, the server 315 instructs the disposable
assay cartridge system 330 to direct one or more assays, such as disposable assay cartridges, to
the user 310, which may be the subject under treatment. The user 310 may subsequently use the
assay cartridge to collect and measure the concentration of a drug or a metabolite of the drug in
the user. Alternatively, the disposable assay cartridge supply may direct one or more assay
disposables to the user 310 on a predetermined interval, such as on a daily, weekly, monthly, or
yearly basis, and the user 310 may use an assay, as required, such as upon instruction from the
                                                 - 17 -

POC system 305 (with the aid of algorithms from the server 315, for example) to use the assay to
measure the concentration of the drug (or a metabolite of the drug) in a subject under treatment.
Alternatively, when the POC system 305 determines that measurement of the concentration of a
drug or a metabolite of the drug in a subject is required, the system can execute only the required
assays that are pre-loaded onto the disposable assay cartridges.
[0072] The POC instrument supply 335 is configured to provide a POC instrument to the user
310 upon instruction from the POC system 305. In some situations, the POC system 305
instructs the POC instrument supply to direct a POC instrument to the user 310 upon the server
305 instructing the POC system that a POC instrument is required. The POC instrument supply
335 directs a POC instrument to the user 310 by one or more shipping options, such as, for
example, JIT shipping.
[0073] A POC instrument may include one or more devices for collecting a fluid or tissue
sample from a subject with the aid of the user 310. In some situations the user 310 is the subject
under treatment or monitoring. The POC instrument may subsequently measure the
concentration of a drug or a metabolite of the drug in the subject. The measured concentration is
subsequently directed to the POC system 305, which, with the aid of the server 315, will
determine whether the concentration of the drug (or metabolite of the drug) is acceptable, or
whether the concentration of the drug (or metabolite of the drug) is within or outside one or more
limits or thresholds (see below). The POC system 305 may subsequently do nothing, or take
remedial actions intended to bring the concentration of the drug within predetermined or
desirable limits.
[0074] The server 315 may communicate with the user 310 with the aid of one or more
communications devices 340, such as a telephone ("phone"), Smart phone (e.g., Apple
iPhone@), cellular phone, computer, slate personal computer ("PC"), or a tablet PC (e.g.,
Apple iPad@). In some situations, the communications device 340 includes an interface, such
as a graphical user interface (GUI), for enabling the user 310 to access the server 315 and the
POC system 305. This may enable the user 310 to retrieve dose information or upload
concentration data, for example, or monitor the user's 310 treatment. For example, the
communications device 340 may enable the user 310 to determine whether the user's drug
concentration profile is as desired.
[0075] In some embodiments, the POC instrument includes features described in U.S. Patent No.
7,635,594 ("POiNT-OF-CARE FLUIDIC SYSTEMS AND USES THEREOF") or PCT Patent
Publication No. WO/2009/046227 ("MODULAR POINT-OF-CARE DEVICES, AND USES
THEREOF"), which are entirely incorporate herein by reference. Point of service systems (or
                                                 - 18 -

devices) provided herein can be as described in U.S. Patent Application No. 13/244,946 to
Holmes ("SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR COLLECTING AND TRANSMITTING ASSAY
RESULTS") or U.S. Patent Application No. 13/244,947 to Holmes et al. ("SYSTEMS AND
METHODS FOR MULTI-ANALYSIS"), which applications are entirely incorporated herein by
reference. A point of service system can perform one or more, 2 or more, 3 or more, 4 or more,
5 or more, 10 or more, 20 or more, 30 or more, 40 or more, 50 or more, or 100 or more assays on
a sample. In some cases, a point of service system can perform sample processing, subsequent
data processing and, in some cases, data analysis. A point of service system can perform sample
processing and transmit pre-processed data to a remote system for data processing and, in some
cases, analysis.
[0076] In some situations, a point of service system is configured to process a retrieved sample
from a subject and provide data for subsequent analysis. Such analysis can be performed by the
point of service system and/or a remote system in communication with the point of service
system. In an exemplary implementation, a point of service system can perform centrifugation
on a sample to generate data that is subsequently analyzed by the point of service system and/or
a remote system.
[0077] In some embodiments, a point of service includes a camera that is adapted to capture a
two-dimensional and/or three-dimensional representation of a subject, which can aid in
monitoring the progression of a drug treatment. In an example, the camera can collect data that
is relevant to one or more physical indicators of the subject (e.g., facial expression, pupil
dilation), which can aid in monitoring drug treatment (see below).
[0078] In some examples, a point of service system can include a plurality of modules mounted
on a support structure. An individual module of the plurality of modules can comprise a sample
preparation station, assay station, and/or detection station. In addition, the system can be
configured to perform (a) at least one sample preparation procedure selected from the group
consisting of sample processing, centrifugation, separation, and chemical processing, and (b)
multiple types of assays selected from the group consisting of immunoassay, nucleic acid assay,
receptor-based assay, cytometric assay, colorimetric assay, enzymatic assay, electrophoretic
assay, electrochemical assay, spectroscopic assay, chromatographic assay, microscopic assay,
topographic assay, calorimetric assay, turbidmetric assay, agglutination assay, radioisotope
assay, viscometric assay, coagulation assay, clotting time assay, protein synthesis assay,
histological assay, culture assay, osmolarity assay, and combinations thereof. The multiple types
of assays are performed with the aid of isolated assay units contained within the system.
                                                 - 19 -

[0079] In some situations, a point of service system can access a network with the aid of systems
and methods disclosed in U.S. Patent Application No. 13/244,836 to Balwani ("NETWORK
CONNECTIVITY SYSTEMS AND METHODS"), which application is entirely incorporated
herein by reference.
[0080] Systems provided herein can be used to renew prescriptions, initiate shipping of the drug
or change the prescription to a new drug. In an example, a system monitoring the progression of
the health of a subject in response to a particular drug can be configured to recommend and/or
prescribe a new drug if the system determines that the subject is not responding to a given drug.
[0081] Point of care systems described herein, such as the system 305, can measure the
concentration of a drug or metabolite thereof at a rate of one measurement in a time period of no
more than 1 week, 72 hours, 48 hours, 24 hours, 12 hours, 8 hours, 4 hours, 2 hours, 60 minutes,
30 minutes, 25 minutes, 20 minutes, 15 minutes, 10 minutes, 5 minutes, 4 minutes, 3 minutes, 2
minutes, 1 minutes, 30 seconds, 10 seconds, 5 seconds, 1 second, 0.5 seconds, or 0.1 seconds.
Point of care systems can adjust the dose of a drug at least every 0.1 seconds, 0.5 seconds, 1
second, 10 seconds, 30 seconds, 1 min, 2 min, 3 min, 4 min, 5 min, 6 min, 7 min, 8 min, 9 min,
10 min, 30 min, 1 hour, 2 hours, 3 hours, 4 hours, 5 hours, 6 hours, 7 hours, 8 hours, 9 hours, 10
hours, 11 hours, 12 hours, 1 day, or 2 days.
Methods for monitoring and regulating the concentration of a drug in a subject
[0082] In another embodiment, methods for administering a pharmaceutical composition to a
subject are provided. Methods provided herein may be implemented with the aid of systems
described above.
[0083] In some embodiments, a method for administering a pharmaceutical composition to a
subject (e.g., patient) comprises administering to a subject a first dose of a pharmaceutical
composition at a first time point. The first dose of the pharmaceutical composition (or "drug")
may be applied to the subject with the aid of a healthcare specialist, such as a doctor, nurse, or
other healthcare provider, or a device or apparatus for self-administering the drug. For example,
the subject may self-administer the drug with the aid of a syringe having the drug or the subject
may ingest the drug.
[0084] Next, with the aid of a point of care ("POC") system, a concentration of an active
ingredient of the pharmaceutical composition (or a metabolite thereof) or a biological marker
indicative of the concentration of the pharmaceutical composition in the subject is determined
from a biological sample of the subject, such as a fluid (e.g, blood, saliva) or tissue (e.g., skin)
sample. The blood concentration may be determined by measuring the blood concentration of an
active ingredient of the pharmaceutical composition or a metabolite thereof. In some
                                                 - 20 -

implementations, the concentration of an inactive ingredient of the pharmaceutical composition
is determined. In some situations, information as to the concentration of an inactive ingredient
may be useful in determining the concentration of an active ingredient (or metabolite of the
active ingredient) if the concentration of the active ingredient is related to the concentration of
the inactive ingredient. This is applicable to the situation where an analyte cannot be measured
in the POC system, but another marker may serve as a surrogate for the drug. This method can
minimally provide information about drug assimilation.
[0085] The POC system may be operatively coupled to the blood or tissue of the subject. For
instance, the POC system may include one or more devices for performing an assay to measure
the blood concentration of the drug (or metabolite thereof). Blood concentration may be
measured in real-time. In some situations, the POC system measures the blood concentration
and stores the concentration in a memory or cache of the POC system for subsequent retrieval.
Alternatively, the blood concentration may be measured at predetermined intervals, such as at
least every 0.1 seconds, 1 second, 2 seconds, 3 seconds, 4 seconds, 5 seconds, 10 seconds, 30
seconds, 1 minute, 30 minutes, 1 hour, 2 hours, 3 hours, 4 hours, 5 hours, 6 hours, 7 hours, 8
hours, 9 hours, 10 hours, 11 hours, 12 hours, or 24 hours. In some situations, the blood
concentration is measured at intervals that are calculated or updated by the POC system. For
instance, the POC system may determine the best time to take the next biological sample and the
type of samples (or analytes) that may be most informative for determining a concentration of
the drug or metabolite of the drug in the subject under treatment.
[0086] Next, a second dose of the pharmaceutical composition is administered to the subject at a
second time point. The second dose and/or the interval between the first and second time points
is determined based on the concentration of the pharmaceutical composition in the subject. In
some embodiments, the second dose is administered with the aid of a healthcare provider, such
as a doctor (also "physician" herein) or nurse. In other embodiments, the second dose is
administered by the subject under treatment (i.e., self-administered) or with an automatic drug
delivery system (e.g., insulin pump). In such a case, the POC system may instruct the subject to
self-administer the drug at the second time point at the second dose. In some instances, the
second dose is selected based on various features of the subject, such as the subject's physiology
(e.g., height and/or weight). For example, subjects with faster metabolisms for a particular drug
may require larger doses as compared to subjects with relatively slower metabolisms.
[0087] The POC system may compare a measured blood concentration to one or more set-point
concentrations and subsequently calculate the second dose based on any differences between the
blood concentration and the one or more set-point concentrations. In some situations, the blood
                                                 - 21 -

concentration is compared to a subject-specific maximum drug concentration and a subject
specific minimum drug concentration. The subject-specific maximum and subject-specific
minimum drug concentrations may be determined based on maximum concentrations and
minimum concentrations of a plurality of subject-specific drug concentration profiles (i.e.,
profiles showing blood concentration as a function of time, see FIGs. 5-11).
[0088] The POC system may compare the drug concentration to one or more set-point
concentrations by comparing the drug concentration to an average set point concentration. The
average set-point concentration is a time-averaged set-point concentration. In some situations,
the POC system may calculate and store a time-running average of the set-point concentration.
[0089] In some implementations, set-point concentrations are subject-specific set-point
concentrations. That is, each set-point concentration is calculated by the POC system for a
particular subject as opposed to averaging a set-point concentration across a sample group.
Subject-specific set-point concentrations may permit the POC system to monitor and regulate the
concentration of a drug in a subject on an individual basis, which in some instances is a more
accurate approach for treating a subject.
[0090] In some implementations, a desirable or predetermined dose is estimated by the POC
system before the first dose is administered. In this case, sample measurements are focused on
characterizing various subject-specific features, such as a subject's physiology (e.g., height,
weight, age, medical history, race, food intake, other drugs taken by the subject, gender, etc.),
which may impact drug metabolism and response to the drug. Besides the drug amount, such an
approach may be used to select which drug would be most desirable for a subject's treatment.
[0091] FIG. 4 schematically illustrates a method 400 for monitoring and regulating the
concentration of a drug in a subject, in accordance with a method provided herein. The method
400 may be facilitated by a point of care ("POC") system ("the system"), as described above.
[0092] In a first step 405, the system retrieves blood concentration data of a drug from a remote
measuring apparatus, such as a device for performing an assay on a tissue or fluid sample from a
subject. Next, in a second step 410, the measured blood concentration of the drug is compared
to one or more set point drug concentrations in the blood of a subject. Next, in a third step 415,
the system determines whether the measured blood concentration is below a set point. If the
measured blood concentration is below the set point ("Yes"), in step 420 the system may
increase the dose or decrease the time between drug administrations, which may increase the
effective concentration of the drug (or metabolite of the drug) in the subject. If the measured
blood concentration is not below a set point ("No"), in a fourth step 425 the system determines
whether the measured blood concentration is above the set point (or, alternatively above another
                                                 - 22 -

set point which may be different from the set point of step 415). If the measured blood
concentration is above the set point, in step 430 the system may decrease the dose or increase the
time between drug administrations. Otherwise, if the measured blood concentration is not above
the set point, in a fifth step 435 the system does not change the dose. The drug concentration
may be dynamic (e.g., after a does is given, it takes time before the maximum drug concentration
is reached), so optimal decisions about the next dose may require one or more models that
account for the pharmacokinetics and thereby prevent over- and under-shooting around the target
drug concentration.
[0093] The steps of the method 400 may be repeated to monitor the concentration of the drug at
predetermined or calculated intervals, or as requested by a user, such as a subject under treatment
or a healthcare provider. For instance, the method 400 may be repeated at least every 0.01
seconds, or 0.1 seconds, or 10 seconds, or 30 seconds, or 1 minute, or 2 minutes, or 3 minutes, or
4 minutes, or 5 minutes, or 6 minutes, or 7 minutes, or 8 minutes, or 9 minutes, or 10 minutes, or
30 minutes, or 1 hour, or 2 hours, or 3 hours, or 4 hours, or 5 hours, 6 hours, or 12 hours, or 1
day, or 2 days, or 3 days, or 4 days, or 5 days, or 6 days, or 1 week, or 2 weeks, or 3 weeks, or 1
month, or 2 months, or 3 months, or 4 months, or 5 months, or 0.5 years, or 1 year.
[0094] The system may compare blood concentrations to various set points, which may be static
set-points or dynamic set-points. The set-point may be calculated based on the subject's
physiology (e.g., height, weight, age, medical history, race, food intake, other drugs taken by the
subject, gender, etc.), or provided as an average set-point across a sample population. For
instance, the system may use a set-point that has been found to be desirable to a certain
percentage of a sample population.
[0095] A set-point may remain static (or unchanged) through the course of monitoring the
concentration of a drug in a subject. Alternatively, a set-point may be dynamic and updated at
certain intervals. For instance, upon monitoring the concentration of a drug (or metabolite of the
drug) in a subject a learning engine of the system may monitor and learn of the subject's
response to a drug and modify set-points to account for such a response. This may be preferable
in instances in which a subject's metabolism is above or below a statistically average
metabolism. Dynamic set-point control may thus enable the system to monitor and regulate the
concentration of a drug on a subject-specific basis.
[0096] In some embodiments, one or more set-points are calculated or updated with the aid of
subject-specific pharmacokinetic data and subject-specific pharmacodynamic data (also "PK-PD
data" herein). For example, set-points may be estimated with the aid of approaches described in
Rodriguez-Femandez et al., "A hybrid approach for efficient and robust parameter estimation in
                                                 - 23 -

biochemical pathways," Biosystems (2006), Feb-Mar, 83(2-3), 248-65; Sheela, "An optimized
step-size random search (OSSRS). Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering,"
Volume 19, Issue 1, June 1979, Pages 99-106; Moles et al., "Parameter estimation in
biochemical pathways: a comparison of global optimization methods. Genome Res. 2003
Nov; 13(11):2467-74; and Gutenkunst et al., "Universally sloppy parameter sensitivities in
systems biology models," PLoS Comput Biol. 2007 Oct;3(10):1871-78, which are entirely
incorporated herein by reference.
[0097] In some instances, PK-PD data is used to predict a subject's response to a particular drug.
The system may implement a PK-PD model for a patient and modify or optimize the model at
predetermined intervals or on a continual basis.
[0098] Changes in the dynamics of the underlying physiology of individuals may significantly
alter the response to on-going drug treatment. For example, liver toxicity may cause a reduction
in the drug elimination rate or the introduction of cross-reactivity with administration of another
drug. These changes in physiology may compromise the efficacy and safety of the on-going drug
treatment; in some instances, the identification of such events followed by corrective action is
important in the successful administration of drug therapy. In some embodiments, drug
monitoring may be altered or optimized based on the identification of a change in the behavior of
a subject under treatment. For example, once liver toxicity has been identified, the system may
alter the dose to account for any increases in the concentration of the drug (or a metabolite of the
drug) in a subject under treatment.
[0099] As an alternative to the methods provided herein, systems and methods may monitor a
drug regimen by measuring and monitoring the concentration of a marker that is indicative of the
concentration of the drug in the subject. For example, the concentration of hemoglobin may be
measured to monitor and regulate the concentration of a particular drug that has a direct or
indirect effect on hemoglobin. In some cases, if a given drug induces a change in hemoglobin
levels, such as in the rate of production or loss of hemoglobin, hemoglobin may be used as a
surrogate for measuring a concentration of the drug or a metabolite thereof.
[00100]          In addition to characterizing the pharmacokinetics by measuring the drug or drug
surrogates, analytes may be measured that characterize the pharmacodynamics. Such data can
further help establish the target drug concentration by balancing the drug level with the effect of
the drug (e.g., efficacy and safety). Moreover, the pharmacodynamics provide additional
information about the speed of the response to the drug, which may be critical for making
optimal decisions about adjusting the dose or selecting the right drug for the subject.
                                                  - 24 -

[00101]          Systems and methods provided herein can be used to monitor the progression of a
health condition of a subject, which can enable a particular drug therapy to be tailored to the
subject. In some situations, the drug therapy can be tailored in view of various outcomes. For
example, the subject's response to a drug can be used to select the dose of the drug and/or the
interval at which the drug is administered (or prescribed).
[00102]          In another embodiment, provided herein are methods for using a point of care
system to monitor the treatment and/or progression of a health condition of a subject, and to
adjust the concentration of a drug or metabolite thereof in the subject to tailor the treatment
and/or progression to a given outcome. In some embodiments, a point of care system tailors a
drug therapy (e.g., drug dose) in order to achieve a desired response by measuring i) biomarkers
(e.g., analytes) indicative of the response to assess pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics,
and/or ii) physical indicators that can be indicative of the subject's response to a prescribed or
administered drug. Such an approach advantageously provides subject-specific therapy, as a
particular treatment, including drug therapy and associate outcomes, are specific to a subject. In
some embodiments, a drug therapy including the type of drug prescribed and the dose of the drug
is selected based on the subject's response to the drug.
[00103]          In some embodiments, a subject is treated for a given health condition (e.g.,
sepsis) by selecting a dose of a drug that can be suited to treat the health condition. In some
cases, the initial dose regiment to be given to the subject is selected based on one or more
clinical endpoints (e.g., complete response, non-response, partial response, adverse drug
reaction) and, in some cases, on established population pharmacokinetic-pharmocodynamic
(PK/PD) relationships. Such relationships can help to identify sub-populations of subjects with
different dosage requirements, by utilizing demographic data, clinical findings, clinical
chemistry results, and/or, when appropriate, pharmacogenetic characteristics.
[00104]          The concentration of a drug or metabolite thereof can be monitored by the point
of care system through a posteriori therapeutic drug monitoring, which can include pre
analytical, analytical and post-analytical phases. The point of care system can determine the
active and/or toxic forms of a drug in a biological sample from the subject, which can be
collected at given times (or intervals) (pharmacokinetic monitoring). The point of care system in
some cases can employ the measurement of a biological perimeter as a surrogate or end-point
marker of effect (pharmacodynamic monitoring). For example, the point of care system can
measure the concentration of an endogenous compound, enzymatic activity, or gene expression,
either as a complement to PK monitoring or as the main therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM)
tool. The point of care system can interpret the results, taking into account pre-analytical
                                                  - 25 -

conditions, clinical information and clinical efficacy of a dosage regimen, such as by applying
pharmacokinetic-pharmocodynamic modeling, such as using population PK/PD models and, in
some cases, combined with subject-specific pharmacokinetic forecasting techniques, or
pharmacokinetic data.
[00105]          In some embodiments, a point of care system can be used to monitor a treatment
of a subject in response to a given drug therapy. The point of care system can characterize one
or more clinical outcomes of a subject, such as, for example, complete response (CR), partial
response (PR), stable disease (SR), non-response (NR), adverse drug effect/reaction (ADR), and
drug toxicity. Such characterization can made by first constructing a probability space defined
by a set of discrete clinical outcomes (e.g., SR, NR, CR, PR, ADR and drug toxicity), each of
which is characterized by a statistical distribution of at least one biological marker and/or
physical indicator, and then obtaining subject data corresponding to the at least one biological
marker and/or at least one physical indicator. The system can then calculate the position of the
subject data in the probability space to characterize the probability of a clinical outcome.
[00106]          In some embodiments, systems and methods provided herein may be used for the
development or implementation of adaptive clinical trials, in order to assess the safety or efficacy
of a drug. For example, using systems and methods provided herein, a subject may be
administered a first dose of a drug, the subject's response to the drug may be monitored and
analyzed, and based on subject's response to the first dose of the drug, a determination regarding
a second dose of the drug for the subject may be made (e.g. whether to administer a second dose
at all, an appropriate amount of a second dose, timing for a second dose, etc.). Implementation
of adaptive clinical trials using systems and methods provided herein may provide numerous
advantages during clinical trials for a drug, including, without limitation, improved subject safety
(by closely regulating the concentration of a drug in a subject so as to avoid dangerous levels of
a drug), better PK and PD data regarding the drug and subject response to the drug, greater
subject pool for analysis, and improved data regarding the efficacy of a drug. These advantages
may further result in, for example, cheaper and faster clinical trials.
[001071          Examples of systems and methods for assessing clinical outcomes are described
in U.S. Patent Application No. 12/412,334 to Michelson et al. ("METHODS AND SYSTEMS
FOR ASSESSING CLINICAL OUTCOMES") ("Michelson"), which application is entirely
incorporated herein by reference. The methods of Michelson can be used with systems and
methods provided herein to treat a subject receiving a given drug therapy, such as to monitor the
progression of a given drug therapy within a probability space having a plurality of discrete
clinical outcomes, which can include calculating a trajectory (x(t)) of the progression of the
                                                  - 26 -

therapy within the probability space, and in some cases calculating a velocity (dx(t)/dt) and/or
acceleration (d x(t)/dt 2 ) from the trajectory. For instance, the rate at which the subject is
progressing towards a given outcome (e.g., ADR) in response to a particular drug therapy can be
monitored, which can aid the point of care system to make any changes to the therapy that may
be necessary to tailor the response to a different outcome (e.g., CR).
                                               EXAMPLES
Example 1
[00108]          FIG. 5 shows a concentration profile for the time course of drug concentration in
the blood of a subject when a drug is taken at regular intervals of 2 time units (e.g., hours, days,
months). The time and concentration units are arbitrary and provided for illustrative purposes
only. The saw tooth pattern is the result of the opposing processes of absorption and distribution
of drug into the blood and the elimination and metabolic conversion of the drug to inactive
forms. Also shown are the desired upper and lower drug concentrations (or set-points) for
therapeutic effectiveness without toxicity.
[00109]           In this example, the drug dosages are selected conservatively and a therapeutic
effect is obtained for about half the time. For some time, the average level of drug increases
with each dose of drug. After many doses however, the average drug concentration becomes
constant.
Example 2
[00110]          FIG. 6 shows a time course of drug concentration in the blood of a subject. Also
shown is a target high set-point and a target low set-point. In the illustrated example,
concentration profile maxima are above the target high set-point, indicating that the drug dose is
too high, which results in toxicity to the patient throughout the course of treatment. Systems
provided herein are used to bring the concentration profile minima and maximum between the
target high set point and target low set point.
Example 3
[00111]          FIG. 7 shows a concentration profile under conditions similar to that of FIG. 6,
with the exception that a sub-optimal dose of drug is used, resulting in the therapeutic level not
being reached for much of the course of treatment.
Example 4
[00112]          FIG. 8 shows a concentration profile for a case where therapy is being actively
managed with the aid of systems and methods described above. After two doses, the drug
concentration exceeds the maximum safe level, but by lowering the dosage after four doses (time
 ~ 8.0), the drug concentration is maintained in the target range where it did not cause appreciable
                                                  - 27 -

toxicity and is effective for treatment. The use of systems and methods provided herein to make
measurements during therapy enables optimal dosage schemes to be implemented.
Example 5
[001131         In the illustrated example of FIG. 9, on or after the fifth dose, the elimination rate
of the subject drug decreases, potentially due to liver toxicity. Compared to cases in which the
drug dose is optimal up to five doses (such as at time 10.0 to 20.0 of FIG. 8), a toxic
concentration of the drug is observed. The point of care ("POC") system decreases the dose of
the drug to bring the measured drug concentration below the target high set point but above the
target low set point.
Example 6
[00114]         In the illustrated example of FIG. 10, on or after the fifth dose, the administration
of another drug induces the production of a higher level of a cytochrome P450 responsible for
removal of the first drug, which causes the concentration of the drug to become clinically
ineffective. The POC system if used would increase the dose of the drug to bring the drug
concentration above the target low set-point and below the target high set-point.
Example 7
[00115]         Drug X is used once a month to control the concentration of hemoglobin. In this
example, the starting dose is a default value of 0.1 units. Plasma drug concentration and
hemoglobin level are sampled by the POC device and analyte data is used in the development of
a pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic (PK-PD) model. Utilizing the PK-PD model, a dose
correction is made at time t = 300 days to achieve a hemoglobin target set-point of 11 g/dL. For
comparison, sampling is performed using two alternate sampling designs: (1) fixed sampling
design and (2) optimal sampling design (as described herein). In this example, samples of the
drug concentration (PK) and hemoglobin (PD) are constrained to occur at the same time (but in
the general case can be sampled at different times). The optimal sampling scheme permits
management of the drug therapy with fewer data than the fixed scheme, reducing cost and
inconvenience to the subject.
[00116]         Real patient data is obtained by simulating a PK-PD model with the "true" patient
parameters. To introduce (simulate) measurement noise, random white noise is added to the
"true" simulated data. This approach is geared at least in part to investigating the underlying
patient physiologies of interest, as represented by the PK-PD model, by sampling key (or select)
biological and molecular analytes. The data that is acquired is then used to infer, or estimate, the
model for each patient.
                                                 -28-

[001171         FIG. 11 shows the sampling design for serum drug concentration (mg/L) and
hemoglobin (Hgb) (g/dL). The sampling times for the optimal design are determined by the D
optimality criterion to maximize information for the development of a PK-PD model. The fixed
sampling design includes twenty-one sampling points and the optimal sampling design includes
ten sampling points. The solid black lines represent the actual drug concentration and Hgb levels
in a subject over time, while the solid circles represent the simulated assay values that are
obtained via a POC assay, subject to noise.
Example 8
[00118]         The concentration of hemoglobin in an individual undergoing treatment with drug
X is monitored once a month. The dose is fixed to 0.1 units. A PK-PD model is continually
updated utilizing all accumulated analyte data of serum drug concentration and hemoglobin
concentration obtained by the POC system. The PK-PD model is used to predict the hemoglobin
concentration expected at the next sampling time. The prediction error is calculated with each
new sample analyzed.
[00119]         An unexpected increase in the prediction error indicates that a change in patient
behavior or physiology has likely occurred (e.g. liver toxicity). The predictions of the PK-PD
model are used to detect changes in patient behavior/physiology. Further, using the POC system
the sampling frequency is modified to update the PK-PD model to account for the change. For
comparison, the PK-PD model is corrected with two sampling designs after the detected change
in patient behavior/physiology: (1) a fixed sampling design, as before, and (2) increasing the
sampling frequency to once every 4 days over a period of a month followed by the original
(fixed) sampling design.
[00120]         Real patient data is obtained by simulating the PK-PD model with the "true"
parameters. To introduce measurement noise, random white noise is added on the "true"
simulated data. A change in the "real patient" behavior is introduced by implementing a four
fold increase in the clearance of the drug at 150 days. The serum drug concentration and
hemoglobin response of the patient, with and without the change in behavior, in response to the
administration of drug X, is shown in FIG. 12A.
[00121]         FIG. 12B shows the prediction errors for the two sampling designs evaluated
when the change in patient behavior occurs. For both sampling designs, the prediction error
shows an unexpected sudden increase indicating the occurrence of a behavior change in the
subject. The PK-PD model in both cases is corrected using new analyte data after the change in
behavior. With the original sampling design, the prediction error is reduced with time; however,
the rate of reduction is slow compared to when the POC assay system is flexibly used in the
                                                  - 29 -

second design to increase the sampling frequency for a period of a month. With this design, the
prediction errors are reduced to near optimal performance (errors equivalent to the scenario when
no change occurs) within 10 days. The alternate design captures the analyte data at a faster rate
and also captures the information of the change in dynamic behavior after the behavior
modification has occurred. This advantageously provides analyte data with maximum
information content for optimal parameter estimation with the PK-PD model. Such a rapid
detection of the change in the subject behavior/physiology, enhanced data sampling, and a
learning engine to adjust the dose given the new data, enhances the safety and efficacy for
treating the subject.
[00122]         While the above is a complete description of the preferred embodiments of the
present invention, it is possible to use various alternatives, modifications and equivalents.
Therefore, the scope of the present invention should be determined not with reference to the
above description but should, instead, be determined with reference to the appended claims,
along with their full scope of equivalents. Any feature, whether preferred or not, may be
combined with any other feature, whether preferred or not. The appended claims are not to be
interpreted as including means-plus-function limitations, unless such a limitation is explicitly
recited in a given claim using the phrase "means for." It should be understood that as used in the
description herein and throughout the claims that follow, the meaning of "a," "an," and "the"
includes plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Also, as used in the
description herein and throughout the claims that follow, the meaning of "in" includes "in" and
"on" unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Also, as used in the description herein and
throughout the claims follow, terms of "include" and "contain" are open ended and do not
exclude additional, unrecited elements or method steps. Finally, as used in the description herein
and throughout the claims that follow, the meanings of "and" and "or" include both the
conjunctive and disjunctive and may be used interchangeably unless the context expressly
dictates otherwise. Thus, in contexts where the terms "and" or "or" are used, usage of such
conjunctions do not exclude an "and/or" meaning unless the context expressly dictates otherwise.
                                                 - 30  -

Claims:
1.     A method for administering a pharmaceutical composition to a subject, comprising:
       (a) administering to a subject a first dose of a pharmaceutical composition at a first time
point;
       (b) obtaining a biological sample of said subject with the aid of a point of care system;
       (c) measuring, with the aid of the point of care system and the use of said biological
sample, the concentration of an active ingredient of said pharmaceutical composition or a
metabolite thereof, or a biological marker indicative of the concentration of said pharmaceutical
composition present in said subject;
       (d) calculating, with the aid of a computer processor, a dosage or time interval between
dosages based on said concentration measured in step (c); and
       (e) administering to said subject a second dose of said pharmaceutical composition at a
second time point according to said calculated dosage or time interval of step (d).
2.     The method of Claim 1, wherein step (a) is carried out with the aid of the point of care
system and without the involvement of any human other than the subject.
3.     The method of Claim 1, wherein step (c) is carried out with the aid of the point of care
system and without the involvement of any human other than the subject.
4.     The method of Claim 1, wherein step (e) is carried out with the aid of the point of care
system and without the involvement of any human other than the subject.
5.     A method for administering a pharmaceutical composition to a subject, comprising:
       administering to a subject a second dose of said pharmaceutical composition at a third
time point, wherein said second dose and said third time point is determined by:
                (a) administering to said subject a first dose of a pharmaceutical composition at a
       first time point;
                (b) obtaining a biological sample of said subject with the aid of a point of care
       system;
                (c) measuring, with the aid of the point of care system and the biological sample,
       the concentration of an active ingredient of said pharmaceutical composition or a
       metabolite thereof, or a biological marker indicative of the concentration of said
       pharmaceutical composition present in said subject at a second time point; and
                (d) calculating, with the aid of a computer processor, a desired dosage or time
       interval between dosages based on said concentration measured in step (c), thereby
       determining said second dose or the interval between said second and third time points.
                                                 -31 -

6.       The method of Claim 1 or 5, further comprising:
        comparing said concentration to one or more set-point concentrations; and
        calculating the second dose based on the difference between the concentration measured
in step (c) and the one or more set-point concentrations.
7.       The method of Claim 6, wherein comparing the concentration measured in step (c) to one
or more set-point concentrations comprises comparing the concentration measured in step (c) to
a subject-specific maximum drug concentration and a subject-specific minimum drug
concentration.
8.       The method of Claim 7, wherein the subject-specific maximum and subject-specific
minimum drug concentrations are determined based on maximum concentrations and minimum
concentrations of a plurality of subject-specific drug concentration profiles.
9.       The method of Claim 6, wherein comparing the drug concentration measured in step (c)
to one or more set-point concentrations comprises comparing the drug concentration to an
average set point concentration.
10.      The method of Claim 9, wherein the average set-point concentration is a time-averaged
set-point concentration.
11.      The method of Claim 6, wherein the one or more set-point concentrations are subject
specific set-point concentrations.
12.      The method of Claim 1 or 5, wherein step (c) comprises measuring the blood
concentration of said active ingredient of said pharmaceutical composition or a metabolite
thereof.
13.      The method of Claim 12, wherein the blood concentration is measured in real-time.
14.      The method of Claim 13, wherein the point of care system is operatively coupled to the
blood or tissue of the subject.
15.      The method of Claim 1 or 5, further comprising monitoring, with the aid of a computer
processor, the progression of a health condition of said subject in response to administering said
first dose or said second dose.
16.      The method of Claim 15, further comprising adjusting said first dose, said second dose or
said interval based on said monitoring.
17.     A method for monitoring the concentration of a pharmaceutical composition in a subject,
comprising:
        (a) prescribing to a subject a first dose of a pharmaceutical composition at a first time;
        (b) obtaining a biological sample of said subject with the aid of a point of care system;
                                                  - 32 -

         (c) measuring, with the aid of the point of care system and the biological sample, the
concentration of an active ingredient of said pharmaceutical composition or a metabolite thereof,
or a biological marker indicative of the concentration of said pharmaceutical composition present
in said subject; and
         (d) calculating, with the aid of a computer processor, a desired dosage or time interval
between dosages based on said concentration measured in step (c); and
         (e) prescribing to the subject a second dose of the pharmaceutical composition at a
second time according to said calculated desired dosage or time interval of step (d).
18.      The method of Claim 17, further comprising:
         comparing, with the aid of a processor, said measured concentration of step (c) to one or
more set-point concentrations; and
         calculating the second dose based on the difference between the measured concentration
and the one or more set-point concentrations.
19.      The method of Claim 18, wherein comparing the concentration measured in step (c) to
the one or more set-point concentrations comprises comparing the concentration measured in
step (c) to a subject-specific maximum concentration and a subject-specific minimum
concentration.
20.      The method of Claim 19, wherein the subject-specific maximum and subject-specific
minimum blood concentrations are determined based on maximum concentrations and minimum
concentrations of a plurality of subject-specific blood concentration profiles.
21.      The method of Claim 18, wherein comparing said concentration measured in step (c) to
the one or more set-point concentrations comprises comparing the concentration measured in
step (c) to an average set point concentration.
22.      The method of Claim 21, wherein the average set-point concentration is a time-averaged
set-point concentration.
23.      The method of Claim 18, wherein the one or more set-point concentrations are subject
specific set-point concentrations.
24.      The method of Claim 17, wherein said concentration is measured in real-time
25.      The method of Claim 17, wherein said concentration is measured at predetermined
intervals.
26.      The method of Claim 17, wherein the point of care system is operatively coupled to the
blood or tissue of the subject.
                                                 - 33 -

27.      The method of Claim 17, further comprising monitoring, with the aid of a computer
processor, the progression of a health condition of said subject in response to prescribing said
first dose or said second dose.
28.      The method of Claim 27, further comprising determining said first dose, said second dose
or said predetermined interval based on said monitoring.
29.      The method of Claim 1, 5 or 17, wherein said biological sample is blood.
30.      A system for monitoring a concentration of a drug in a subject, comprising:
         a point of care module for monitoring, with the aid of a computer processor, a
concentration of an active ingredient of a pharmaceutical composition or a metabolite thereof, or
a biological marker indicative of the concentration of said pharmaceutical composition in said
subject:
         a drug monitoring module in communication with the point of care module, the drug
monitoring module for providing one or more set point concentrations of an active ingredient of
a pharmaceutical composition or a metabolite thereof in the subject; and
         a medical record module comprising records of doses in time, the medical record module
for storing and providing a medical record of the subject.
31.      The system of Claim 30, wherein the drug monitoring module provides the one or more
set point concentrations with the aid of a predetermined table.
32.      The system of Claim 30, wherein the drug monitoring module provides the one or more
set point concentrations with the aid of a learning engine.
33.      The system of Claim 30, further comprising an output module for providing one or more
instructions to the subject.
34.      The system of Claim 33, wherein the one or more instructions are selected from dose
instructions and administration instructions for a pharmaceutical composition.
35.      The system of Claim 30, further comprising a server in communication with the point of
care module and the medical records module.
36.      The system of Claim 35, wherein the server includes one or more of a learning engine,
protocols and calibration protocols.
37.      A method for recommending a dose of a pharmaceutical composition to a subject,
comprising:
         administering to the subject at a first point in time a dose of the pharmaceutical
composition;
         using a point of care system to determine concentration data for an active ingredient of
said pharmaceutical composition, a metabolite of an active ingredient of said pharmaceutical
                                                   - 34 -

composition, or a biological marker indicative of the concentration of said pharmaceutical
composition in said subject;
         comparing, by a computing device, a) the concentration data and b) at least one set point
value, wherein the set point value is stored in computer memory, retrieved from a data structure,
or calculated by the computing device;
         in response to comparing the concentration data and the at least one set point value,
directing the computing device to determine if at least one change in a dosing regimen for the
pharmaceutical composition is desired in order to have the concentration of said pharmaceutical
composition be in a desired range, said computing device utilizing a predictive model based at
least in part on pharmacokinetic data of the pharmaceutical composition; and
         generating a recommendation for at least a next dose of said pharmaceutical composition,
wherein the recommendation sets forth at least one of: a) an amount of the next dose or b) a time
for applying the next dose.
38.      The method of Claim 37 further comprising directing a processor to modify a patient
history data structure to store concentration data related to the pharmaceutical composition
administered at the first point in time, wherein the patient history data structure is configured to
store longitudinal data regarding concentration from other points in time.
                                      Theranos, Inc.
               Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                SPRUSON & FERGUSON
                                                 - 35 -

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/12

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/12

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/12

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/12

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/12

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/12

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           7/12

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           8/12

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           9/12

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           10/12

<removed-date>
                                 11/12
                          Fixed Sampling Scheme
<removed-apn>
              Hgb                                    Sampled data
                                                     Sample time
                                                     Patient Response
              Drug conc
                                  Time (days)
                          Optimal Sampling Scheme
              Hgb                                   Sampled data
                                                    Sample time
                                                    Patient Response
              Drug conc
                                  Time (days)
                                  FIG. 11

<removed-date>
                                                                                       12/12
                                   0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0
                                                                                                     12 14
              Drug conc. (units)
<removed-apn>
                                                                                         Hb (g/dL)   10
                                                                                                     8
                                                         0 50 100    200      300                            0 50 100    200      300
                                                                Time(days)
                                                                Time (days)                                         Time (days)
                                                                                     FIG. 12A
                                                                                    Time (days)
                                                                                     FIG. 12B

