       HITCH POSITION ENCODER WITH REFERENCE INDICATOR FOR
                         AGRICULTURAL WORK VEHICLE
                                     ABSTRACT
        An output control system of an agricultural work vehicle includes a controller,
a reference    indicator communicatively coupled to the controller, and a dial
communicatively coupled to the controller. The controller is configured to control
power output through an output value range between a minimum output value and a
maximum output value based at least in part on a manual input signal, to determine a
current setting of the power output, and to adjust the power output from the current
setting upon receipt of the manual input signal. The reference indicator is configured
to indicate the current setting. Adjustment of an orientation of the dial from an initial
position generates the manual input signal.

           2 /5
                    (.0
                   LC))
              CY 0
     Co~
         Co~
0000

       HITCH POSITION ENCODER WITH REFERENCE INDICATOR FOR
                          AGRICULTURAL WORK VEHICLE
BACKGROUND
[0001]    The invention relates generally to agricultural equipment,         and more
specifically, to a hitch position encoder with reference indicator.
[0002]    An agricultural work vehicle may be used for a variety of agricultural
purposes, such as to prepare a field for planting, maintaining a field, harvesting, and
so forth. Additionally, an agricultural work vehicle may be coupled to a variety of
agricultural implements, such as cutters, mowers, loaders, blades, backhoes, tillers,
planters, snow blowers, rippers, or other implements. The agricultural implements
may be coupled to a hitch, such as a three point hitch, of the work vehicle. User
inputs are used to control the output of the work vehicle and the implements, such as
the ground speed of the work vehicle, load on the work vehicle from the implement,
and position of the implement. For example, a dial may be manually rotated to adjust
a current setting of an output. The dial has a limited range of motion that corresponds
to a range of output values. Some adjustments to the output may be automated during
operation of the work vehicle so that the output is adjusted without manual
manipulation of the dial.      Unfortunately, during automated operation the dial may
become unsynchronized so that the dial no longer corresponds to the current setting of
the output. In addition, synchronization of the dial with the current setting may be
confusing, time consuming, or both.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION
[0003]    Certain embodiments commensurate in scope with the originally claimed
invention are summarized below. These embodiments are not intended to limit the
scope of the claimed invention, but rather these embodiments are intended only to
provide a brief summary of possible forms of the invention. Indeed, the invention
may encompass a variety of forms that may be similar to or different from the
embodiments set forth below.
                                             1

[0004]     In one embodiment, an output control system of an agricultural work
vehicle, comprising:
           a controller configured to control power output through an output value
range between a minimum output value and a maximum output value based at
least in part on a manual       input signal, to determine      a current setting of the
power output, and to adjust the power output from the current setting upon
receipt of the manual input signal;
           a reference     indicator   communicatively       coupled   to   the   controller
and configured to indicate the current setting; and
           a dial communicatively coupled to the controller, wherein adjustment
of an orientation of the dial from an initial position generates the manual input
signal.
[0005]     In another embodiment, an agricultural           implement     control   system,
comprising:
          a dial configured to generate a manual input signal based at least in
  part on manual adjustment ofthe dial from an initial orientation;
          a reference    indicator    configured   to   indicate   a current      position
  of an agricultural implement within a range ofmotion; and
          a controller communicatively       coupled to the dial and to the reference
  indicator and configured to adjust the current position of the agricultural
  implement through the range          of    motion,   wherein     the    controller     is
  configurable in a plurality of modes,
  comprising:
                a manual mode        configured to control the adjustment of the
          agricultural implement from the current position within the range of
         motion based at least in part on the manual input signal; and
                  an automatic     mode     configured   to   control   the   adjustment
          of   the agricultural implement based at least in part on a set of input
         parameters;
                                             2

                  wherein the controller is configured to transition from the
           automatic mode to the manual mode in response to the receipt of the
           manual input signal without synchronizing an orientation of the dial
           with the current position.
[0006]      In another embodiment, an agricultural work vehicle, comprising:
           an adjustable hitch configured to couple to an agricultural implement;
a controller communicatively coupled to the adjustable hitch, wherein the controller
is configured to control the adjustable hitch through a range of motion based at
least in part on a manual input signal, to determine a current position of the
adjustable hitch within the range of motion, and to instruct the adjustable hitch
to move from the current position upon receipt ofthe manual input signal;
           a reference     indicator  communicatively      coupled   to  the   controller
  and configured to indicate the current position ofthe adjustable hitch; and
           a dial communicatively       coupled to the controller,      wherein manual
  rotation of the dial from an initial position generates the manual input signal.
[0007]    In another embodiment, an output control system of an agricultural work
vehicle includes a controller, a reference indicator communicatively coupled to the
controller, and a dial communicatively coupled to the controller. The controller is
configured to control power output through an output value range between a
minimum output value and a maximum output value based at least in part on a manual
input signal, to determine a current setting of the power output, and to adjust the
power output from the current setting upon receipt of the manual input signal. The
reference indicator is configured to indicate the current setting. Adjustment of an
orientation of the dial from an initial position generates the manual input signal.
[0008]    In another embodiment, an agricultural implement control system includes a
dial configured to generate a manual input signal based at least in part on manual
adjustment of the dial from an initial orientation, a reference indicator configured to
indicate a current position of an agricultural implement within a range of motion, and
a controller communicatively coupled to the dial and to the reference indicator. The
                                              3

controller is configured to adjust the current position of the agricultural implement
through the range of motion. The controller is configurable in a plurality of modes,
including a manual mode and an automatic mode. The manual mode is configured to
control the adjustment of the agricultural implement from the current position within
the range of motion based at least in part on the manual input signal. The automatic
mode is configured to control the adjustment of the agricultural implement based at
least in part on a set of input parameters. The controller is configured to transition
from the automatic mode to the manual mode in response to the receipt of the manual
input signal without synchronizing an orientation of the dial with the current position.
[0009]     In a further embodiment, an agricultural work vehicle includes an
adjustable hitch configured to couple to an agricultural implement, a controller
communicatively        coupled   to  the  adjustable   hitch,   a   reference   indicator
communicatively coupled to the controller, and a dial communicatively coupled to the
controller. The controller is configured to control the adjustable hitch through a range
of motion based at least in part on a manual input signal, to determine a current
position of the adjustable hitch within the range of motion, and to instruct the
adjustable hitch to move from the current position upon receipt of the manual input
signal. The reference indicator is configured to indicate the current position of the
adjustable hitch. Manual rotation of the dial from an initial position generates the
manual input signal.
[0010]       In still a further embodiment, an output control system of an agricultural
work vehicle, comprising:
        a controller configured to control power output through an output value range
between a minimum output value and a maximum output value based at least in part
on a manual input signal, to determine a current setting of the power output, and to
adjust the power output from the current setting upon receipt of the manual input
signal, wherein the controller is configured to control the power output while the
manual input signal is valid and to disregard the manual input signal while the manual
input signal is invalid, the manual input signal is valid while the manual input signal
is configured to adjust the power output within the output value range, and the manual
                                            4

input signal is invalid while the manual input signal is configured to adjust the power
output outside the output value range;
        a reference     indicator communicatively      coupled to    the controller and
configured to indicate the current setting; and
        a dial communicatively coupled to the controller, wherein adjustment of an
orientation of the dial from an initial position generates the manual input signal.
[0011]       In yet another embodiment, an agricultural implement control system,
comprising:
        a dial configured to generate a manual input signal based at least in part on
manual adjustment of the dial from an initial orientation;
        a reference    indicator configured to indicate a current position of an
agricultural implement within a range of motion; and
        a controller communicatively coupled to the dial and to the reference indicator
and configured to adjust the current position of the agricultural implement through the
range of motion, wherein the controller is configurable in a plurality of modes,
comprising:
                a manual mode configured to control the adjustment of the agricultural
        implement from the current position within the range of motion based at least
        in part on the manual input signal; and
                an automatic mode configured to control the adjustment of the
        agricultural implement based at least in part on a set of input parameters;
                wherein the controller is configured to transition from the automatic
        mode to the manual mode in response to the receipt of the manual input signal
        without synchronizing an orientation of the dial with the current position.
[0012]       In yet another embodiment, an agricultural work vehicle, comprising:
        an adjustable hitch configured to couple to an agricultural implement;
        a controller communicatively coupled to the adjustable hitch, wherein the
controller is configured to control the adjustable hitch through a range of motion
based at least in part on a manual input signal, to determine a current position of the
adjustable hitch within the range of motion, and to instruct the adjustable hitch to
move from the current position upon receipt of the manual input signal, wherein the
                                              5

controller is configured to control the adjustable hitch while the manual input signal is
valid and to disregard the manual input signal while the manual input signal is invalid,
the manual input signal is valid while the manual input signal is configured to adjust
the adjustable hitch within the range of motion, and the manual input signal is invalid
while the manual input signal is configured to adjust the adjustable hitch outside the
range of motion;
        a reference     indicator communicatively      coupled to the controller and
configured to indicate the current position of the adjustable hitch; and
        a dial communicatively coupled to the controller, wherein manual rotation of
the dial from an initial position generates the manual input signal.
DRAWINGS
[0013]    These and other features, aspects, and advantages of the present invention
will become better understood when the following detailed description is read with
reference to the accompanying drawings in which like characters represent like parts
throughout the drawings, wherein:
[0014]    FIG. 1 is a perspective view of an embodiment of an agricultural work
vehicle with an adjustable hitch;
[0015]    FIG. 2 is a schematic diagram of an embodiment of an output control system
for the agricultural work vehicle;
[0016]    FIG. 3 is a front view of an embodiment of a dial and reference indicator that
may be employed within the output control system of FIG. 2;
[0017]    FIG. 4 is a perspective view of an embodiment of an alternative dial and
reference indicator that may be employed within the output control system of FIG.2;
and
[0018]    FIG. 5 is a front view of an embodiment of a dial and an electronic display
with a reference indicator that may be employed within the output control system of
FIG. 2.
                                             6

DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0019]      One or more specific embodiments of the present invention will be
described below. In an effort to provide a concise description of these embodiments,
all features of an actual implementation may not be described in the specification. It
should be appreciated that in the development of any such actual implementation, as
in any engineering or design project, numerous implementation-specific decisions
must be made to achieve the developers' specific goals, such as compliance with
system-related    and business-related      constraints, which may      vary  from one
implementation to another.         Moreover, it should be appreciated that such a
development effort might be complex and time consuming, but would nevertheless be
a routine undertaking of design, fabrication, and manufacture for those of ordinary
skill having the benefit of this disclosure.
[0020]    When introducing elements of various embodiments of the present invention,
the articles "a," "an," "the," and "said" are intended to mean that there are one or
more of the elements.        The terms "comprising," "including," and "having" are
intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements other than the
listed elements.
[0021]    The output control system described herein improves the ease and
convenience of manual control of an agricultural work vehicle and/or agricultural
implement. Various user inputs are used to control the operation of the agricultural
work vehicle, such as ground speed, output to a power take-off (PTO), steering, and
so forth. Additionally, user inputs to various implements are used to control the
operation of the implements, including but not limited to hitch position relative to the
work vehicle, header height relative to a field, orientation of the implement, draft, and
so forth. Presently contemplated embodiments include a dial to provide user input for
controlling the operation of an output of the work vehicle and/or the implement, such
as adjusting the current setting of the output. Rotation of the dial generates a manual
input signal that corresponds to the direction and/or speed of rotation.        In some
embodiments, the dial does not have any stops or detents, and the dial may be rotated
                                              7

substantially infinitely about a dial axis.   That is, an orientation of the dial is not
directly synchronized with the current setting of the respective output. Instead, the
manual input signal, which is generated by rotation of the dial, adjusts the output from
the current setting to a higher or lower setting depending on the direction of rotation.
A reference indicator for the dial indicates the current setting of the respective output.
The output control system enables the operator to manipulate the dial to adjust the
respective output without synchronizing the dial to the current setting of the output.
[0022]    Turning now to the drawings, FIG. 1 is a perspective view of an agricultural
work vehicle 10 (e.g., tractor, off-road vehicle, work vehicle) with an output control
system. The illustrated vehicle 10 has a body 12 that houses an engine, transmission,
cooling system, and power train. The agricultural work vehicle 10 has a cabin 14
where an operator may sit or stand to operate the vehicle 10. The vehicle 10 has two
front wheels 16 and two rear wheels 18 that rotate to move the vehicle 10 along the
ground 20 at a ground speed. The wheels 18 are coupled to an axle 22 (e.g., fixed or
suspended) that supports the wheels 18, and facilitates wheel rotation.
[0023]    As discussed in detail below, the vehicle 10 may include a hitch 24 (e.g.,
three-point adjustable hitch) configured to couple an agricultural implement to the
vehicle 10. Agricultural implements include, but are not limited to, a cutter, a mower,
a loader, a blade, a backhoe, a cultivator, a plough, bale forks, a planter, a snow
blower, or a ripper.      The hitch 24 may be adjusted to change a height and/or
orientation of the agricultural implement relative to the ground 20. A power take-off
(PTO) shaft 26 extends from the vehicle 10 to transfer power from the vehicle 10 to
the coupled agricultural implement. One or more hydraulic lines 28 may connect to
hydraulic remotes of the coupled agricultural implement to transfer power.            The
operator controls operation of the vehicle 10 and agricultural implement via a console
in the cabin 14. Certain outputs of the work vehicle 10 and agricultural implement are
controlled with an output control system that may be adjusted through the console.
For example, the operator may control the ground speed of the vehicle 10, the position
of the hitch 24, the power output through the PTO 26, and the power output through
the hydraulic lines 28 through the console. As discussed below, the output control
system includes one or more dials to control respective outputs of the vehicle 10
                                            8

and/or agricultural implement (e.g., via manual input in a manual mode). The output
control system may also enable the operator to automate some outputs (e.g., via an
automatic mode). For example, the output control system may enable the operator to
automatically maintain the ground speed, to automatically maintain a height of the
agricultural implement relative to the field 20, or to automatically maintain a load on
the vehicle 10 below a desired value. One or more reference indicators of the output
control system indicate the current settings (e.g., speed, height, position, load) of the
vehicle 10 and agricultural implement during operation in the manual or automatic
modes.
[0024]    FIG. 2 is a schematic diagram of an embodiment of an output control system
40 for the work vehicle        10.    The illustrated output control system 40 is
communicatively coupled to an adjustable hitch 24 to control the position of the hitch
24 relative to the work vehicle 10 and to the ground 20. Other embodiments of the
output control system 40 may be communicatively coupled to other devices/outputs,
such as the wheels 16 and 18, the PTO 26, or other outputs (e.g., hydraulic lines 28)
of the work vehicle 10 or the adjustable hitch 24. The output (e.g., power output) may
be an electric, pneumatic, or hydraulic power output.
[0025]    The adjustable hitch 24 has one or more bottom arms 42, each having an
attachment point 44 at a free end 46 to facilitate coupling with an agricultural
implement.     The bottom arms 42 are rotatably coupled to a frame 48 of the work
vehicle 10 by a joint 50. One or more actuators (e.g., pneumatic cylinders, hydraulic
cylinders) 52 may adjust an arm height 54 (e.g., height of the attachment point 44
above the ground 20) and/or an arm angle 56 of the bottom arms 42. A hydraulic
pump and/or valve 58 (e.g., driven off the engine or driven by an electric motor) is
fluidly coupled to the actuators 52 to control the bottom arms 42 based at least in part
on control signals from a controller 60. In some embodiments, the pump/valve 58
(e.g., an electronic variable pump) is driven off the engine or driven by an electric
motor. In some embodiments, the pump/valve 58 is an electro-hydraulic valve. The
control signals are based at least in part on manual input signals from a dial 62 in a
console 64 of the cabin 14.
                                            9

[0026]    The dial 62 transmits manual input signals to the controller 60 in response to
manipulation by the operator. The dial 62 is rotated about a dial axis 66. The dial 62
rotates freely in a clockwise direction 68 and in a counter-clockwise direction 70
without stops to limit the possible orientations of the dial 62. That is, the dial 62 may
rotate freely more than 360 degrees in either direction 68 or 70 without a physical
structure to stop the rotation. In some embodiments, the dial 62 may move in steps,
such as approximately 5, 10, 15, 18, 20, or 30 degree increments about the dial axis
66.     Each step may hold the dial 62 in a particular orientation until further
manipulation adjusts the dial 62 in either direction 68, 70.       The dial 62 has an
encoder, such as a rotary encoder, to transmit the manual input signals to the
controller 60. The encoder may be an interval (e.g., relative) encoder. The interval
encoder transmits manual input signals to the controller 60 when rotated, and the
controller 60 then determines the appropriate response based at least in part on the
direction of rotation and the current setting of the bottom arms 42. For example, the
controller 60 may count the rotations of the rotary encoder to determine and/or track
the orientation of the dial 62. A manual input signal from rotating the dial 62 in the
clockwise direction 68 may increase the arm angle 56 and/or increase the arm height
54.    Similarly, a manual input signal from rotating the dial 62 in the counter
clockwise direction 70 may decrease the arm angle 56 and/or decrease the arm height
54. However, in some embodiments, rotating the dial 62 in the clockwise direction 68
decreases the arm angle 56 or arm height 54, and rotating the dial 62 in the counter
clockwise direction 70 increases the arm angle 56 or arm height 54.
[0027]    The manual input signals are indicative of a magnitude and/or a direction of
rotation of the dial 62. The controller 60 receives the manual input signals from the
dial 62 and controls the bottom arms 42 (or other device communicatively coupled to
the dial 62) based at least in part on the manual input signals. For example, in the
illustrated embodiment, the controller 60 controls the bottom arms 42 and/or other
devices by adjusting an output of the pump/valve 58. The controller 60 adjusts the
bottom arms 42 through an output value range between a minimum output value and a
maximum output value. For example, the controller 60 may adjust the bottom arms
42 through a range of motion 72 of approximately 30, 45, 60, or 90 degrees about the
                                            10

joint 50 to adjust the height 54 between a minimum height 74 and a maximum height
76. The range of motion 72 is determined by physical constraints of the work vehicle
 10 or implement. The operator may adjust the minimum height 74 and the maximum
height 76 within the range of motion 72 to establish a subrange of the range of motion
72.
 [0028]   The controller 60 adjusts the bottom arms 42 through the range of motion 72
based at least in part on the manual input signal and the current position of the bottom
arms 42.    For example, the controller 60 may raise the bottom arms 42 to a new
position in response to rotation of the dial 62 in the clockwise direction 68 to a new
set point, until the bottom arms 42 reach the maximum height 76.            That is, the
controller 60 may disregard subsequent manual input signals to raise the bottom arms
42 beyond the maximum height 76. However, due to the configuration of the dial 62,
further rotation of the dial 62 may not be restricted, and the dial 62 may continue to
rotate freely in the clockwise direction 68.    The disregarded manual input signals
transmitted from the dial 62 are considered invalid input signals.        However, the
controller 60 considers subsequent valid manual input signals (e.g., from rotating the
dial 62 in the counter-clockwise direction 70) to lower the bottom arms 42 from the
maximum height 76. Because rotation of the dial 62 to a new set point instructs the
controller 60 to adjust the position of the bottom arms 42 from the current position,
synchronization of the dial 62 with the current position of the bottom arms 42 is
obviated. Furthermore, the controller 60 may instruct the bottom arms 42 to lower in
response to turning the dial 62 in the counter-clockwise direction 70 until the bottom
arms 42 reaches the minimum height 74. The controller 60 may disregard subsequent
invalid manual input signals to lower the bottom arms 42 beyond the minimum height
74.
 [0029]   A reference indicator 78 in the cabin provides feedback to the operator
indicative of the current position of the bottom arms 42. In some embodiments, the
reference indicator 78 is positioned adjacent to and/or around the dial 62, with a
legend 80 to indicate the current position and current position set point of the bottom
arms 42.    Light emitting diodes 82 (LEDs) may be used to indicate the current
position and/or the current position set point. For example, when the bottom arms 42
                                            11

are controlled to the minimum height 74, only a first LED 84 is illuminated. Raising
the bottom arms 42 from the minimum height 74 causes other LEDs 82 of the
reference indicator 78 to sequentially illuminate in the clockwise direction 68 about
the dial axis 66.     At the maximum height 76, all the LEDs 82 of the reference
indicator 78, or in certain embodiments only the last LED 86, is illuminated. In some
embodiments, the reference indicator 78 may indicate the current position and current
position set point of the bottom arms 42 with different light sources or visual
indications. For example, the reference indicator 78 may illuminate red LEDs 82 to
indicate the current position and a blue LED 82 to indicate the current position set
point.   In some embodiments, the current position of the bottom arms 42 may lag
behind the current position set point for a brief time after the dial 62 is adjusted. In
some embodiments, the reference indicator 78 and/or controller 60 may produce an
audible signal (e.g., tone) or haptic feedback (e.g., dial vibration) to indicate when the
current position and/or current position set point is at or near the minimum height 74
and maximum/or height 76.
[0030]    The output control system includes one or more sensors 88 to determine the
current position of the bottom arms 42. The sensors 88 are communicatively coupled
to the controller 60, and may include, but are not limited to, position sensors, torque
sensors, rotation sensors, accelerometers, or pressure sensors, or combinations
thereof.   The controller 60 determines the current position of the bottom arms 42
through feedback from the sensors 88.        In some embodiments, the controller 60
determines the current position of the bottom arms 42 through monitoring the
adjustments to the bottom arms 42 from a known initial position (e.g., minimum
height 74).   The sensors 88 enable the reference indicator 78 to provide feedback
indicative of the current position of the bottom arms 42 during operation of the work
vehicle 10.
[0031]    In some embodiments, the controller 60 may provide automatic control of
the bottom arms 42 during operation of the work vehicle 10.              For example, the
operator may use input controls 90 on the console 64 to establish a set of input
parameters for automatically controlling of the bottom arms 42.          For example, the
input controls 90 may enable an operator to instruct the controller 60 to enter an
                                            12

automatic mode to maintain the height 54 of the bottom arms 42 (e.g., at
approximately 12 inches), to maintain an implement engagement depth using the
bottom arms 42, or to maintain a load (e.g., draft setting) on the adjustable hitch 24, or
any combination thereof. In the automatic mode, the controller 60 adjusts the bottom
arms 42 based on the set of input parameters and current operating conditions. For
example, the controller 60 may instruct the bottom arms 42 to raise or lower
automatically without manual input during operation over uneven terrain. While in
the automatic mode, the current position of the bottom arms 42 may become
unsynchronized from the current orientation of the dial 62. That is, the controller 62,
in the automatic mode, adjusts the bottom arms 42 independently of the orientation of
the dial 62 so that the orientation of the dial 62 does not necessarily correspond to the
current position of the bottom arms 42. The dial 62 does not change orientation with
the adjustments to the position of the bottom arms 42 during the automatic mode.
[0032]    The operator may interrupt automatic control and resume manual control of
the bottom arms 42 via rotation of the dial 62 while the controller is in the automatic
mode. As discussed above, manual rotation of the dial 62 transmits manual input
signals to the controller 60. The controller 60, in turn, adjusts the bottom arms 42
from the current position (e.g., from the position previously commanded by the
controller 60 during the automatic mode). For example, the operator may rotate the
dial 62 to a first orientation that instructs the controller 60 to move the bottom arms
42 to a first position (e.g., a height 54 of approximately 6 inches). The operator may
then re-engage the automatic mode, thereby enabling the controller 60 to maintain a
desired height 54 or the bottom arms 42 (e.g., of approximately 10 inches).            To
maintain the desired height 54, the controller 60 may adjust the bottom arms 42 to one
or more second positions, different from the first position, during operation in the
automatic mode.       At any time, the operator may rotate the dial 62 to interrupt
automatic control and resume manual control of the bottom arms 42. The controller
60 instructs the bottom arms 42 to raise or lower from the second position in response
to rotation of the dial 62. That is, the controller 60 adjusts the position of bottom
arms 42 in response to rotating the dial 62 without prior synchronization of the
orientation of the dial 62 to the current position.
                                             13

[0033]    As a result, the operator may quickly interrupt automatic control and resume
manual control of the bottom arms 42 because the orientation of the dial 62 is
independent of the current position of the bottom arms 42. Moreover, obviating the
step of synchronizing the orientation of the dial 62 with the current position of the
bottom arms 42 simplifies the transition from automatic mode to manual mode. In
some embodiments, any rotation of the dial 62 during the automatic mode transitions
the controller 60 to the manual mode. In other embodiments, only rotations of the
dial 62 that transmit valid manual input signals transition the controller 60 from the
automatic mode to the manual mode.
[0034]    In some embodiments, the work vehicle 10 may enter a powered-down mode
in which one or more of the controller 60, the reference indicator 78, and the
pump/valve 58, are turned off. In some embodiments of the powered-down mode, the
actuators 52 may substantially maintain the current position of the bottom arms 42.
The work vehicle 10 may resume operation and enter a startup mode that activates the
devices that were previously deactivated in the powered-down mode in response to
operator input. In some embodiments, the position of the bottom arms 42 may vary
while the work vehicle 10 is in the powered-down mode. For example, maintenance,
settling, or leaking of hydraulic seals may cause the bottom arms 42 to be in a
different (e.g., lower) position upon entering the startup mode. Upon entering the
startup mode, the controller 60 determines the current position and provides feedback
via the reference indicator 78. As a result the current position of the bottom arms 42
is conveyed to the operator prior to adjustment of the dial 62.        The operator may
adjust the position of the bottom arms 42 upon entering the startup mode without
synchronizing the orientation of the dial 62 to the current position. The manual input
signals direct the controller 60 to adjust the position of the bottom arms 42 relative to
an initial position, rather than synchronizing arm position to a particular orientation of
the dial 62. That is, the operator may rotate the dial 62 to adjust the position of the
bottom arms 42 without first rotating the dial 62 to an orientation that synchronizes
the dial position with the arm position.
[0035]    In the illustrated embodiment, the adjustable hitch 24 includes a top arm 92
configured to couple with the agricultural implement.          The top arm 92 may be
                                             14

coupled to one or more actuators to adjust an extension distance 94 and a link angle
96 of the top arm 92. In some embodiments, the PTO 26 may be arranged within or
proximate to the hitch assembly 24. The controller 60 may control the power output
to one or more of the bottom arms 42, the top arm 92, the PTO 26, the wheels 16 and
18, and other devices of the work vehicle 10. In some embodiments, the console 64
has multiple dials 62 to control multiple outputs. For example, a first dial 98 may
control the bottom arms 42 through the range of motion 72, as discussed above. The
second dial 100 may control the power output supplied to the wheels 16, 18 to control
the ground speed of the work vehicle 10 between a minimum speed (e.g., 0 miles per
hour) and a maximum speed (e.g., 25 miles per hour). In some embodiments, one dial
62 may be used to control multiple outputs through input controls 90.         In some
embodiments, the input controls 90 are used to adjust the range of motion 72, to set a
maximum draft on the adjustable hitch 24, and/or to select the type of agricultural
implement coupled to the adjustable hitch 24. For example, a first input control 102
may direct the dial 62 to control the height 54 of the bottom arms 42, a second input
control 104 may direct the dial 62 to control the position of the top arm 92, a third
input control 106 may direct the dial 62 to control the speed or torque of the wheels
16, 18, and a fourth input control 108 may direct the dial 62 to control the speed or
direction of rotation of the PTO 26.
[0036]    FIG. 3 is a front view of an embodiment of a dial 62 for adjusting a power
output, and a reference indicator 78 for indicating a current setting of the power
output. As discussed above, the dial 62 is rotated about a dial axis 66. In some
embodiments, the dial 62 has surface features 110 (e.g., ridges, grooves, etc.)
arranged along a radial perimeter 112 to facilitate manual rotation. The reference
indicator 78 includes multiple light sources 82 (e.g., LEDs) circumferentially spaced
about the dial 62. The reference indicator 78 may include approximately 3, 4, 5, 6, 7,
8, 9, 10, 15, 20, 30, or more light sources 82. In some embodiments, the legend 80
corresponds to the arrangement of the light sources 82. The legend 80 facilitates
interpretation of the reference indicator 78. For example, the legend 80 may indicate
angles within the range of motion 72, height 54 from the ground 20 (e.g., in inches),
percentage of maximum output value (e.g., speed, torque, etc.), or arbitrary set points
                                            15

(e.g., 2 to 9). For example, with respect to FIGS. 2 and 3, when the bottom arms 42
are at the minimum height 74, only the first LED 84 may be illuminated. The first
LED 84 at the point marked "0" in the legend 80 of FIG. 3 may correspond to
approximately 30 degrees below horizontal about the joint 50. When the bottom arms
42 are at the maximum height 76, all the LEDs 82, or only the last LED 86, may be
illuminated. The last LED 86 at the point marked "9" in the legend 80 of FIG. 3 may
correspond to approximately 60 degrees above horizontal about the joint 50.       The
possible range of motion 72 may be greater or less than 90 degrees in other
embodiments.     In some embodiments, the controller 60 may adjust the brightness
and/or color of the reference indicator 78.      For example, the controller 60 may
decrease the brightness during operation while lights of the vehicle 10 are turned on,
and may increase the brightness during operation while lights of the vehicle 10 are
turned off.
[0037]    In some embodiments, one or more range controls 114 may be employed to
adjust the output value range of the power output. In the illustrated embodiments,
range controls 114 form concentric rings about the dial 62. In other embodiments, the
range controls 114 are separate from the dial 62. The range controls 114 may be used
to establish input parameters for the minimum and maximum values of a subrange
within the range of motion 72 of the bottom arms 42. Accordingly, the subrange may
restrict the range of motion for control in the automatic mode and/or manual mode.
Each range control 114 may have a marking 116 that may be aligned with the legend
80 to establish the bounds of the subrange. For example, the range controls 114 as
shown in FIG. 3 establish a subrange between the points marked "1" and "6" on the
legend 80. This arrangement of range controls may decrease the range of motion to
between approximately 20 degrees below horizontal and approximately 30 degrees
above horizontal. In some embodiments, the dial 62 and the reference indicator 78,
alone or in combination with input controls 90, may be used to establish a subrange of
motion. In some embodiments, the reference indicator 78 may indicate the bounds of
the subrange. For example, LEDs 82 of the reference indicator 78 may illustrate the
bounds of the subrange with a first color (e.g., blue) LED 82, the current position of
the bottom arms 42 with a second color (e.g., red) LED 82, and the current position
                                           16

set point of the bottom arms 42 with a third color (e.g., green) LED 82. As may be
appreciated, the colors of LEDs 82 include, but are not limited to blue, red, green,
cyan, orange, magenta, or yellow, or any combination thereof.
[0038]    FIG. 4 is a perspective view of an alternative dial embodiment of the output
control system 40. A dial 130 within a channel 132 rotates about a dial axis 134 to
control a power output.        In some embodiments, the dial 130 has gear-shaped
perimeter 136, as shown in FIG. 4. Alternatively, the dial 130 may have a smooth
perimeter 136. In some embodiments, rotating the dial 130 in a first direction 138
transmits a manual input signal from an encoder (e.g. rotary encoder) to the controller
60 indicative of an increase in the power output (e.g., to raise the bottom arms 42).
Rotating the dial 130 in a second direction 140 transmits a manual input signal to the
controller 60 indicative of a decrease in the power output (e.g., to lower the bottom
arms 42).     In other embodiments, rotation of the dial in the first direction 138
decreases the power output, and rotation of the dial in the second direction increases
the power output. As discussed above with reference to dial 62 in FIGS. 2 and 3, the
dial 130 may rotate freely about the dial axis 134, without stops that may otherwise
limit rotation. Rotation of the dial 130 adjusts the power output relative to the current
setting/position.  That is, the orientation of the dial 130 does not directly correlate
with the current setting of the power output. In addition, adjusting the current setting
(e.g., when in automatic mode) of the power output does not change the orientation of
the dial 130. However, adjusting the orientation of the dial 130 adjusts the current
setting of the power output. As discussed above, the dial 130 may control the power
output within the output value range by sending manual input signals to the controller
60.
[0039]    The reference indicator 78 and legend 80 may be arranged proximate to the
channel 132. The reference indicator 78 may display the current setting of the power
output by illuminating one or more LEDs 82 corresponding to a particular setting
shown by the legend 80.       In some embodiments, one or more range controls 114
establish subranges of motion based on the positioning of the markings 116.          The
range controls 114 may be within the channel 132, or elsewhere on the console 64 as
shown in FIG. 4.
                                            17

[0040]    FIG. 5 is a front view of an embodiment of the output control system 40 with
an electronic display 150 in the console 64. The console 64 includes the dial 62 and
the electronic display 150, and may also include input controls 90 and/or range
controls 114.    The dial 62 of FIG. 5 may operate in the same way as the dial 62
described above in FIGS. 2 and 3, or the dial 130 of FIG. 4. That is, the dial 62 may
be used to adjust the power output (e.g., to the adjustable hitch) without synchronizing
the orientation of the dial 62 with the current setting of the power output.         The
electronic display 150 may display the reference indicator 78 and system data 152.
The system data 152 may include, but is not limited to, input parameters, work
vehicle operating conditions (e.g., ground speed, engine speed, engine temperature,
fluid levels, PTO output), agricultural implement conditions (e.g., height, draft), field
positioning data, and global positioning coordinates. The reference indicator 78 may
be selectively displayed on the electronic display 150. That is, it may be displayed on
different portions of the electronic display 150, shown at certain intervals, or shown
on demand. In some embodiments, the reference indicator 78 displays a graphical
representation 154 of the power output, such as the position of the adjustable hitch 24.
For example, the reference indicator 78 may display the adjustable hitch at the
minimum height in a first position 156, an intermediate height in a second position
158, or the maximum height in a third position 160.
[0041]    While only certain features of the invention have been illustrated and
described herein, many modifications and changes will occur to those skilled in the
art. It is, therefore, to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover
all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the invention.
                                            18

CLAIMS:
        1.      An output control system of an agricultural work vehicle, comprising:
        a controller configured to control power output through an output value range
between a minimum output value and a maximum output value based at least in part
on a manual input signal, to determine a current setting of the power output, and to
adjust the power output from the current setting upon receipt of the manual input
signal, wherein the controller is configured to control the power output while the
manual input signal is valid and to disregard the manual input signal while the manual
input signal is invalid, the manual input signal is valid while the manual input signal
is configured to adjust the power output within the output value range, and the manual
input signal is invalid while the manual input signal is configured to adjust the power
output outside the output value range;
        a reference     indicator communicatively      coupled to   the controller and
configured to indicate the current setting; and
        a dial communicatively coupled to the controller, wherein adjustment of an
orientation of the dial from an initial position generates the manual input signal.
        2.      The output control system of claim 1, wherein the power output
comprises a hydraulic output.
        3.      The output control system of claim 1, wherein the power output
comprises a ground speed of the agricultural work vehicle, a load on the agricultural
work vehicle, a hydraulic flow, a height of an agricultural implement coupled to the
agricultural work vehicle, or any combination thereof.
        4.      The output control system of claim 1, wherein the dial comprises a
rotary encoder.
        5.      The output control system of claim 1, comprising one or more sensors
communicatively coupled to the controller and configured to generate a feedback
                                              19

signal, wherein the controller is configured to determine the current setting based at
least in part on the feedback signal.
         6.      The output control system of claim 1, wherein the reference indicator
comprises a plurality of light emitting diodes (LEDs).
         7.      The output control system of claim 6, wherein the plurality of LEDs is
disposed at least partially about the dial.
         8.      The output control system of claim 1, comprising one or more range
controls configured to control a subrange of the output value range.
         9.      An agricultural implement control system, comprising:
         a dial configured to generate a manual input signal based at least in part on
manual adjustment of the dial from an initial orientation;
         a reference indicator configured to indicate a current position of an
agricultural implement within a range of motion; and
         a controller communicatively coupled to the dial and to the reference indicator
and configured to adjust the current position of the agricultural implement through the
range of motion, wherein the controller is configurable in a plurality of modes,
comprising:
                 a manual mode configured to control the adjustment of the agricultural
         implement from the current position within the range of motion based at least
         in part on the manual input signal; and
                 an automatic mode configured to control the adjustment of the
         agricultural implement based at least in part on a set of input parameters;
                 wherein the controller is configured to transition from the automatic
         mode to the manual mode in response to the receipt of the manual input signal
         without synchronizing an orientation of the dial with the current position.
         10.     The agricultural implement control system of claim 9, comprising a
hydraulic pump or hydraulic valve configured to supply hydraulic power to one or
                                             20

more hydraulic actuators, wherein the controller is communicatively coupled to the
hydraulic pump or hydraulic valve and configured to instruct the hydraulic pump or
hydraulic valve to control the adjustment of the agricultural implement via the one or
more hydraulic actuators.
        11.     The agricultural implement control system of claim 9, comprising one
or more input controls configured to adjust the set of input parameters.
        12.     The agricultural implement control system of claim 9, wherein the set
of input parameters comprises a minimum value of the range of motion, a maximum
value of the range of motion, a draft setting, or any combination thereof.
        13.     The agricultural implement control system of claim 11, wherein the
reference indicator comprises a plurality of light emitting diodes (LEDs) configured
to indicate the range of motion, wherein the plurality of LEDs comprises LEDs of one
or more colors.
        14      The agricultural implement control system of claim 9, wherein the
controller is configurable in a powered-down mode and a startup mode, wherein the
powered-down mode is configured to turn off at least the reference indicator and to
stop control of the agricultural implement, and the startup mode is configured to turn
on the reference indicator and to control the adjustment of the agricultural implement
from the current position in response to a valid manual input signal without
synchronizing the orientation of the dial with the current position.
        15.     The agricultural implement control system of claim 9, wherein the
manual input signal comprises a valid manual input signal or an invalid manual input
signal, and the controller is configured to transition from the automatic mode to the
manual mode in response to receiving the valid manual input signal and to disregard
an invalid manual input signal.
                                            21

         16.    The agricultural implement control system of claim 9, comprising an
input control communicatively coupled to the controller and configured to transition
the controller from the manual mode to the automatic mode.
         17.    An agricultural work vehicle, comprising:
        an adjustable hitch configured to couple to an agricultural implement;
        a controller communicatively coupled to the adjustable hitch, wherein the
controller is configured to control the adjustable hitch through a range of motion
based at least in part on a manual input signal, to determine a current position of the
adjustable hitch within the range of motion, and to instruct the adjustable hitch to
move from the current position upon receipt of the manual input signal, wherein the
controller is configured to control the adjustable hitch while the manual input signal is
valid and to disregard the manual input signal while the manual input signal is invalid,
the manual input signal is valid while the manual input signal is configured to adjust
the adjustable hitch within the range of motion, and the manual input signal is invalid
while the manual input signal is configured to adjust the adjustable hitch outside the
range of motion;
        a reference     indicator communicatively        coupled to the controller and
configured to indicate the current position of the adjustable hitch; and
        a dial communicatively coupled to the controller, wherein manual rotation of
the dial from an initial position generates the manual input signal.
         18.    The agricultural work vehicle of claim 17, comprising one or more
sensors communicatively coupled to the controller and configured to generate a
feedback signal, wherein the controller is configured to determine the current position
based at least in part on the feedback signal.
         19.    The agricultural work vehicle of claim 17, wherein the reference
indicator is disposed at least partially about the dial.
                                             22

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
