   ABSTRACT
   A method for redeeming a prize in a gaming establishment having at least one gaming
   machine and at least one game controller, the method including the steps of: displaying a
   plurality of prize buckets on a display, each of said plurality of prize buckets being associated
 5 with at least one prize; displaying a plurality of prize level indicators on said display, each prize
   level indicator being associated with a respective one of said plurality of prize buckets;
   accumulating a plurality of reward points based on play of said plurality of gaming machines;
   determining the plurality of accumulated reward points as a proportion of a predefined
   redemption threshold of points; updating said plurality of prize level indicators based on said
10 determining such that said plurality of prize level indicators is each indicative of a progression
   towards eligibility to redeem a respective one of the associated plurality of prize buckets;
   monitoring said plurality of prize level indicators to determine when at least a first of said
   plurality of prize level indicators reach said predefined redemption threshold of points and, in
   response, allow the associated at least one prize to be selectively redeemable from the prize
15 bucket associated with that first prize level indicator.

                            A METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR REDEEMING A PRIZE
   RELATED APPLICATION
   This application is a divisional application of Australian application no. <removed-apn>, which in turn
   is a divisional application of Australian application no. 2014216053. The disclosure of both
 5 applications are incorporated herein by reference.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   This invention relates to promotions in a gaming environment, and more particularly relates to a
   system and method for promotional messaging and management in a gaming environment.
   Gaming machines, such as slot machines, fruit machines, or poker machines, have in recent years
10 become one of the more popular, exciting, and sophisticated wagering activities available at
   gaming establishments. At the same time, gaming machines have also become a source of
   greater revenue for gaming establishments. Thus, competition between manufacturers of
   gaming machines has intensified as competitors vie for business from gaming establishments.
   A large gaming establishment typically employs thousands of gaming machines that can be
15 operated simultaneously. A gaming system providing entertaining and enticing features for
   players would be highly desirable to attract both new and returning players to a gaming
   establishment. Additionally, gaming establishments often arrange promotions or other events to
   attract new customers and provide additional incentives for recurring customers.
   Gaming establishments traditionally use player tracking software in conjunction with membership
20 clubs to monitor, evaluate and subsequently reward customers in proportion to their loyalty to
   the establishment. Player tracking systems use points and complimentaries (hereinafter referred
   to as "comps") as units of measurement and payment. Traditionally, comp is distributed in
   dollars or prizes, while points are accrued and exchanged for rewards. Thus, there are two parts
   to player tracking systems: earning (accruing points and comp) and redemption (exchanging
25 points and comp for goods and services).
   While the accumulation of points is generally considered successful in attracting players, many
   players never end up redeeming those points. On the surface this may seem like a good outcome
   for the establishment, as less is spent providing comps to players, in this also creates an overhang
   liability. That is, this creates an obligation for the establishment to pay out the comps at a later
30 date. For players that don't regularly redeem, points may accrue over a long period of time so
   that when the player eventually realises there is a large points balance and wishes to redeem, the
   establishment has to fund a significant amount of comps in one go to satisfy the overhang
   liability.
   Another issue is that the points may be viewed as being worthless, because the conversion rate is
35 so low. For example in the airline industry, a consumer may be awarded 1 point for every $1

   spent in a certain program, such as a credit card rewards program. However, a return trip costing
   $1000 may require 60,000 points, equating to $60,000 spent to accrue enough points for that
   trip. Thus for the average consumer, the points conversion rate is so low that it is unlikely to
   significantly a consumer's spending activities. Similarly in a gaming establishment, loyalty
 5 programs with low points conversion rates is unlikely to influence a player's betting habits.
   Thus a system and method is needed to encourage players to redeem rewards points regularly to
   reduce the overhang liability. Similarly, a system and method is needed to emphasise that
   rewards points are worthwhile and to encourage players to continue playing in order to accrue
   points.
10 BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   According to an aspect of the invention there is provided a method for redeeming a prize in a
   gaming establishment having at least one gaming machine and at least one game controller, the
   method comprising the steps of:
            displaying a plurality of prize buckets on a display, each of said plurality of prize buckets
15 being associated with at least one prize;
            displaying a plurality of prize level indicators on said display, each prize level indicator
   being associated with a respective one of said plurality of prize buckets;
            accumulating a plurality of reward points based on at least one predefined criterion;
            determining the plurality of accumulated reward points as a percentage relative to a
20 predefined redemption threshold of points;
            updating said plurality of prize level indicators based on said determining such that said
   plurality of prize level indicators is each indicative of 1) the percentage relative to the predefined
   redemption threshold of points, and 2) eligibility to redeem a respective one of the associated
   plurality of prize buckets;
25          monitoring said plurality of prize level indicators to determine when at least a first of said
   plurality of prize level indicators reaches said predefined redemption threshold of points and, in
   response, allow the associated at least one prize to be selectively redeemable from the prize
   bucket associated with that first prize level indicator, and
            continuing to update the respective prize level indicators even after 100% of the
30 associated predefined redemption threshold is reached.
   According to another aspect of the invention, there is provided a system for redeeming a prize in
   a gaming establishment, the system having at least one gaming machine, comprising:
            a display for displaying a plurality of prize buckets, each of said plurality of prize buckets
   being associated with at least one prize, said display also displaying a plurality of prize level
35 indicators, each prize level indicator being associated with a respective one of said plurality of
   prize buckets; and
            a gaming controller configured to:

                      accumulate a plurality of reward points based on at least one predefined
            criterion, the gaming controller also determining the plurality of accumulated reward
            points as a percentage relative to a predefined redemption threshold of points;
                      update said plurality of prize level indicators based on said determining such
 5          that said plurality of prize level indicators is each indicative of 1) the percentage relative
   to the predefined redemption threshold of points, and 2) eligibility to redeem a respective one of
   the associated plurality of prize buckets;
                      monitor said plurality of prize level indicators to determine when at least a
            first of said plurality of prize level indicators reaches said predefined redemption
10          threshold of points and, in response, allow the associated at least one prize to be
            selectively redeemable from the prize bucket associated with that first prize level
   indicator, and
            continuing to update the respective prize level indicators even after 100% of the
          associated predefined redemption threshold is reached.
15
   Preferably, the plurality of buckets are grouped into sets based on a predefined range of reward
   points. A first set of said plurality of buckets is preferably associated with the highest predefined
   range of reward points. Preferably the first set of buckets is assigned to a first group of players,
   and wherein a prize associated with said first set of buckets is only redeemable by said first group
20 of players.
   When one of the plurality of prize buckets is unlocked, the at least one prize associated with the
   unlocked prize bucket preferably becomes immediately selectively redeemable. Preferably when
   the at least one prize becomes immediately selectively redeemable, a notification is sent to a
   player who is eligible to redeem the prize.
25 Said notification in one embodiment is an audible alarm. Alternatively, said notification is visual
   alarm. In still other embodiments, said notification comprises both said audible and said visual
   alarm. Preferably, said visual alarm includes at least one of: 1) a message, 2) a flashing of the
   prize level indicators, 3) a changing of colours of at least one element displayed on the display.
   The gaming establishment preferably further comprises at least one interface having a plurality of
30 buttons including a first button for viewing said at least one prize, a second button for displaying
   at least one prize description, and a third button for sending a redemption instruction for
   selectively redeeming the at least one prize.
   Preferably, said third button is deactivated unless at least one prize is redeemable from a prize
   bucket. Said first button and said second button preferably activates a respective one of a first
35 display area and a second display area, said at least one prize being displayed in said first display
   area and a description of said at least one prize being displayed in said second display area, and

   wherein activation of said first and said second display areas are time limited to discourage
   excessive time spent viewing prizes and descriptions.
   In embodiments, each of said at least one interface is collocated with each of said at least one
   gaming machine. In alternative embodiments, each of said at least one interface is remotely
 5 located from each of said at least one gaming machine.
   In embodiments, said display on which said plurality of prize buckets and said plurality of prize
   level indicators are displayed is common to a plurality of said at least one gaming machine. In
   such embodiments, said plurality of reward points of each of a plurality of players are pooled and
   wherein in response to the pooled reward points reaching said predefined redemption threshold
10 of points, an associated collective prize is selectively redeemable from a prize bucket associated
   with that collective prize by said plurality of players.
   Preferably, said at least one criterion comprises at least one of: 1) a number of credits wagered
   on said at least one gaming machine, 2) a length of time played on said at least one gaming
   machine, 3) a player history, 4) a type of game played 5) a number of credits wagered on any
15 gaming machine in said gaming establishment, and 6) a length of time played in said gaming
   establishment.
   The accumulated plurality of reward points is preferably displayed on said display concurrently
   with said plurality of prize level indicators.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWINGS
20 Figure 1 is a schematic block diagram of core components of a gaming system in accordance with
   an embodiment of the present invention;
   Figure 2 is a diagrammatic representation of a gaming system in accordance with an embodiment
   of the present invention with the gaming system implemented in the form of a standalone
   gaming machine;
25 Figure 3 is a schematic block diagram of operative components of the gaming machine shown in
   Figure 2;
   Figure 4 is a schematic block diagram of components of a memory of the gaming machine shown
   in Figure 2;
   Figure 5 is a schematic diagram of a gaming system in accordance with an alternative
30 embodiment of the present invention with the gaming system implemented over a network;
   Figure 6 is a schematic diagram of functional components of a gaming system in accordance with
   an embodiment of the present invention;
   Figure 7 is an physical representation of the embodiment of the invention shown in Figure 5;

   Figure 8 is a representation of a display of a gaming system in accordance with an embodiment of
   the present invention;
   Figures 9a to 9d are representations of prize buckets and prize level indicators displayed on a
   display of a gaming system in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
 5 Figure 10 is a representation of a prize description and redemption screen in accordance with an
   embodiment of the present invention;
   Figure 11 is a representation of a prize description and redemption screen in accordance with
   another embodiment of the present invention; and
   Figure 12 is a flow diagram illustrating operation of a gaming system in accordance with an
10 embodiment of the present invention.
   The foregoing summary, as well as the following detailed description of certain embodiments of
   the present invention, will be better understood when read in conjunction with the appended
   drawings. For the purpose of illustrating the invention, certain embodiments are shown in the
   drawings. It should be understood, however, that the present invention is not limited to the
15 arrangements and instrumentality shown in the attached drawings.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
   Referring to the drawings, there are shown example embodiments of gaming systems which are
   arranged to implement a prize redemption system and method. In these embodiments, gaming
   machines are arranged to implement a standard base game in which a plurality of symbols are
20 selected from a set of symbols, and players are entitled to accrue reward points for play of those
   games. Once a player accrues sufficient points, the player can selectively choose to redeem a first
   predefined prize from a plurality of prizes. Alternatively, the player can selectively choose to
   accrue additional points in order to redeem another predefined prize having a higher value than
   the first predefined prize.
25 The player's points balance is viewable by the player on demand or in other embodiments, always
   viewable on a secondary screen. As will be discussed further below, the player is always kept
   informed of his or her points balance, as well as any prizes the player is entitled to redeem at any
   point in time. Furthermore, the player is also given a visual indication of any higher value prizes
   that may become available to the player in the future, together with the player's progress
30 towards achieving eligibility to redeem those higher value prizes.
   The gaming system can take a number of different forms. In a first form, a standalone gaming
   machine is provided wherein all or most components for implementing the game are present in a
   player operable gaming machine.

   In a second form, a distributed architecture is provided wherein some of the components for
   implementing the game are present in a player operable gaming machine and some of the
   components for implementing the game are located remotely relative to the gaming machine. For
   example, a "thick client" architecture may be used wherein part of the game is executed on a
 5 player operable gaming machine and part of the game is executed remotely, such as by a gaming
   server; or a "thin client" architecture may be used wherein most of the game is executed
   remotely such as by a gaming server and a player operable gaming machine is used only to
   display audible and/or visible gaming information to the player and receive gaming inputs from
   the player.
10 However, it will be understood that other arrangements are envisaged. For example, an
   architecture may be provided wherein a gaming machine is networked to a gaming server and the
   respective functions of the gaming machine and the gaming server are selectively modifiable. For
   example, the gaming system may operate in standalone gaming machine mode, "thick client"
   mode or "thin client" mode depending on the game being played, operating conditions, and so
15 on. Other variations will be apparent to persons skilled in the art.
   Irrespective of the form, the gaming system includes several core components. At the broadest
   level, the core components are a player interface 50 and a game controller 60 as illustrated in
   Figure 1. The player interface is arranged to enable manual interaction between a player and the
   gaming system and for this purpose includes the input/output components for the player to enter
20 instructions and play the game.
   Components of the player interface may vary from embodiment to embodiment but will typically
   include a credit mechanism 204 to enable a player to input credits and receive payouts, one or
   more displays 54 and a game play mechanism 56 that enables a player to input game play
   instructions.
25 The game controller 60 is in data communication with the player interface and typically includes a
   processor 62 that processes the game play instructions in accordance with game play rules and
   outputs game play outcomes to the display. Typically, the game play instructions are stored as
   program code in a memory 64 but can also be hardwired. Herein the term "processor" is used to
   refer generically to any device that can process game play instructions in accordance with game
30 play rules and may include: a microprocessor, microcontroller, programmable logic device or
   other computational device, a general purpose computer (e.g. a PC) or a server.
   A gaming system in the form of a standalone gaming machine 10 is illustrated in Figure 2. The
   gaming machine 10 includes a console 12 having a display 14 on which is displayed
   representations of a game 16 that can be played by a player. A mid-trim 20 of the gaming
35 machine 10 houses a bank of buttons 22 for enabling a player to interact with the gaming
   machine, in particular during gameplay. The mid-trim 20 also houses a credit input mechanism
   24 which in this example includes a coin input chute 24A and a bill collector 24B. Other credit

   input mechanisms may also be employed, for example, a card reader for reading a smart card,
   debit card or credit card. A reading device may also be provided for the purpose of reading a
   player tracking device, for example as part of a loyalty program. The player tracking device may
   be in the form of a card, flash drive or any other portable storage medium capable of being read
 5 by the reading device.
   A top box 26 may carry artwork 28, including for example pay tables and details of bonus awards
   and other information or images relating to the game. Further artwork and/or information may
   be provided on a front panel 29 of the console 12. A coin tray 30 is mounted beneath the front
   panel 29 for dispensing cash payouts from the gaming machine 10.
10 The primary display 14 shown in Figure 2 is in the form of a video display unit, particularly a
   cathode ray tube screen device. Alternatively, the primary display 14 may be a liquid crystal
   display, plasma screen, any other suitable video display unit, or the visible portion of an
   electromechanical device. The top box 26 may include a secondary display, for example a video
   display unit, which may be of the same type as the display 14, or of a different type. In
15 embodiments, the secondary display is configured to display artwork 28 such that the artwork is
   dynamically interchangeable.
   Figure 3 shows a block diagram of operative components of a typical gaming machine which may
   be the same as or different to the gaming machine of Figure 2.
   The gaming machine 100 includes a game controller 101 having a processor 102. Instructions and
20 data to control operation of the processor 102 are stored in a memory 103, which is in data
   communication with the processor 102. Typically, the gaming machine 100 will include both
   volatile and non-volatile memory and more than one of each type of memory, with such
   memories being collectively represented by the memory 103.
   The gaming machine has hardware meters 104 for purposes including ensuring regulatory
25 compliance and monitoring player credit, an input/output (I/0) interface 105 for communicating
   with peripheral devices of the gaming machine 100. The input/output interface 105 and/or the
   peripheral devices may be intelligent devices with their own memory for storing associated
   instructions and data for use with the input/output interface or the peripheral devices. A random
   number generator module 113 generates random numbers for use by the processor 102. Persons
30 skilled in the art will appreciate that the reference to random numbers includes pseudo-random
   numbers.
   In the example shown in Figure 3, a player interface 120 includes peripheral devices that
   communicate with the game controller 101 include one or more displays 106, a touch screen 107,
   a card and/or ticket reader 108, a printer 109, a bill acceptor and/or coin input mechanism 110
35 and a coin output mechanism 111. Additional hardware may be included as part of the gaming
   machine 100, or hardware may be omitted based on the specific implementation.

   In addition, the gaming machine 100 may include a communications interface, for example a
   network card 112. The network card may, for example, send status information, accounting
   information or other information to a central controller, server or database and receive data or
   commands from the central controller, server or database.
 5 Figure 4 shows a block diagram of the main components of an exemplary memory 103. The
   memory 103 includes RAM 103A, EPROM 103B and a mass storage device 103C. The RAM 103A
   typically temporarily holds program files for execution by the processor 102 and related data.
   The EPROM 103B may be a boot ROM device and/or may contain some system or game related
   code. The mass storage device 103C is typically used to store game programs, the integrity of
10 which may be verified and/or authenticated by the processor 102 using protected code from the
   EPROM 103B or elsewhere.
   In some embodiments, it is also possible for the operative components of the gaming machine
   100 to be distributed, for example input/output devices 106,107,108,109,110,111 to be provided
   remotely from the game controller 101.
15 Figure 5 shows a gaming system 200 in accordance with an alternative embodiment. The gaming
   system 200 includes a network 201, which for example may be an Ethernet network. Gaming
   machines 202, shown arranged in three banks 203 of two gaming machines 202 in Figure 5, are
   connected to the network 201. The gaming machines 202 provide a player an operable interface
   and may be the same as the gaming machines 10, 100 shown in Figures 2 and 3, or may have
20 simplified functionality depending on the requirements for implementing game play. In other
   embodiments, the interface or additional interfaces are located remote of the gaming machines
   10, 100 or 202 shown in the drawings. While banks 203 of two gaming machines are illustrated in
   Figure 5, banks of one, three or more gaming machines are also envisaged.
   One or more displays 204 may also be connected to the network 201. The displays 204 may, for
25 example, be associated with one or more banks 203 of gaming machines. The displays 204 may
   be used to display representations associated with game play on the gaming machines 202,
   and/or used to display other representations, for example promotional or informational material.
   In a thick client embodiment, game server 205 implements part of the game played by a player
   using a gaming machine 202 and the gaming machine 202 implements part of the game. With
30 this embodiment, as both the game server and the gaming device implement part of the game,
   they collectively provide a game controller. A database management server 206 may manage
   storage of game programs and associated data for downloading or access by the gaming devices
   202 in a database 206A. Typically, if the gaming system enables players to participate in a Jackpot
   game, a Jackpot server 207 will be provided to monitor and carry out the Jackpot game.
35 In a thin client embodiment, game server 205 implements most or all of the game played by a
   player using a gaming machine 202 and the gaming machine 202 essentially provides only the
   player interface. With this embodiment, the game server 205 provides the game controller. The

   gaming machine will receive player instructions, pass these to the game server which will process
   them and return game play outcomes to the gaming machine for display. In a thin client
   embodiment, the gaming machines could be computer terminals, e.g. PCs running software that
   provides a player interface operable using standard computer input and output components.
 5 Servers are also typically provided to assist in the administration of the gaming network 200,
   including for example a gaming floor management server 208, and a licensing server 209 to
   monitor the use of licenses relating to particular games. An administrator terminal 210 is
   provided to allow an administrator to run the network 201 and the devices connected to the
   network.
10 The gaming network 200 may communicate with other gaming systems, other local networks, for
   example a corporate network, and/or a wide area network such as the Internet, for example
   through a firewall 211.
   Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that in accordance with known techniques, functionality
   at the server side of the network may be distributed over a plurality of different computers. For
15 example, elements may be run as a single "engine" on one server or a separate server may be
   provided. For example, the game server 205 could run a random generator engine. Alternatively,
   a separate random number generator server could be provided. Further, persons skilled in the
   art will appreciate that a plurality of games servers could be provided to run different games or a
   single game server may run a plurality of different games depending upon the terminals.
20 Now referring to Figure 6, the functionality of an embodiment of the present invention may be
   implemented by a game controller 300 having the functional components illustrated. In these
   embodiments, the functional components are implemented utilizing a processor and memory
   (such as processor 102 and memory 103 in Figure 3, or processor 62 and memory 64 in Figure 1,
   or the game server 205 of Figure 5) and associated programming. Other implementations are
25 envisaged. For example, the functional blocks of Figure 6 may be implemented in hardware or as
   separate units, or a combination of hardware and software as separate units. Any practical
   implementation of these functional units may be employed.
   Still referring to Figure 6, the game controller 300 includes a symbol selector 301 which is
   arranged to select a plurality of symbols from a set of symbols stored in the symbol store 303. In
30 this embodiment, an outcome generator 302 determines a base game outcome based on the
   symbols selected by the symbol selector 301. In the normal course of a game, these symbols are
   displayed on the display (54 of Figure 1, 16 of Figure 2, 106 of Figures 3 and 204 of Figure 5). In
   this embodiment, the selected symbols are displayed as a plurality of virtual reels on a video
   display, having lines and rows. Alternatively, the display may include a stepper motor and
35 physical reels.
   In this embodiment, the outcome of the base game depends on the selected symbols appearing
   on the display and may include a win outcome, loss outcome, trigger outcome, or feature

   outcome or any other outcome. Outcomes may be determined on the basis of symbols appearing
   in the one or more horizontal lines, diagonal lines, or any other predetermined combination, as
   will be known by those skilled in the art.
   A physical representation of the embodiment shown in Figure 5 is depicted in Figure 7. Gaming
 5 machines 202 forms part of a gaming machine system 200. The system 200 comprises a plurality
   of gaming machines 202 each of which, as shown in Figure 2, includes a primary display 14 and a
   secondary display for displaying artwork 28.
   The system 200 further includes a third, remote screen display or screen 204 to which each of the
   gaming machines 202 is connected via the network 201. The remote screen 204 may be visible to
10 each player on any one of the gaming machines 202 of the system 200 and also to spectators that
   may not be playing any of the gaming machines.
   The gaming machines 202 are also linked to the game server 205. In embodiments, the game
   server is configured to monitor what is displayed on the remote screen 204 and also to monitor
   progressive jackpot values and distributions as for a standard linked progressive jackpot system.
15 In some embodiments, when the gaming machines 202 are not being played or the feature has
   not been triggered, an attract mode, which is themed to the base game, is displayed on the
   secondary display 28 in the top box 26 of each gaming machine 202. Further, while the base
   game is being played on the gaming machines 202 or the gaming machines 202 are not being
   played, an attract mode of the theme is displayed on one of the displays 16 or 28 of the gaming
20 machine 202 and/or on the remote screen 204.
   An example embodiment of a system and method for redeeming a prize will now be described
   with reference to Figures 8 to 10. Unless otherwise stated, the examples discussed below refer to
   an embodiment of the invention implemented on the gaming system having a standalone gaming
   machine, such as the embodiment shown in Figures 2 and 3 discussed above. Those skilled in the
25 art will appreciate that embodiments of the invention may readily be implemented on gaming
   systems having multiple gaming machines, such as those shown in Figures 5 and 7 discussed
   above.
   Referring to Figure 8, a representation 800 of a display 14 of the gaming machine 202 is shown.
   In this embodiment, the display 800 comprises a user interface in the form of touchscreen
30 buttons "main" 802, "prizes" 804, "help" 806 and "services" 808; although it will be appreciated
   that the user interface will be implemented in a different in other embodiments. For example, in
   an embodiment, the user interface may be implemented externally of the gaming machine 202 as
   a remote installation. Such an installation is envisaged for the embodiment shown in Figure 7, in
   which a common display 204 is shared among multiple players and is also viewable by non
35 players.

   Returning to Figure 8, display 800 also comprises prize information area 810 for displaying
   information about the prizes available for redemption. In this embodiment, this information is
   presented in the form of a column graph, although it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art
   that the information may be presented in any format convenient.
 5 The prize information area 810 comprises a "bonus points" column 812, which is indicative of the
   points balance accumulated by the player. The points balance is available to the player for
   redeeming a reward from any eligible prize bucket, which is discussed further below. In the case
   of Figure 8, the points balance of the player is 100,000 points.
   The prize information area 810 also comprises a plurality of prize buckets 814, 816, and 818,
10 which are indicative of the prizes that the player may selectively redeem, as well as a predefined
   redemption threshold of points for that prize. For example, in the Figure 8 embodiment, the
   prize bucket 814 is associated with a car having a prize redemption threshold of 1,000,000 points.
   Similarly, prize bucket 816 is associated with an LCD TV having a prize redemption threshold of
   500,000 points, and prize bucket 818 is associated with a holiday having a prize redemption
15 threshold of 100,000 points.
   Furthermore, representations of the prize buckets also include a relative prize level indicator,
   which provides relative visual information regarding the player's progress towards eligibility to
   redeem a reward from one of the prize buckets. In embodiments, the relative prize level
   indicator is determined by calculating the percentage of points relative to the prize redemption
20 threshold. Thus continuing on with the embodiment of Figure 8, the prize redemption threshold
   for bucket 814 is 1,000,000 points while as shown in column 812, the player has only
   accumulated 100,000 points. Accordingly, the player has made a 10% progression towards the
   prize redemption threshold of prize bucket 814. This information is reflected in the form of prize
   level indicator 820, which is shown relative to the other prize buckets 816 and 818 as well as the
25 total points balance column 812. Similarly, the player has made a 20% progression towards the
   prize redemption threshold of bucket 816 and has accumulated enough points to reach 100% of
   the prize redemption threshold for bucket 818. This information is reflected visually by prize level
   indicators 822 and 824, respectively. In some embodiments, the percentage progression is
   indicated on the display in addition to the points level indicators, such as shown in Figure 8.
30 Other embodiments may rely entirely on relative visual information.
   In the preferred embodiment, a prize is redeemable from a prize bucket once the player reaches
   100% of the prize redemption threshold for the bucket. Thus in Figure 8, the player is eligible to
   selectively redeem the holiday prize associated with bucket 818. If the player chooses not to
   immediately redeem the holiday prize, he may continue accruing points and progress towards
35 collecting points to redeem prizes from buckets 814 or 816, which contain higher value prizes.
   Thus it will be appreciated that players are always kept aware of 1) what their points balance is,
   2) what prizes they are eligible to redeem, and 3) their progression towards eligibility for a higher
   value prize.

   To further ensure that a player is kept aware that prize redemption is now available, some
   embodiments provide for a notification to be sent to the player once the player becomes eligible
   to redeem a prize form a prize bucket. This notification can be audible, visual, or both. Audible
   alarms include chimes or bells or any suitable sound commonly associated with a notification, or
 5 being awarded and award. Visual alarms may include one or more of a message a flashing of the
   prize level indicators, a changing of colours of at least one element displayed on the display or
   any other suitable visual effect commonly associated with a notification, or being awarded and
   award. In other embodiments, the visual and audible notifications are associated with one or
   more specific prizes and proportionate to the value of the prizes such that notifications convey
10 some meaning to the player and other spectators. For example, winning a jackpot or a car may
   be associated with a venue-wide notification so that patrons will know immediately that a jackpot
   or a car has been won.
   Note that, in the Figure 8 embodiment, each prize bucket is shown associated with only one prize
   for the sake of simplicity. However, it should be appreciated that each bucket will typically be
15 associated with multiple prizes in other, more preferable embodiments. As well, prizes and
   redemption thresholds indicated in the Figures are chosen for explanatory purposes only.
   In some embodiments, the prize level indicator continues to accumulate even after a player
   reaches 100% of the prize redemption threshold. This is particularly true for low value prize
   buckets, as best shown in Figure 9a. In that example, the player has a points balance of 1,000
20 points, as indicated in bonus points column 812. However, since the prize redemption threshold
   for prize bucket 908 is only 500 points, the player in this scenario has enough points to selectively
   redeem two drinks. This information is reflected in Figure 9a by relative points level indicator 914
   and the percentage progression information of 200%. Alternatively, the player can select to
   redeem one drink immediately and contribute the remaining points to the other prize buckets
25 904 or 906.
   There is no theoretical limit on the number of points the player may accumulate, and so it is
   feasible that the player accumulates many multiples of the prizes available in a prize bucket. This
   is exemplified in a scenario where the player is intent on a higher value prize bucket. Referring
   again to Figure 9a, a player may be intent on redeeming the "tickets" prize, which has a prize
30 redemption threshold of 5,000 points. Thus when the player accumulates 5,000 points, the prize
   level indicator 910 for bucket 904 will indicate 100%, allowing the player to redeem the tickets
   prize from prize bucket 904.
   At the 5,000 points level, however, the player will also have accumulated enough points to
   redeem 5 meals or 10 drinks, or any combination thereof, from prize buckets 906 and 908. To
35 accommodate this information, some embodiments of the prize information area 810
   automatically adjust and resize the representations of the prize buckets such that the respective
   prize level indicators remain displayed visually relative to each other and to the bonus points
   column 812. An example of this is shown in Figure 9b, where the prize level indicators 910', 912'

   and 914' have been resized to remain displayed visually relative to each other, but indicate
   respectively 100%, 500% and 1,000% of the prize redemption threshold of buckets 904, 906 and
   908.
   Note that this embodiment envisages a common accumulation rate for bonus points, with the
 5 points balance displayed in the bonus points column 812. However, those skilled in the art will
   appreciate that accumulation rates will differ between prize buckets in other embodiments. For
   example, bonus points for more desirable prizes such as those associated with prize bucket 904
   may have a slower accumulation rate than for less desirable prizes, such as those associated with
   prize buckets 906 or 908. In such an embodiment, the respective prize redemption thresholds
10 may also be adjusted lower in conjunction with different accumulation rates so that eligibility for
   redeeming higher value and lower value prizes is not too inequitably distributed.
   In embodiments, the gaming system 200 includes a plurality of prize bucket profiles. For
   example, Figures 9a and 9b illustrate a low value prize bucket profile while Figure 9c illustrates a
   mid-value prize bucket profile and Figure 9d illustrates a high value prize bucket profile. In an
15 embodiment, the gaming system 200 automatically assigns a prize profile to a player based on
   some predefined criteria, for example the player's gaming history, which may be collected
   through various player tracking means generally known in the art. Thus when the player is
   identified, the gaming system 200 can readily ascertain for example whether the player has a
   large existing bonus points balance, and can assign a prize bucket profile on this basis. In this
20 example, the gaming establishment may be concerned that the points balance creates too much
   of an overhang liability, and so encourages the player to spend the points by assigning the mid
   value or low value prize bucket profile. The player will see that many prizes are already eligible
   for redemption from various prize buckets, and be encouraged to redeem his or her points.
   Alternatively, the gaming system 200 may ascertain that a player is close to being able to redeem
25 a highly desirable prize, such a car associated with prize bucket 814, and assign the high value
   prize bucket to the player. The player will then see that the prize associated with prize bucket
   814 is close to being redeemable and that he or she is close to winning a car. This will encourage
   the player to continue playing and accumulate more points.
   In other embodiments, the player is offered the opportunity to select a suitable prize bucket
30 profile, for example when he or she registers with the player's club of the gaming establishment
   or at the beginning of play of a game. In this or further embodiments, certain prize bucked
   profiles may be unavailable until the player meets certain criteria. For example, the high value
   prize bucket profile may not become available until the player has wagered a certain number of
   credits. This may be implemented by a tiered approach whereby the player must initially select
35 the low value profile until a first value of credits have been wagered before the mid value profile
   becomes available. The player must then select the mid value profile and wager a second value
   of credits before the high value profile becomes available.

   As mentioned above, the representation 800 of the Figure 8 embodiment comprises a user
   interface in the form of touchscreen buttons "main" 802, "prizes" 804, "help" 806 and "services"
   808. In this embodiment, the interface is implemented in the form of a touchscreen and shares a
   display with the prize information area, which may be the primary display 14 of the gaming
 5 machine 202. In that case, the primary display 14 normally displays the base game 16, such as
   the symbol selection game discussed above. A predefined action by the player causes the gaming
   machine to exit or pause the game 16 and display the representation 800.
   In embodiments, representation 800 is implemented in the form of a window that overlays the
   base game 16. Alternatively, base game 16 may be "minimised" and representation 800 may be
10 displayed in its place. Other variations will be readily understood by those skilled in the art.
   Similarly, when a player touches one of the touchscreen buttons 802, 804, 806 or 808 on the
   interface, a new screen is displayed in place of or over representation 800. Thus for example
   when a player touches the help button 806, a help screen regarding the base game 16 or
   regarding the prize redemption system and method appears. When a player touches services
15 button 808, information regarding services available will appear. Some embodiments will allow
   players to request or purchase services by pressing services button 808. For example, the player
   may be able to request a drink, or to transfer player credits to and from their player account. The
   main button 802 returns the player to the base game 16.
   When the player touches the prizes button 804 on the representation 800, prize description
20 screen 1000 is caused to be displayed on the primary display, as shown in Figure 10. If Prize
   description screen 1000 will typically display a picture of the prize, in this example a car 1002, the
   prize redemption threshold 1004 and a brief description of the prize 1006. This embodiment of
   the prize description screen also includes a prize level indicator 1008, which reformats the
   information shown in prize information area 810 for prize bucket 814. As shown, the player has
25 only reached 85% of the prize redemption threshold for the car and consequently, the redeem
   button 1010 is greyed out and deactivated. If the player had reached 100%, the player would be
   eligible to redeem the prize and the redeem button 1010 would be solid.
   In an alternative embodiment, shown in Figure 11, touching the prizes button 804 would cause
   sub-interface 1100 to be displayed. The player may then choose to view the description screen
30 by touching description button 1102, or to redeem the prize by touching redemption button
   1104. In that case, the prize description screen would be similar to prize description screen 1000
   discussed in relation to Figure 10, but would not include the redeem button 1010.
   In further embodiments, the prize information area 810 covers the entirety of a display. Such an
   embodiment is envisaged in relation to the embodiment shown in Figure 7, where the prize
35 information area 810 is displayed on the common display 204. For practical reasons, the
   interface in this embodiment does not share the common display 204 with the prize information
   area 810. This embodiment is particularly useful for facilitating team games or the like whereby
   players playing on a bank 203 of gaming machines 202 are assigned to a team and collectively

   accumulate points towards one or more shared prize buckets. In such a team game, a team
   reaching a prize redemption threshold may be eligible to share a prize associated with the prize
   bucket, such as a jackpot. In other embodiments, each player may individually be eligible to
   selectively redeem one of the eligible prizes associated with a prize bucket.
 5 Instead of sharing the display 204, the interface may be implemented on one of displays 16 or 28
   of a gaming machine 202, or in other embodiments located remotely from the gaming machines
   202. Such an embodiment is advantageous in accommodating non-players who have an existing
   points balance. For example a player may wish to redeem his or her points for tickets to see a
   show playing in gaming premises. In general, the interface may be implemented in a variety of
10 manners as will be apparent to those skilled in the art, and all should be considered to fall within
   the spirit and scope of the present invention.
   In these and other embodiments, a player must operate the interface before prize information
   area 810 is displayed. Thus the prize information area 810 is not permanently displayed, and is
   only displayed on demand. Furthermore, the prize information area 810 reverts to the base game
15 16 after a predefined period of time. This feature prevents a player wasting too much time tying
   up a gaming machine "shopping" for prizes in embodiments where the interface uses the primary
   display 14 of a gaming machine 202. Furthermore, interface buttons may be deactivated for a
   predefined period of time based on certain criteria, for example, spending too much time in the
   prize description screen.
20 An embodiment of one method for redeeming a prize in a gaming establishment is presented in
   the flowchart shown in Figure 12. Initially, a plurality of prize buckets are displayed on a display
   at step 1202, each of the plurality of prize buckets being associated with at least one prize. A
   plurality of prize level indicators, each being associated with a respective one of the plurality of
   prize buckets is then displayed at step 1204. As the player patronises the gaming establishment,
25 reward points are accumulated based on at least one criterion-for example play of a specific
   game-at step 1206. Using the accumulated rewards points, the gaming system determines a
   percentage of points as a proportion of the predefined redemption threshold at step 1208, and
   uses the determined percentage to dynamically adjust the displayed prize level indicators at step
   1210, so that the plurality of prize level indicators is each indicative of a progression towards
30 eligibility to redeem a respective one of the associated plurality of prize buckets. As step 1212,
   the gaming system monitors the plurality of prize level indicators and determines, at step 1214,
   when at least a first of the plurality of prize level indicators reach the predefined redemption
   threshold of points. In response, at step 1216, the gaming system then allows the associated first
   prize to be selectively redeemable from the prize bucket associated with that first prize level
35 indicator to be. Alternatively, if the prize level indicators have not reached the predefined
   redemption threshold of points, the method returns to step 1206 and continually accumulates
   points based on the at least one criterion. Also, even after a prize becomes redeemable from a
   prize bucket after step 1216, the method returns to step 1206 so that the player may accumulate
   more points to become eligible for additional, higher value prize buckets.

   Accordingly, it is an advantage of the invention that provides a system and method for redeeming
   a prize which encourages a player to redeem rewards points balances more frequently thus
   reducing the overhang liability to the gaming establishment. Another advantage is that the
   system and method encourages players to continue playing to progress towards eligibility to
 5 redeem higher value prizes. This is as a result of the prize information area 810 being visible, so
   that players of the gaming machines 10, 202 may readily discern progress being made towards
   redeeming prizes from certain prize buckets.
   While the invention has been described with reference to one or more preferred embodiments,
   those skilled in the art will understand that changes may be made and equivalents may be
10 substituted without departing from the spirit and the scope of the invention. In addition, many
   modifications may be made to adapt a particular step, structure, or material to the teachings of
   the invention without departing from its scope.     Therefore, it is intended that the invention not
   be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed, but that the invention will include all
   embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.
15

   CLAIMS
   1.       A method for redeeming a prize in a gaming establishment having at least one gaming
   machine and at least one game controller, the method comprising the steps of:
            displaying a plurality of prize buckets on a display, each of said plurality of prize buckets
 5 being associated with at least one prize;
            displaying a plurality of prize level indicators on said display, each prize level indicator
   being associated with a respective one of said plurality of prize buckets;
            accumulating a plurality of reward points based on at least one predefined criterion;
            determining the plurality of accumulated reward points as a percentage relative to a
10 predefined redemption threshold of points;
            updating said plurality of prize level indicators based on said determining such that said
   plurality of prize level indicators is each indicative of 1) the percentage relative to the predefined
   redemption threshold of points, and 2) eligibility to redeem a respective one of the associated
   plurality of prize buckets;
15          monitoring said plurality of prize level indicators to determine when at least a first of said
   plurality of prize level indicators reaches said predefined redemption threshold of points and, in
   response, allow the associated at least one prize to be selectively redeemable from the prize
   bucket associated with that first prize level indicator, and
            continuing to update the respective prize level indicators even after 100% of the
20 associated predefined redemption threshold is reached.
   2.       The method according to claim 1, wherein said plurality of buckets are grouped into sets
   based on a predefined range of reward points.
   3.       The method according to claim 2, wherein a first set of said plurality of buckets is
25 associated with the highest predefined range of reward points.
   4.       The method according to claim 3, wherein the first set of buckets is assigned to a first
   group of players, and wherein a prize associated with said first set of buckets is only redeemable
   by said first group of players.
   5.       The method according to claim 1, wherein when the at least one prize becomes
30 selectively redeemable, a notification is sent to a player who is eligible to redeem the prize.
   6.       The method according to claim 5, wherein said notification is an audible alarm
   7.       The method according to claim 5 or claim 6, wherein said notification is visual alarm.
   8.       The method according to claim 7, wherein said visual alarm includes at least one of: 1) a
   message, 2) a flashing of the prize level indicators, 3) a changing of colours of at least one
35 element displayed on the display.

   9.       The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the gaming
   establishment further comprises at least one interface having a plurality of buttons including a
   first button for viewing said at least one prize, a second button for displaying at least one prize
   description, and a third button for sending a redemption instruction for selectively redeeming the
 5 at least one prize.
   10.      The method according to claim 9, wherein said third button is deactivated unless at least
   one prize is selectively redeemable from one of the plurality of prize buckets.
   11.      The method according to claim 9 or claim 10, wherein said first button and said second
   button activates a respective one of a first display area and a second display area, said at least
10 one prize being displayed in said first display area and a description of said at least one prize
   being displayed in said second display area, and wherein activation of said first and said second
   display areas are time limited to discourage excessive time spent viewing prizes and descriptions.
   12.      The method according to any one of claims 9 to 11, wherein each of said at least one
   interface is co-located with each of said at least one gaming machine.
15 13.      The method according to any one of claims 9 to 11, wherein each of said at least one
   interface is remotely located from each of said at least one gaming machine.
   14.      The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein said display on which
   said plurality of prize buckets and said plurality of prize level indicators are displayed is common
   to a plurality of said at least one gaming machine.
20 15.      The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein said at least one
   criterion comprises at least one of: 1) a number of credits wagered on said at least one gaming
   machine, 2) a length of time played on said at least one gaming machine, 3) a player history, 4) a
   type of game played 5) a number of credits wagered on any gaming machine in said gaming
   establishment, and 6) a length of time played in said gaming establishment.
25 16.      The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein said plurality of
   reward points of each of a plurality of players are pooled and wherein in response to the pooled
   reward points reaching said predefined redemption threshold of points, an associated collective
   prize is selectively redeemable from a prize bucket associated with that collective prize by said
   plurality of players.
30 17.      The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the accumulated
   plurality of reward points is displayed on said display concurrently with said plurality of prize level
   indicators.
   18.      A system for redeeming a prize in a gaming establishment, the system having at least one
   gaming machine, comprising:

            a display for displaying a plurality of prize buckets, each of said plurality of prize buckets
   being associated with at least one prize, said display also displaying a plurality of prize level
   indicators, each prize level indicator being associated with a respective one of said plurality of
   prize buckets; and
 5          a gaming controller configured to:
                      accumulate a plurality of reward points based on at least one predefined
            criterion, the gaming controller also determining the plurality of accumulated reward
            points as a percentage relative to a predefined redemption threshold of points;
                      update said plurality of prize level indicators based on said determining such
10          that said plurality of prize level indicators is each indicative of 1) the percentage relative
   to the predefined redemption threshold of points, and 2) eligibility to redeem a respective one of
   the associated plurality of prize buckets;
                      monitor said plurality of prize level indicators to determine when at least a
            first of said plurality of prize level indicators reaches said predefined redemption
15          threshold of points and, in response, allow the associated at least one prize to be
            selectively redeemable from the prize bucket associated with that first prize level
   indicator, and
            continuing to update the respective prize level indicators even after 100% of the
   associated predefined redemption threshold is reached.
20
   19.      The system according to claim 18, wherein said plurality of buckets are grouped into sets
   based on a predefined range of reward points.
   20.      The system according to claim 19 wherein a first set of said plurality of buckets is
   associated with the highest predefined range of reward points.
25 21.      The system according to claim 20 wherein the first set of buckets is assigned to a first
   group of players, and wherein a prize associated with said first set of buckets is only redeemable
   by said first group of players.
   22.      The system according to claim 16, wherein when the at least one prize becomes
   selectively redeemable, a notification is sent to a player who is eligible to redeem the prize.
30 23.      The system according to claim 22, wherein said notification is an audible alarm
   24.      The system according to claim 22 or claim 23, wherein said notification is visual alarm.
   25.      The system according to claim 24, wherein said visual alarm includes at least one of: 1) a
   message, 2) a flashing of the prize level indicators, 3) a changing of colours of at least one
   element displayed on the display.

   26.      The system according to any one of claims 18 to 24, wherein the gaming establishment
   further comprises at least one interface having a plurality of buttons including a first button for
   viewing said at least one prize, a second button for displaying at least one prize description, and a
   third button for sending a redemption instruction for selectively redeeming the at least one prize.
 5 27.      The system according to claim 26, wherein said third button is deactivated unless at least
   one prize is selectively redeemable from one of the plurality of prize buckets.
   28.      The system according to claim 26 or claim 27, wherein said first button and said second
   button activates a respective one of a first display area and a second display area, said at least
   one prize being displayed in said first display area and a description of said at least one prize
10 being displayed in said second display area, and wherein activation of said first and said second
   display areas are time limited to discourage excessive time spent viewing prizes and descriptions.
   29.      The system according to any one of claims 26 to 28, wherein each of said at least one
   interface is collocated with each of said at least one gaming machine.
   30.      The system according to any one of claims 26 to 28, wherein each of said at least one
15 interface is remotely located from each of said at least one gaming machine.
   31.      The system according to any one of claims 19 to 32, wherein said display on which said
   plurality of prize buckets and said plurality of prize level indicators are displayed is common to a
   plurality of said at least one gaming machine.
   32.      The system according to any one of claims 18 to 31, wherein said at least one criterion
20 comprises at least one of: 1) a number of credits wagered on said at least one gaming machine, 2)
   a length of time played on said at least one gaming machine, 3) a player history, 4) a type of game
   played 5) a number of credits wagered on any gaming machine in said gaming establishment, and
   6) a length of time played in said gaming establishment.
   33.      The system according to any one of claims 18 to 32, wherein said plurality of reward
25 points of each of a plurality of players are pooled and wherein in response to the pooled reward
   points reaching said predefined redemption threshold of points, an associated collective prize is
   selectively redeemable from a prize bucket associated with that collective prize by said plurality
   of players.
   34.      The system according to any one of claims 18 to 33, wherein the accumulated plurality of
30 reward points is displayed on said display concurrently with said plurality of prize level indicators.

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 1                              1/12

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 2                              2/12

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 3                              3/12

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 5                              4/12

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 6   Figure 4                   5/12

                           6/12
<removed-date>
                              204
                                          200
<removed-apn>
                                     201
                    28               28
               28
                                      202
                    202
              202                    14
               14    14
                          Figure 7

                           <removed-apn>  <removed-date>
          7/12
             810
                   824
             822                 806
    820
                                      808
812  814       816     818
        Figure 8

                             8/12
<removed-date>
                    810
              812                        914
<removed-apn>
                                912
                     910
                    904          906           908
                           Figure 9a
                    810
              812                       914
                                 912
                    910
                           Figure 9b

                             9/12
<removed-date>
                     810
              812
<removed-apn>
                           Figure 9c
                     810
               812
                           Figure 9d

                  <removed-apn>  <removed-date>
         10/12
000
    1004
                         1008
                  1002
                 1010
       Figure 10

                            11/12
<removed-date>
                    1100
<removed-apn>
                                    1102
              804
                                    1104
                           Figure 11

                       12/12
<removed-date>
              1202
<removed-apn>
                                                              1212
              1204
              1206
                                                          1214
               1208
                                                              1216
                                  Allow associated prize to
                                  be selectively redeemable
                                  from prize bucket
               1210
                      Figure 12

