                                          ABSTRACT
     The present disclosure provides a bending section for a disposable endoscope. The bending
section comprises a plurality of pull wire locating rings, which are made of a flexible material.
Each of the pull wire locating rings has two opposing side walls defining a pull wire perforation
therein respectively, the pull wire perforation running through the side wall. The pull wire
locating rings are hinged end to end in series to form a bendable flexible tube structure. The pull
wire perforations in the pull wire locating rings are communicated in sequence to define a pull
wire channel located in the side walls of the pull wire locating rings. The pull wire locating ring
has one end surface defining a notch. The present disclosure has the flexibility greatly enhanced
and is more sensitive to pull.

                   BENDING SECTION FOR DISPOSABLE ENDOSCOPE
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001]     The present disclosure relates to the field of medical apparatus and instruments, and in
particular to a bending section for a disposable endoscope.
BACKGROUD
[0002]     With the development of medicine, endoscopic surgeries are increasingly used in
clinical practices in recent years. Endoscopic flexible tube is one of the important parts of an
endoscope. The flexible tube is arranged in the front end of the endoscope to form a bending
section, for facilitating a lens to change direction inside a human body. Current bending
sections are made of metal materials and are fabricated by riveting or welding many pull wire
locating rings, which are made of metal materials, one by one in sequence. Each pull wire
locating ring has an outer wall defining a recess, and a pull wire is arranged to pass through
these recesses in sequence. Since the pull wire locating ring is made of metal materials, the
flexibility is not high enough and sharp-pointed rigid corrugations are easy to occur, which
makes the pull wire pulled unsmoothly. Once one of the pull wire locating rings is damaged, the
pull wire cannot be pulled, consequently, the entire bending section and even the entire
endoscope must be replaced. On the other hand, since the metallic pull wire locating ring is
riveted or welded to one another, the processing technique is complex and bad products are easy
to appear. Moreover, during the usage process, once the riveting point or welding point falls off
or is unsoldered, combined with the rigidness of the metal materials, the entire bending section
is easy to fail in work, the pull wire cannot be pulled and the endoscope cannot deflect. Thus,
inconvenience is caused to operators and unnecessary pain is caused to patients.
[0003]     Thus, existing technologies have certain drawbacks.
SUMMARY
[0004]     In view of the above, in order to solve the problems in existing technologies, the
present disclosure provides a bending section for a disposable endoscope, which is simple to
process and is high in reliability.
[0005]     The present disclosure solves the above problem by the following technical means.

[0006]     A bending section for a disposable endoscope includes a plurality of pull wire locating
rings, which are made of a flexible material.
[0007]     Each of the pull wire locating rings has two opposing side walls defining a pull wire
perforation therein respectively, the pull wire perforation running through the side wall.
[0008]     The pull wire locating rings are hinged end to end in series to form a bendable flexible
tube structure. The pull wire perforations in the pull wire locating rings are communicated in
sequence to define a pull wire channel located in the side walls of the pull wire locating rings.
[0009]     The pull wire locating ring has one end surface defining a notch. The notch is a gap
reserved for two adjacent pull wire locating rings to be capable of rotating relative to each other.
[0010]     Further, the two pull wire perforations on the pull wire locating ring have an axis line
parallel to the axis line of the pull wire locating ring.
[0011]     Further, the axis line of the pull wire locating ring is intersected with a connection line
used for connecting the axis lines of the two pull wire perforations.
[0012]     Further, each of the pull wire locating rings has one end surface provided with two
clamping lugs convexly, and has the other end surface provided with two clamping lug seats
convexly; the two clamping lugs are provided with a round rod respectively, and the two
clamping lug seats define a through hole respectively; the round rods on the two clamping lugs
of one pull wire locating ring are inserted into the through holes on the two clamping lug seats
of one adjacent pull wire locating ring respectively; and the round rods and the through holes
are in one-to-one correspondence, thereby realizing the hinging between the two adjacent pull
wire locating rings.
[0013]     Further, the end surface of the pull wire locating ring provided with clamping lugs
defines a notch, and the end surface of the pull wire locating ring provided with clamping lug
seats is a plane.
[0014]     Further, the end surface of the pull wire locating ring provided with clamping lugs is a
plane, and the end surface of the pull wire locating ring provided with clamping lug seats
defines a notch.
[0015]     Further, the notch is shaped as a concaved curved surface.

[0016]    Further, the pull wire locating ring is made of a medical plastic.
[0017]    Compared with existing technologies, the present disclosure has the following
beneficial effects.
[0018]     1. According to the present disclosure, a flexible material is employed to replace
traditional metal materials. Meanwhile, a bending gap is reserved. Therefore, the bending
section has the flexibility greatly enhanced and is more sensitive to pull.
[0019]    2. Necessary processes for metal materials, such as welding and riveting, are
abandoned. Shaping can be realized by mold injection directly. The assembling is simple and
has high yield.
[0020]    3. The present disclosure avoids the recess structure provided on the surface of the
traditional metal bending section and arranged for a pull wire to pass through. The pull wire is
arranged to directly pass through the side wall. Therefore, frictions caused by the pull wire
frequently entering and exiting the outer wall of the bending section are greatly reduced. Since
the pull wire locating ring is made of a flexible material, the pull wire locating ring is difficult
to be damaged by frequent pulling during the usage process. The usage stability and reliability
are significantly improved. On the other hand, even if one or more pull wire locating rings fall
off or are damaged, the pulling easiness of the pull wire is not affected. The condition that the
pull wire of the metal bending section is stuck in some pull wire locating ring is avoided.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0021]    To better describe the technical scheme in the embodiment of the present disclosure,
accompanying drawings needed in the description of the embodiment are simply illustrated
below. Obviously, accompanying drawings described hereinafter merely illustrate some
embodiments of the present disclosure. For the ordinary skill in the field, other accompanying
drawings may be obtained according to these accompanying drawings without creative work.
[0022]    FIG. 1 is a structure diagram of a pull wire locating ring in the present disclosure.
[0023]    FIG. 2 is a sectional view of a pull wire locating ring in the present disclosure.
[0024]    FIG. 3 is a structure diagram of two adjacent pull wire locating rings that are in
connection in the present disclosure.

[0025]     FIG. 4 is a sectional view of two adjacent pull wire locating rings that are in
connection in the present disclosure.
[0026]     FIG. 5 is a structure diagram of the bending section when in a bending state.
[0027]     Description of designators in drawings
[0028]     1 designates a pull wire locating ring, 2 designates a side wall, 3 designates a pull wire
perforation, 4 designates a pull wire channel, 5 designates a notch, 6 designates a clamping lug,
7 designates a clamping lug seat, 8 designates a round rod, and 9 designates a through hole.
DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENTS
[0029]     The above purpose, technical scheme and advantages of the present disclosure will
become more clearly understood from the detailed description of the technical scheme of the
present disclosure below taken in conjunction with accompanying drawings and specific
embodiments. It should be noted that the embodiments described hereinafter are simply part
embodiments of the present disclosure, but all the embodiments. All other embodiments
obtained by the ordinary skill in the art based on the embodiments in the present disclosure
without creative work are intended to be included in the scope of protection of the present
disclosure.
[0030]     It is to be noted that directional or positional relations indicated by terms such as "top",
"bottom", etc. are directional or positional relations shown based on the drawings, merely to
conveniently describe the present disclosure and simplify the description, but to indicate or
imply the designated device or element to be constructed and operated in a specific position or
in a specific direction. Therefore, the used directional terms cannot be understood as a limit to
the present disclosure.
[0031]     Terms "first", "second" and "third" are merely for the purpose of description, but
cannot be understood as the indication or implication of relative importance or as the implicit
indication of the number of the designated technical features. Therefore, features defined by
"first", "second" and "third" may explicitly or implicitly include one or more such features. In
the description of the present disclosure, unless otherwise stated, "a group of" means two or
more than two.
[0032]     Embodiment

[0033]     Referring to FIG. 1 to FIG. 5, a bending section for a disposable endoscope includes a
plurality of pull wire locating rings 1, which are made of a flexible material.
[0034]     Each of the pull wire locating rings 1 has two opposing side walls 2 defining a pull
wire perforation 3 therein respectively, the pull wire perforation 3 running through the side wall
2.
[0035]     The pull wire locating rings 1 are hinged end to end in series to form a bendable
flexible tube structure. The pull wire perforations 3 in the plurality of pull wire locating rings 1
are communicated in sequence to define a pull wire channel 4 located in the side walls 2 of the
pull wire locating rings 1. The two pull wire channels 4 accommodate a pull wire respectively.
[0036]     The two pull wires have one respective end connected to the pull wire locating ring 1
located at the tail end of the flexible tube structure.
[0037]     The pull wire locating ring 1 has one end surface defining a notch 5. The notch 5 is a
gap reserved for two adjacent pull wire locating rings 1 to be capable of rotating relative to each
other.
[0038]    According to the present disclosure, the pull wire locating ring 1 employs a flexible
material to replace traditional metal materials. Meanwhile, a notch 5 is defined and a bending
gap is reserved. Therefore, the bending section has the flexibility greatly enhanced and is more
sensitive to pull. Moreover, necessary processes for metal materials, such as welding and
riveting, are abandoned. Shaping can be realized by mold injection directly. The assembling is
simple and has high yield. Besides the above, the present disclosure avoids the recess structure
provided on the surface of the traditional metal bending section and arranged for a pull wire to
pass through. The pull wire is arranged to directly pass through the side wall 2 via the pull wire
perforation 3. Therefore, frictions caused by the pull wire frequently entering and exiting the
outer wall of the bending section are greatly reduced. Since the pull wire locating ring 1 is made
of a flexible material, the pull wire locating ring is difficult to be damaged by frequent pulling
during the usage process. The usage stability and reliability are significantly improved. On the
other hand, even if one or more pull wire locating rings 1 fall off or are damaged, the pulling
easiness of the pull wire is not affected. The condition that the pull wire of the metal bending
section is stuck in some pull wire locating ring is avoided.
[0039]     In a preferred embodiment, the two pull wire perforations 3 on the pull wire locating

ring 1 have an axis line parallel to the axis line of the pull wire locating ring 1.
[0040]     In a preferred embodiment, the axis line of the pull wire locating ring 1 is intersected
with a connection line used for connecting the axis lines of the two pull wire perforations 3.
[0041]     In a preferred embodiment, each of the pull wire locating rings 1 has one end surface
provided with two clamping lugs 6 convexly, and has the other end surface provided with two
clamping lug seats 7 convexly; the two clamping lugs 6 are provided with a round rod 8
respectively, and the two clamping lug seats 7 define a through hole 9 respectively; the round
rods 8 on the two clamping lugs 6 of one pull wire locating ring 1 are inserted into the through
holes 9 on the two clamping lug seats 7 of one adjacent pull wire locating ring 1 respectively;
and the round rods 8 and the through holes 9 are in one-to-one correspondence, thereby
realizing the hinging between the two adjacent pull wire locating rings 1.
[0042]     In a preferred embodiment, the end surface of the pull wire locating ring 1 provided
with clamping lugs 6 defines a notch 5, and the end surface of the pull wire locating ring 1
provided with clamping lug seats 7 is a plane.
[0043]     In a preferred embodiment, the end surface of the pull wire locating ring 1 provided
with clamping lugs 6 is a plane, and the end surface of the pull wire locating ring 1 provided
with clamping lug seats 7 defines a notch 5.
[0044]     In a preferred embodiment, the notch 5 is shaped as a concaved curved surface.
[0045]     In a preferred embodiment, the pull wire locating ring 1 is made of a medical plastic.
[0046]     The above embodiments merely illustrate several implementations of the present
disclosure. Although the description is specific and detailed, the protection scope of the present
disclosure is not limited to the above embodiments. It should be noted that, for the ordinary
skill in the art, various variations and improvements also can be made without departing from
the idea of the present disclosure. These variations and improvements are intended to be
included in the scope of protection of the present disclosure. Therefore, the scope of protection
of the present disclosure should be based on the claims appended herein.

                                                  7
                                             CLAIMS
1. A bending section for a disposable endoscope, comprising a plurality of pull wire locating
rings, which are made of a flexible material, wherein
     each of the pull wire locating rings has two opposing side walls defining a pull wire
perforation therein respectively, the pull wire perforation running through the side wall;
     the pull wire locating rings are hinged end to end in series to form a bendable flexible tube
structure; the pull wire perforations in the pull wire locating rings are communicated in
sequence to define a pull wire channel located in the side walls of the pull wire locating rings;
and
     the pull wire locating ring has one end surface defining a notch, the notch being a gap
reserved for two adjacent pull wire locating rings to be capable of rotating relative to each other.
2. The bending section for a disposable endoscope according to claim 1, wherein the two pull
wire perforations on the pull wire locating ring have an axis line parallel to the axis line of the
pull wire locating ring.
3. The bending section for a disposable endoscope according to claim 1, wherein the axis line of
the pull wire locating ring is intersected with a connection line used for connecting the axis
lines of the two pull wire perforations.
4. The bending section for a disposable endoscope according to claim 1, wherein each of the
pull wire locating rings has one end surface provided with two clamping lugs convexly, and has
the other end surface provided with two clamping lug seats convexly; the two clamping lugs are
provided with a round rod respectively, and the two clamping lug seats define a through hole
respectively; the round rods on the two clamping lugs of one pull wire locating ring are inserted
into the through holes on the two clamping lug seats of one adjacent pull wire locating ring
respectively; and the round rods and the through holes are in one-to-one correspondence,
thereby realizing the hinging between the two adjacent pull wire locating rings.
5. The bending section for a disposable endoscope according to claim 1, wherein the end
surface of the pull wire locating ring provided with clamping lugs defines a notch, and the end
surface of the pull wire locating ring provided with clamping lug seats is a plane.

                                                 8
6. The bending section for a disposable endoscope according to claim 1, wherein the end
surface of the pull wire locating ring provided with clamping lugs is a plane, and the end
surface of the pull wire locating ring provided with clamping lug seats defines a notch.
7. The bending section for a disposable endoscope according to claim 1, wherein the notch is
shaped as a concaved curved surface.
8. The bending section for a disposable endoscope according to claim 1, wherein the pull wire
locating ring is made of a medical plastic.

                                   1/3
<removed-date>
                          2                   7
                  5
                                                  7
              3
                                                  9
              6
<removed-apn>
              6
                              8
                                  FIG.1
                              2
                      5                   3
                      5       2           3
                                  FIG.2

                                      2/3
<removed-date>
                          1
              1
<removed-apn>
                                                            7
                                                    9
                              8
                                  FIG. 3
                          1                 2           1
                      4           5             3
                  4               5         2   3
                                  FIG. 4

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                        1
                            1
FIG. 5   8                          3/3
             9

