METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR CURING OF PRE IMPREGNATED
SYNTHETIC COMPONENTS IN SITU
ABSTRACT
A cable (10), which may be produced by the method described herein, comprises a cable (10)
with a core jacket (20) comprising a predetermined cable length where the core jacket (20)
comprises a thermoplastic material comprising a memory characteristic which changes based on
temperature, a set of core components (30), disposed within the core jacket (20), which comprise
the predetermined length, and a strength member (40) disposed within the core jacket (20)
intermediate the core components (30) and the core jacket (20). The strength member (40)
comprises a selectively activated pre-impregnated uncured synthetic material adapted to be cured
while in production, the strength member (40) comprising a length substantially equal to the
predetermined length.

                                                  1
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR CURING OF PRE IMPREGNATED
SYNTHETIC COMPONENTS IN SITU
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001] This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
2013338389, which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/722,678, entitled
"Method and Apparatus For Curing of Pre Impregnated Synthetic Components In Situ" and
filed on 5 November 2012, both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
BACKGROUND
[0002] Many current cable suppliers' tether products fail. Some approaches to addressing these
failures include not gluing anything with respect to a cable and its components and allowing the
components to "slip" between all the layers or gluing everything and locking all the various
cable components together.
[0003] If a cable's inner, core components are not configured in a manner to provide torque
balance when tension is applied, these inner, core components will rotate relative to the cable's
strength member and the cable's outer sheath or jacket then when linear tension is applied. As
an example, this rotation may occur when all core components are cabled in the same direction,
and the core, strength member, and outer sheath or jacket are not coupled. This ability for the
core to rotate while manifesting no visual indication to the operator results in the core
components z-kinking and failing. By "z-kinking," what is meant is that if the core is twisted
and the conductors have no room to accommodate that excess, the cable inner, core components
will yield, resulting in what appears to be a "z" shape. When this occurs, the cable's inner, core
components, e.g. copper wiring, will fail because the cable properties have changed, and the
insulation and the glass fibers will be damaged, e.g. shatter. Fluid conduits in the cable will
have the flow blocked.
FIGURES
[0004] Fig. 1 is a cross-sectional view of an end of an exemplary cable;
[0005] Fig. 2 is a view in partial perspective of an exemplary cable;

                                                   2
 [0006] Fig. 3 is a view in partial perspective of an exemplary cable and cable take-up reel; and
 [0007] Fig. 4 is a schematic view of an exemplary manufacturing process.
 DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
 [0008] As described herein, if a cable jacket has a memory, e.g. it comprises a thermoplastic,
the cable jacket may get sufficiently warm to soften the thermoplastic such as when a cable is on
a ship's deck or when performing a predive procedure. When a cable as described herein is put
into the water, the cable jacket may cool rapidly, causing the thermoplastic to hold a memory of
the shape of a retaining device such as a storage reel or drum.
 [0009] Referring now to Fig. 1, cable 10 comprises core jacket 20; one or more core
components 30 disposed within core jacket 20; and strength member 40 disposed within core
jacket 20 intermediate core components 30 and core jacket 20.
 [0010] Cable 10 typically comprises a predetermined length, and core jacket 20, core
components 30, and strength member 40 also typically comprise the same length as cable 10. In
certain embodiments cable 10 further comprises splicable end 12 (Fig. 2) by which the length of
cable 10 may be extended.
 [0011] Cable 10 may be configured for various uses including as a tether and, in such
embodiments, its design may be used for coupling cable 10 to prevent core component failures,
i.e. adhering the various components as described herein below. Alternatively, cable 10 may be
used as a subsea cable, hose, an umbilical, or the like. Accordingly, cable 10 may be used
subsea when a subsea cable requires a strength member, as its design will allow for handling
torque buildup and damage to core components 30.
 [0012] Core jacket 20, which typically comprises a length substantially equal to the desired
length of cable 10, further comprises a thermoplastic material that will retain its shape when
cooled and which further comprises a memory characteristic which, when at or above a
predetermined temperature, increases the flexibility of core jacket 20 and below the
predetermined temperature causes core jacket 20 to retain a memory of a shape of a container
about which core jacket 20 was wound, e.g. storage reel 100 (Fig. 3). In embodiments, core
jacket 20 compresses about core components 30 when below the predetermined temperature.

                                                  3
The actual temperature depends on the thermoplastic material chosen, as such may each have
different properties and, thus, different ranges.
[0013] Core components 30 may comprise fluid conduit 32, electrical conductor 34, fiber optics
package 35, or the like, or a combination thereof.
[0014] In certain currently contemplated embodiments core jacket 20 comprises thermoplastic
elastomer (TPE) and core components 30 comprise polyethylene.
[0015] Strength member 40, which typically has a length substantially equal to the
predetermined length of cable 10, typically comprises selectively activated, pre-impregnated,
uncured synthetic material 42 (not specifically shown in the figures), such as a heat activated
glue or other material which can be impregnated into strength member 40 and achieve activation
in a process to create a chemical bond, which is adapted to be cured while in production and
may further comprise metal 43 (not specifically shown in the figures) and/or fiber 44
impregnated with a predetermined amount of pre-impregnated uncured synthetic material 42
sufficient to consolidate and stiffen cable 10. In most configurations, strength member 40 may
comprise a yam, nylon, or other suitable material and replaces metals such as steel as a primary
strength member in cable 10. Fiber 44 may comprise a fiber such as Vectran@ Strength Member
Twisted and Coated manufactured by Fiber-line, Inc. of Hatfield, Pa.
[0016] Typically, the predetermined amount of pre-impregnated uncured synthetic material 42
is of an amount that will not create a chemical adhesion but, instead, will add a mechanical
strength by increasing the amount of friction between fiber 44, core jacket 20, and core
components 30 sufficient to only partially bond strength member 40. In this manner, the
bonding is not complete, allowing a technician who is terminating cable 10, e.g. offshore, a
relatively easy way to "peel" or remove strength member 40. In use though, strength member 40
will typically not separate or delaminate from cable 10.
[0017] Strength member 40 is typically locked to core jacket 20 when pre-impregnated material
42 is activated. In certain embodiments a core jacket adhesion process may be used to keep
cable 10 in a helix configuration when pre-impregnated material 42 is activated. In currently
contemplated embodiments one or more heating devices 130 (Fig. 4) such as heat tubes may be
used for the adhesion process to transfer heat to the substrate, including using heated air like a

                                                   4
convection oven. As illustrated generally in Fig. 4, alternative embodiments may comprise use
of induction heaters, heated dies, or the like, or a combination thereof.
[0018] A relatively unlimited length of cable 10 is achievable as strength member 40 can be
spliced, providing the ability to produce various lengths with minimal waste of strength member
40.
[0019] Referring now to Fig. 4, in an embodiment core components 30 and strength member 40
are queued on pay off reel 100 and then fed through a processing assembly comprising Bobbin
pay off 110 and server 120. The output of server 120 is then heated in curing apparatus 130
which, in embodiments, may comprise a heat tube, an induction heater, a radiation and/or light
heater using UV radiation, or the like, or a combination thereof. The processed cable 10 may be
then be fed to and through an additional Bobbin pay off 140 and/or server 150 and then taken up
by takeup device 170 which may comprise a braider, a take up reel, or the like, or a combination
thereof.
[0020] In the operation of certain embodiments, cable 10 may be constructed by assembling an
inner set of core components 30 which typically comprise a length substantially equal to a
desired length of cable 10; surrounding core components 30 with strength member 40, which
also substantially comprises the desired length of cable 10; curing pre-impregnated uncured
synthetic material 42 to a predetermined level of cure while producing cable 10; and
surrounding core components 30 and the now at least partially cured pre-impregnated uncured
synthetic material 42 with outer core jacket 20, the outer core jacket comprising the desired
length. Core components 30, core jacket 20, and strength member 40 are as described herein
above.
[0021] If pre-impregnated uncured synthetic material 42 comprises glue, curing pre
impregnated uncured synthetic material 42 may comprise using heat.
[0022] The ability to cure while in production means that there are substantially few limits on
length of cable 10, e.g. splices can be made prior to curing. The coupling of core components
30, core jacket 20, and strength member 40 by an adhesion process operates to reduce the ability
of core components 30 and core jacket 20 to rotate relative to strength member 40. The adhesion
will also keep cable 10 and its various internal pieces in a helix shape, thus reducing effects of
creep while maintain torque balance.

                                                   5
[0023] Strength member 40, which is described above, may comprise fiber 44 impregnated with
a predetermined amount of pre-impregnated uncured synthetic material 42 sufficient to
consolidate and stiffen the bundle where the predetermined amount of pre-impregnated uncured
synthetic material 42 is sufficient to not create a chemical adhesion while still adding a
mechanical strength by increasing the amount of friction between fiber 44, core jacket 20, and
core components 30.
[0024] Success has been had using water-based adhesion promoters and polyethylene. One
characteristic of a successful production is impregnating fiber 44 with the correct amount of
coating, i.e. the product that is impregnated in strength member 40 which will consolidate cable
10 and make it stiffer. To ascertain a correct amount of coating for a specific set of elements a
heavier coating may be tried first and then the amount of solids reduced as needed. The coating
will not create a chemical adhesion but more mechanical by increasing the amount of friction
between fiber 44, core jacket 20, and core components 30.
[0025] The foregoing disclosure and description of the inventions are illustrative and
explanatory. Various changes in the size, shape, and materials, as well as in the details of the
illustrative construction and/or an illustrative method may be made without departing from the
spirit of the invention.

                                                  6
CLAIMS
 1.   A cable, comprising:
      a core jacket comprising a predetermined length substantially equal to a desired cable
length, the core jacket comprising a thermoplastic material, the thermoplastic material
comprising a memory characteristic which, when at or above a predetermined temperature,
increases flexibility of the core jacket and below the predetermined temperature causes the core
jacket to retain a memory of a shape of a container about which the core jacket was wound;
      a core component disposed within the core jacket, the core component comprising the
predetermined length; and
      a strength member disposed within the core jacket intermediate the core component and
the core jacket, the strength member comprising a selectively activated, pre-impregnated,
uncured synthetic material adapted to be cured when the cable is produced, the strength member
comprising a length substantially equal to the predetermined length.
2.    The cable of Claim 1, wherein:
      the core jacket comprises thermoplastic elastomer (TPE); and
      the core component comprises polyethylene.
3.    The cable of Claim 1, further comprising a splicable end.
4.    The cable of Claim 1, wherein the container comprises a storage reel.
5.    The cable of Claim 1, wherein the core jacket compresses about the core component when
below the predetermined temperature.
6.    The cable of Claim 1, wherein the core component comprises a fluid conduit.
7.    The cable of Claim 1, wherein the core component comprises an electrical conductor.
 8.   The cable of Claim 1, wherein the strength member is locked to the core jacket when the
pre-impregnated material is activated.
9.    The cable of Claim 1, wherein the strength member comprises a metal.

                                                   7
 10.   The cable of Claim 1, wherein the pre-impregnated material comprises a chemical which,
when activated, creates a chemical bond
 11.   The cable of Claim 10, wherein the pre-impregnated material comprises a glue.
 12.   The cable of Claim 11, wherein the glue is activated by heat.
 13.   The cable of Claim 1, wherein the strength member comprises a fiber impregnated with a
predetermined amount of the pre-impregnated uncured synthetic material sufficient to
consolidate and stiffen the cable.
 14.   The cable of Claim 13, wherein the predetermined amount of the pre-impregnated uncured
synthetic material is of an amount that will not create a chemical adhesion but, instead, adds a
mechanical strength to the cable by increasing the amount of friction between the fiber, the core
jacket, and the core component sufficient to only partially bond the strength member.
 15.   The cable of Claim 1, wherein the cable is configured for use as at least one of a tether,
subsea cable, hose, or an umbilical.
 16.   A method of constructing a cable, comprising:
       assembling an inner set of core components, the inner set of core components comprising a
length substantially equal to a desired length of a cable;
       surrounding the inner set of core components with a strength member substantially
comprising the desired length, the strength member comprising a pre-impregnated uncured
synthetic material adapted to be cured during production of the cable;
       curing the pre-impregnated uncured synthetic material to a predetermined level of cure
while producing the cable; and
       surrounding the inner set of core components and the now at least partially cured pre
impregnated uncured synthetic material with an outer core jacket, the outer core jacket
comprising the desired length.
 17.   The method of Claim 16, further comprising using a strength member that comprises a
fiber impregnated with a predetermined amount of the pre-impregnated uncured synthetic
material sufficient to consolidate and stiffen the cable, the predetermined amount of the pre
impregnated uncured synthetic material being sufficient to not create a chemical adhesion while

                                                  8
still adding a mechanical strength by increasing the amount of friction between the fiber, the core
jacket, and the inner set of core components.
 18.    The method of Claim 17, further comprising:
       using a pre-impregnated uncured synthetic material that comprises a glue; and
        curing the pre-impregnated uncured synthetic material comprises using heat.
 19.    The method of Claim 17, further comprising using an extrusion process when surrounding
the inner set of core components and the now at least partially cured pre-impregnated uncured
synthetic material with an outer core jacket, the outer core jacket comprising the desired length.
20.     The method of Claim 17, further using a core jacket adhesion process that keeps the c
cable in a helix configuration when the pre-impregnated material is activated.
                                   Oceaneering International Inc
                       Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                    SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2702><U+2701><U+2702>

