USER APPARATUS, BASE STATION, AND TIME DIFFERENCE INFORMATION
NOTIFICATION METHOD
ABSTRACT
According to one aspect there is provided a user apparatus comprising: measurement means
configured to measure a time difference between a frame in a first base station and a frame in a
second base station; and notification means configured, when detecting a predetermined
notification trigger that is specified by a received message, to notify the first base station or the
second base station of time difference information on the time difference measured by the
measurement means. According to another aspect there is provided a user apparatus,
comprising: reception means configured to receive configuration information of a measurement
gap from a first base station or a second base station; and measurement control means
configured to configure a measurement gap for the first base station, and to configure subframes
that overlap with subframes that become the measurement gap for the first base station as a
measurement gap for the second base station, wherein the measurement control means is
configured to calculate the measurement gap for the first base station, to obtain an absolute time
of the measurement gap, and to calculate the measurement gap for the second base station based
on the absolute time. According to another aspect there is provided a base station used as a
second base station in a mobile communication system including a first base station and the
second base station, comprising: reception means configured to receive, from a user apparatus or
the first base station, time difference information on a time difference between a subframe
in the first base station and a subframe in the second base station; and measurement control
means configured to calculate an absolute time of a measurement gap for the first base station in
the user apparatus based on the time difference information received by the reception means,
and to calculate a measurement gap for the base station in the user apparatus based on the
absolute time. According to another aspect there is provided a time difference information
notification method executed by a user apparatus, comprising: a measurement step of measuring
a time difference between a frame in a first base station and a frame in a second base station;
and a notification step of, when detecting a predetermined notification trigger that is specified
by a received message, notifying the first base station or the second base station of time
difference information on the time difference measured by the measurement step.

                                                   1
USER APPARATUS, BASE STATION, AND TIME DIFFERENCE
INFORMATION NOTIFICATION METHOD
Related Application
       The current application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2015277889,
filed 16 June 2015, the content of which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.
Technical Field
       The present invention relates to a measurement gap (measurement gap) used in a mobile
communication system such as LTE.
Background
      In a mobile communication system such as LTE, a user apparatus UE is caused to measure
radio quality by performing measurement instruction using an RRC signal to the user apparatus
UE, for causing the user apparatus UE to connect to a cell of better quality or for the purpose of
load balancing and the like (non-patent document 1).
      When measuring radio quality of a frequency different from a frequency used for
communication, the user apparatus UE needs to perform RF tuning (radio tuning) for tuning a
reception frequency to the target frequency. At the time, it is necessary to once interrupt the
current communication. The period for interrupting the communication is called a measurement
gap (measurement gap, hereinafter). As shown in Fig. 1, the user apparatus UE does not perform
reception of DL signals and transmission of UL signals. The measurement gap is configured by
measurement configuration information (Measurement configuration) received from a base
station eNB such that the measurement gap periodically arrives.
      Also, since the base station eNB ascertains timing at which the user apparatus UE
performs measurement, the based station eNB stops DL/UL scheduling during that period.
      In Rel-10, CA (Carrier aggregation) is introduced for improving throughputs by
aggregating a plurality of CCs (component carriers). In 3GPP, it is defined that the user
apparatus UE applies a single measurement gap configuration to every CC even in CA. That is,

                                                 2
the user apparatus UE interrupts DL reception/UL transmission in all CCs during the
measurement gap period. The reason that, if a measurement gap is defined for each CC,
implementation of the user apparatus UE becomes complicated.
      In CA up to Rel- 11, a plurality of CCs under the same base station eNB are used as shown
in Fig. 2. In Rel-12, this is expanded so that Dual connectivity is proposed in which
simultaneous communication is performed by using CCs under different base stations eNB to
realize high throughputs (non-patent document 2). That is, in Dual connectivity, the user
apparatus UE performs communication simultaneously using radio resources of two physically
different base stations eNB.
      Dual connectivity (to be referred to as DC hereinafter) is a kind of CA, and it is also
referred to as Inter eNB CA (inter-base station carrier aggregation), in which Master-eNB
(MENB) and Secondary-eNB (SeNB) are introduced. Fig. 3 shows an example of DC. In the
example of Fig. 3, the MeNB communicates with a user apparatus UE by CC#1, and the SeNB
communicates with the user apparatus UE by CC#2, so that DC is realized.
      In DC, a cell group formed by cell(s)(one or a plurality of cells) under an MeNB is called
MCG (Master Cell Group), and a cell group formed by cell(s) (one or a plurality of cells) under
an SeNB is called SCG (Secondary Cell Group). A cell of an SCG added first is called PSCell
(primary SCell).
RELATED ART DOCUMENT
[NON PATENT DOCUMENT]
[NON PATENT DOCUMENT 1] 3GPP TS 36.300 V12.1.0 (2014-03)
[NON PATENT DOCUMENT 2] 3GPP TR 36.842 V12.0.0 (2013-12)
      In the same way as the case of CA (CA that is not DC), also in DC, from the viewpoint of
UE implementation simplification, it is assumed that a measurement gap in units of user
apparatuses UE is applied without differentiating measurement gaps between the MCG and the
SCG.

                                                    3
       A measurement gap (SFN/subframe number which becomes a measurement gap) in LTE
is calculated based on configuration information (gap pattern (including period information),
gap offset). However, it is assumed that, at a certain time, there is a difference between a
subframe (SFN/subframe number) in the MCG (MeNB) and a subframe (SFN/subframe
number) in the SCG (SeNB) Also, as shown in Fig. 4A, in CA (CA which is not DC), CCs to
aggregate belong to the same base station eNB. Thus, subframe boundaries are synchronized
(aligned). On the other hand, in DC, not only there is a difference of SFN/subframe number, like
the above-mentioned one, between the MCG and the SCG, but also there is a possibility in that
there is a difference of subframe boundaries between the MCG (including CC#1) and the SCG
(including CC#2) as shown in Fig. 4B.
       In DC, it is necessary to align measurement gaps between the MCG and the SCG in order
to apply a measurement gap in units of user apparatuses UE. For the purpose of that, it is
necessary that the base station eNB side ascertains the difference of time between the MCG and
the SCG. However, there is no concrete conventional technique for it, so that the base station
eNB cannot properly ascertain the difference.
SUMMARY
       It is an object of the present invention to substantially overcome or ameliorate one or more
of the above disadvantages, or at least provide a useful alternative.
       A further object of embodiments of the present invention is to provide a technique to
enable a base station side to ascertain information of a time difference between a subframe of a
first base station and a subframe of a second base station, in a mobile communication system
including the first base station and the second base station that perform communication with a
user apparatus by inter-base station carrier aggregation.
       A further object of embodiments of the present invention is to provide a technique to
enable to properly configure a measurement gap even when there is a difference in subframe
boundaries between the first base station and the second base station.
       According to one aspect there is provided a user apparatus comprising:
       measurement means configured to measure a time difference between a frame in a first
base station and a frame in a second base station; and

                                                    4
      notification means configured, when detecting a predetermined notification trigger that is
specified by a received message, to notify the first base station or the second base station of time
difference information on the time difference measured by the measurement means.
      According to another aspect there is provided a user apparatus, comprising:
      reception means configured to receive configuration information of a measurement gap
from a first base station or a second base station; and
      measurement control means configured to configure a measurement gap for the first base
station, and to configure subframes that overlap with subframes that become the measurement
gap for the first base station as a measurement gap for the second base station,
      wherein the measurement control means is configured to calculate the measurement gap
for the first base station, to obtain an absolute time of the measurement gap, and to calculate the
measurement gap for the second base station based on the absolute time.
      According to another aspect there is provided a base station used as a second base station
in a mobile communication system including a first base station and the second base station,
comprising:
      reception means configured to receive, from a user apparatus or the first base station, time
difference information on a time difference between a subframe in the first base station
and a subframe in the second base station; and
      measurement control means configured to calculate an absolute time of a measurement
gap for the first base station in the user apparatus based on the time difference information
received by the reception means, and to calculate a measurement gap for the base station in the
user apparatus based on the absolute time.
      According to another aspect there is provided a time difference information notification
method executed by a user apparatus, comprising:
       a measurement step of measuring a time difference between a frame in a first base station
and a frame in a second base station; and
       a notification step of, when detecting a predetermined notification trigger that is specified
by a received message, notifying the first base station or the second base station of time
difference information on the time difference measured by the measurement step.
      According to an embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a user apparatus

                                                   5
for use in a mobile communication system including a first base station and a second base
station that communicate with the user apparatus by inter-base station carrier aggregation,
comprising:
       measurement means configured to measure a time difference between a subframe in the
first base station and a subframe in the second base station; and
       notification means configured, when detecting a predetermined notification trigger that is
specified by a message received from the first base station, to notify the first base station or the
second base station of time difference information on the time difference measured by the
measurement means.
       According to an embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a user apparatus
for use in a mobile communication system including a first base station and a second base
station that communicate with the user apparatus by inter-base station carrier aggregation,
comprising:
       reception means configured to receive configuration information of a measurement gap
from the first base station or the second base station; and
       measurement control means configured to configure a measurement gap for the first base
station based on the configuration information, and to configure subframes that overlap with
subframes that become the measurement gap for the first base station as a measurement gap for
the second base station, wherein the measurement control means is configured to calculate the
measurement gap for the first base station based on the configuration information, to obtain an
absolute time of the measurement gap, and to calculate the measurement gap for the second base
station based on the absolute time.
According to an embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a base station used as a
second base station in a mobile communication system including a first base station and the
second base station that communicate with a user apparatus by an inter-base station carrier
aggregation, comprising:
       reception means configured to receive, from the user apparatus or the first base station,
time difference information on a time difference between a subframe in the first base
station and a subframe in the second base station; and
       measurement control means configured to calculate an absolute time of a measurement
gap for the first base station in the user apparatus based on configuration information of the
measurement gap and the time difference information received by the reception means, and to

                                                   6
calculate a measurement gap for the base station in the user apparatus based on the absolute
time.
       According to an embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a time difference
information notification method executed by a user apparatus for use in a mobile
communication system including a first base station and a second base station that communicate
with the user apparatus by inter-base station carrier aggregation, comprising:
       a measurement step of measuring a time difference between a subframe in the first base
station and a subframe in the second base station; and
       a notification step of, when detecting a predetermined notification trigger that is specified
by a message received from the first base station, notifying the first base station or the second
base station of time difference information on the time difference measured by the measurement
step.
       According to an embodiment, there is provided a user apparatus for use in a mobile
communication system including a first base station and a second base station that communicate
with the user apparatus by inter-base station carrier aggregation, including:
       measurement means configured to measure a time difference between a subframe in the
first base station and a subframe in the second base station; and
       notification means configured, when detecting a predetermined notification trigger, to
notify the first base station or the second base station of time difference information on the time
difference measured by the measurement means.
       According to an embodiment, there is provided a user apparatus for use in a mobile
communication system including a first base station and a second base station that communicate
with the user apparatus by inter-base station carrier aggregation, including:
       reception means configured to receive configuration information of a measurement gap
from the first base station or the second base station;
       and
       measurement control means configured to configure a measurement gap for the first base
station based on the configuration information, and to configure subframes that overlap with
subframes that become the measurement gap for the first base station as a measurement gap for
the second base station.

                                                   7
       According to an embodiment, there is provided a base station used as a second base station
in a mobile communication system including a first base station and the second base station that
communicate with a user apparatus by an inter-base station carrier aggregation, including:
       reception means configured to receive, from the user apparatus or the first base station,
time difference information on a time difference between a subframe in the first base station and
a subframe in the second base station; and
       measurement control means configured to receive configuration information of a
measurement gap from the user apparatus or the first base station, to calculate a measurement
gap for the base station in the user apparatus based on the configuration information and the
time difference information, and to regard a predetermined period before and after the
measurement gap as a measurement gap.
       According to an embodiment, there is provided a base station used as a second base station
in a mobile communication system including a first base station and the second base station that
communicate with a user apparatus by an inter-base station carrier aggregation, including:
       reception means configured to receive, from the user apparatus or the first base station,
time difference information on a time difference between a subframe in the first base station and
a subframe in the second base station; and
       measurement control means configured to calculate an absolute time of a measurement
gap for the first base station in the user apparatus based on configuration information of the
measurement gap and the time difference information received by the reception means, and to
calculate a measurement gap for the base station in the user apparatus based on the absolute
time.
       According to an embodiment, there is provided a time difference information notification
method executed by a user apparatus for use in a mobile communication system including a first
base station and a second base station that communicate with the user apparatus by inter-base
station carrier aggregation, including:
       a measurement step of measuring a time difference between a subframe in the first base
station and a subframe in the second base station; and
       a notification step of, when detecting a predetermined notification trigger, notifying the
first base station or the second base station of time difference information on the time difference

                                                 7a
measured by the measurement step.
      According to an embodiment, there is provided a technique to enable a base station side to
ascertain information of a time difference between a subframe of a first base station and a
subframe of a second base station, in a mobile communication system including the first base
station and the second base station that perform communication with a user apparatus by inter
base station carrier aggregation.
      Also, according to an embodiment, it becomes possible to properly configure a
measurement gap even when there is a difference in subframe boundaries between the first base
station and the second base station.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
      Example embodiments should become apparent from the following description, which is
given by way of example only, of at least one preferred but non-limiting embodiment, described
in connection with the accompanying figures.
      Fig. 1 is a diagram for explaining a measurement gap;
      Fig. 2 is a diagram showing CA up to Rel- 11;
      Fig. 3 is a diagram showing an example of Dual Connectivity;
      Fig. 4A is a diagram for explaining a problem in Dual Connectivity;
      Fig. 4B is a diagram for explaining a problem in Dual Connectivity;
      Fig. 5 is a diagram showing a configuration example of a communication system in an
embodiment of the present invention;
      Fig. 6 is a diagram for explaining a basic operation example of a communication system in
an embodiment of the present invention;
      Fig. 7 is a diagram for explaining a

                            -8
   difference notification method example 1;
             Fig. 8 is a diagram for explaining a
   difference notification method example 2;
             Fig. 9 is a diagram for explaining a
 5 difference notification method example 3;
             Fig. 10A is a diagram for explaining a
   difference information example 1;
             Fig. 10B is a diagram for explaining a
   difference information example 1;
10           Fig. 11 is a diagram for explaining a
   difference information example 2;
             Fig. 12 is a diagram for explaining a
   situation where there is a difference in subframe
   boundaries between MCG and SCG;
15           Fig. 13 is a diagram for explaining a
   handling method example 1 when there is a difference
   in subframe boundaries;
             Fig. 14 is a diagram for explaining a
   handling method example 1 when there is a difference
20 in subframe boundaries;
             Fig. 15 is a diagram for explaining a
   handling method example 2 when there is a difference
   in subframe boundaries;
             Fig. 16 is a diagram showing a
25 configuration example of a user apparatus UE in an
   embodiment of the present invention;
             Fig. 17 is a flowchart showing an
   operation example of a user apparatus UE;
             Fig. 18 is a flowchart showing an
30 operation example of a user apparatus UE;
             Fig. 19 is a flowchart showing an
   operation example of a user apparatus UE;
             Fig. 20 is a diagram showing a
   configuration example of a base station eNB (MeNB,
35 SeNB) in an embodiment of the present invention;
             Fig. 21 is a flowchart showing an
   operation example of a base station eNB  (MeNB,

                             -9
   SeNB)
             Fig. 22 is a flowchart showing an
   operation example of a base station SeNB;
 5 EMBODIMENTS FOR CARRYING OUT THE INVENTION
             In the following, an embodiment of the
   present invention is described with reference to
   figures.  The embodiment described below is merely
   an example, and the embodiment to which the present
10 invention is applied is not limited to the
   embodiment below.   For example, although it is
   assumed that the communication system of the present
   embodiment supports LTE,  the present invention can
   be applied not only to LTE but also to other schemes.
15 Also, in the specification and the claims, the term
   "LTE" is used to mean Rel-12 of 3GPP, or schemes
   after Rel-12 unless otherwise stated.
              (Communication system whole configuration,
   basic operation)
20           Fig.  5 shows a configuration example of a
   mobile communication system in an embodiment of the
   present invention.   As shown in Fig. 5, the mobile
   communication system of the present embodiment
   includes a base station MeNB and a base station SeNB
25 each being connected to a core network 10, which
   enable performing Dual connectivity   (DC) with a user
   apparatus UE.   Communication is available between
   the base station MeNB and the base station SeNB by
   an X2 interface, for example.
30           A basic operation in the present
   embodiment is described with reference to Fig. 6.
   In the present embodiment, the base station MeNB   (it
   may be the base station SeNB) performs measurement
   gap configuration to the user apparatus UE   (step
35 101).  More specifically, the configuration is
   performed by an information element   (measGapConfig)
   of Measurement Configuration in an

                               -10
   RRCConnectionReconfiguration message.      In the
   present embodiment, the time length of the
   measurement gap is 6 ms    (6 subframes),  and a period
   (gap pattern : 40ms or 80ms) and an offset
 5 (gapOffset) are specified by measGapConfig.
              The user apparatus UE configured with the
   measurement gap applies the measurement gap
   according to the configuration     (step 102).    That is,
   the user apparatus UE performs operation of
10 interrupting DL and UL transmission and reception
   during the measurement gap that starts a
   SFN/subframe number calculated from the period
   (MGRP) and the offset.     The user apparatus UE
   performs measurement    (step 103) and transmits a
15 measurement report    (step 104).
              (About difference notification method)
              As described before, in order to align
   measurement gaps between the MCG and the SCG in the
   subframe level, it is necessary that the base
20 station side ascertains the difference of the
   SFN/subframe number between the MCG and the SCG.         In
   the present embodiment, the user apparatus UE
   notifies the base station side of the information of
   the difference.    In the following, as the method,
25 difference notification method examples 1-3 are
   described.
              <Difference notification method example 1>
              First, the difference notification method
   example 1 is described.      The difference notification
30 method example 1 is to notify of a difference of
   time of subframes between the MCG and the SCG when
   configuring   (adding) a base station SeNB     (PSCell).
   That is, notification is triggered by configuration
   for performing inter-base station carrier
35 aggregation.
              An example of an operation sequence in the
   difference notification method example 1 is

                               -11
   described with reference to Fig. 7.        The sequence
   for configuring    (adding) the PSCell    (SeNB) is not
   limited to one shown in Fig. 7, and the one shown in
   Fig. 7 is merely an example.      Also, Fig. 7 shows
 5 main signal flows.     These points similarly apply to
   other sequence diagrams.      Further, in the present
   embodiment, although it is assumed that RRC
   connection is performed between the MeNB and the
   user apparatus UE, RRC connection may be performed
10 between the SeNB and the user apparatus UE.
               As shown in Fig. 7, the base station MeNB
   transmits an SeNB addition request to a base station
   SeNB which is a base station that becomes an SeNB
    (step 201).   The base station SeNB returns an SeNB
15 addition request acknowledgement response to the
   base station MeNB    (step 202).    Then, the base
   station MeNB transmits an RRC signal       (example:
   RRCConnectionReconfiguration) to the user apparatus
   UE to instruct SeNB addition configuration        (step
20 203).
               The user apparatus UE that receives the
   instruction adds an SeNB     (PSCell) and starts
   communication with the base station SeNB.        Also, the
   user apparatus UE measures a difference of subframes
25 between the MCG and the SCG based on a signal
   (synchronization signal, broadcast signal and the
   like) received from the base station MeNB and a
   signal   (synchronization signal, broadcast signal and
   the like) received from the base station SeNB to
30 obtain difference information      (time difference
   information).    An example of difference information
   (time difference information) is described later.
               After SeNB addition configuration, the
   user apparatus UE transmits an SeNB addition
35 configuration complete message      (example:
   RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete) to the base
   station MeNB.    In the example of Fig. 7, the user

                             -12
   apparatus UE transmits the message by including the
   above-mentioned difference information (step 204).
   The message that includes the difference information
   is transmitted from the base station MeNB to the
 5 base station SeNB  (step 205).
             In the above mentioned example, although
   the difference information is included in the
   message of SeNB addition configuration complete,
   this is merely an example.    For example, as
10 indicated by step 206, the difference information
   may be transmitted before SeNB addition
   configuration complete transmission.    Also, as
   indicated in step 207,  the difference information
   may be transmitted after SeNB addition configuration
15 complete transmission.   In any case, the gap
   information is transmitted from the base station
   MeNB to the base station SeNB.
             By the way, the notification of difference
   information based on trigger detection may be
20 performed from the user apparatus UE to the base
   station SeNB, or may be performed from the user
   apparatus UE to both of the base station MeNB and
   the base station SeNB.   Same applies to gap
   notification method examples 2 and 3 described below.
25           <Difference notification method example 2>
             Next, the difference notification method
   example 2 is described.    The difference notification
   method example 2 is to notify of difference
   information at a timing (at a timing when Event A2
30 is triggered) for transmitting a measurement report
   of Event A2.
             In the Event A2, when reception
   power/reception quality of a serving cell    (the
   frequency of which is specified by measurement
35 configuration) deteriorates below a predetermined
   threshold, the user apparatus UE notifies the base
   station eNB of a measurement report on the cell.

                             -13
              When the Event A2 is triggered so that a
   measurement report is transmitted, it is assumed
   that the base station MeNB configures a measurement
   gap in order to cause the user apparatus UE to
 5 measure radio quality of a different frequency.
   Thus, in the difference notification method example
   2, the difference information is notified at the
   timing when the Event A2 is triggered.       Event A2 is
   an example, and difference information may be
10 notified being triggered by occurrence of other
   events by which a measurement gap is assumed to be
   configured.
              An example of an operation sequence in the
   difference notification method example 2 is
15 described with reference to Fig. 8.      The base
   station MeNB transmits a message of measurement
   configuration to the user apparatus UE      (step 301).
   The measurement configuration includes information
   for specifying the Event A2 as a report trigger.
20 The user apparatus UE performs measurement of a
   predetermined frequency to detect occurrence
    (reception quality and the like deteriorated below a
   threshold) of a trigger of the Event A2      (step 302).
              Being triggered by the detection or
25 irrespective of the detection, the user apparatus UE
   measures a difference of subframes between the MCG
   and the SCG based on a signal   (synchronization
   signal, broadcast signal and the like) received from
   the base station MeNB and a signal     (synchronization
30 signal, broadcast signal and the like) received from
   the base station SeNB, and obtains difference
   information.   Then, the user apparatus UE transmits
   a measurement report of the Event A2 by including
   difference information  (step 303).     The difference
35 information is notified from the base station MeNB
   to the base station SeNB   (step 304).
              Instead of transmitting the measurement

                              -14
   report by including the difference information, or,
   in addition to that, the difference information may
   be transmitted by a different signal after
   transmitting the measurement report as indicated in
 5 step 305 of Fig. 8.    Also in this case, the
   difference information is notified from the base
   station MeNB to the base station SeNB.     When
   reporting by the different signal, an UL data amount
   reporting may not be triggered for the data.     That
10 is, RegularBSR may not be triggered.     Alternatively,
   Scheduling request transmission may not be triggered.
   In this case, transmission is performed by an UL
   grant assigned from the base station MeNB or SeNB
   due to another UL data occurrence.
15            In the difference notification method
   example 2, since the user apparatus UE notifies of
   difference information only when there is a
   possibility that a measurement gap is configured,
   unnecessary UL control signal can be reduced.
20            <Difference notification method example 3>
              Next, a difference notification method
   example 3 is described.    The difference notification
   method example 3 is to notify of difference
   information when the user apparatus UE receives an
25 RRC signal   (example: RRCConnectionReconfiguration),
   from the base station MeNB, for configuring a
   measurement gap.    Notification of difference
   information may be performed only when the RRC
   signal includes an information element    (example:
30 measGapConfig) for configuring a measurement gap.
   In the sequence example described below, it is
   assumed that an information element for configuring
   a measurement gap is included.
              When SFNs/subframe numbers of the base
35 station MeNB   (MCG) and the base station SeNB  (SCG)
   are synchronized   (when the difference is equal to or
   less than a predetermined threshold    (when it can be

                              -15
   regarded that there is no gap)),   it is not necessary
   to report a difference.    Therefore, the user
   apparatus UE may notify of the difference
   information only when detecting that they are
 5 asynchronous (that there is a difference).
   According to such an operation, it is possible that
   the NW side   (base station MeNB, more specifically)
   can implicitly ascertain that there is no difference
   when there is no report.
10            In the difference notification method
   example 3, since the difference information can be
   notified when a measurement gap is actually
   configured, compared to the gap notification method
   example 2, unnecessary UL control signals can be
15 reduced more.
              An example of an operation sequence in the
   difference notification method example 3 is
   described with reference to Fig. 9.    The base
   station MeNB transmits an RRC signal for performing
20 measurement gap configuration to the user apparatus
   UE  (step 401).
              The user apparatus UE measures a
   difference of subframes between the MCG and the SCG
   to obtain difference information as described so far.
25            The user apparatus UE that receives the
   instruction of measurement gap configuration
   determines to transmit difference information when
   there is a difference, and first, the user apparatus
   UE determines whether the amount of the difference
30 is equal to or greater than a predetermined
   threshold  (step 402).   When the determination result
   of step 402 is No, notification of difference
   information is not performed   (step 406).
              When the determination result of step 402
35 is Yes, the user apparatus UE notifies the base
   station MeNB of difference information (step 403).
   The difference information is transmitted from the

                               -16
   base station MeNB to the base station SeNB     (step
   404).
              The difference information in step 403 may
   be notified by including it in a complete message
 5  (example: RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete) for
   the RRC signal for configuring a measurement gap.
              (Example of difference information)
              The difference information that the user
   apparatus UE transmits to the base station MeNB may
10 be any information as long as a difference amount
   can be ascertained in the base station MeNB or the
   SeNB side by the information.     However, for example,
   information described with reference to Fig. 10A,
   10B and 11 can be used.
15            Figs.  10A and 10B are diagrams for
   explaining a difference information example 1.      The
   difference information example 1 is time information
   indicating an amount by which the subframes are
   deviated between the MCG and the SCG.     That is,
20 difference information is determined as time
   difference information indicating a difference
   between a time of SFN/subframe    (example: SFN=3,
   subframe 0) of a time position in the MCG     (on the
   premise that CCs in the MCG are synchronized, same
25 applies to SCG) and a time of the SFN/subframe
    (example: SFN=3, subframe 0) in the SCG.    The time
   difference information may be time or a number of
   subframes, or other information.     SFN and subframe
   number of each base station can be ascertained from
30 broadcast information broadcasted from each base
   station, for example.
              The example of Fig. 10A is to measure a
   time difference between a subframe of the base
   station MeNB   (MCG) and a corresponding subframe, of
35 the base station SeNB    (SCG), located after the start
   edge of the subframe of the MeNB    (MCG), and to
   notify of it as difference information.     In the

                               -17
   example of Fig. 10A, it can be found that the MCG
   advances by the time difference compared to the SCG.
              The example of Fig. 1OB is to measure a
   time difference between a subframe edge     (start edge
 5 of SFN=3/subframe 0 in the example of Fig. 10B) of
   the base station MeNB    (MCG) and a corresponding
   subframe edge, of the base station SeNB, that is the
   closest to the subframe edge of the base station
   MeNB  (MCG), and to report the time difference and
10 information indicating which subframe relatively
   advances.
              In the present embodiment, in a case where
   the base station MeNB configures the user apparatus
   UE with a measurement gap, the base station SeNB
15 receives, from the base station MeNB, measurement
   gap configuration information     (gap pattern, gap
   offset and the like)   to be configured in the user
   apparatus UE, and holds the measurement gap
   configuration information.
20            Then, the base station SeNB calculates a
   SFN and a subframe number which become a start point
   of a measurement gap    (period during which DL/UL
   scheduling is not performed) in which the difference
   is not considered, based on the gap pattern and the
25 gap offset, from a predetermined calculation
   equation, and further, applies the difference
   information   (time difference) to the calculated
   measurement gap to calculate a measurement gap
    (period during which DL/UL scheduling is not
30 performed) in which the difference is considered.
   To apply difference information     (time difference) to
   a measurement gap is to make the measurement gap of
   the MCG and the measurement gap of the SCG be
   aligned as much as possible.
35            In the example of Fig. 10A, when a
   measurement gap   (one gap which comes periodically)
   of the MCG is SFN=3/subframe=0-5, a measurement gap

                              -18
   is set to be from subframe 8 of SFN=2 to subframe 3
   of SFN=3 in the SCG.   However, as described with
   reference to Fig. 4B, a difference between subframe
   boundaries remains.   Methods to handle the
 5 difference between subframe boundaries are described
   later.
             The adjustment of a difference in the SCG
   side is similarly performed in the user apparatus UE.
   That is, in the example of Fig. 10A, for example,
10 when the user apparatus UE calculates a measurement
   gap of the MCG as subframes=0-5 of SFN=3, the user
   apparatus UE determines subframes from subframe 8 of
   SFN=2 to subframe 3 of SFN=3 as a measurement gap in
   the SCG side.
15           Fig. 11 is a diagram for explaining a
   difference information example 2.    In the difference
   information example 2, the user apparatus UE
   calculates a gap pattern and a gap offset in the SCG
   such that the MCG and the SCG are aligned in
20 consideration of a difference of subframes between
   the MCG and the SCG,  and notifies of them.
             The base station SeNB that receives the
   difference information   (gap pattern and gap offset)
   via the base station MeNB calculates a measurement
25 gap using the gap pattern and the gap offset, so
   that a measurement gap is calculated such that the
   MCG and the SCG are aligned.    For example, in the
   example of Fig. 10A, when SFN=3/subframes 0-5 is a
   measurement gap  (one gap which arrives periodically),
30 the SCG calculates a measurement gap using the
   difference information   (gap pattern and gap offset)
   so that subframes from a subframe 8 of SFN=2 to a
   subframe 3 of SFN=3 can be calculated as the
   measurement gap.   However, as mentioned above, a
35 difference between subframe boundaries remains.
             The user apparatus UE similarly calculates
   a measurement gap of the SCG from the gap pattern

                             -19
   and the gap offset in the SCG.
              By calculating difference information like
   the difference information example 2 and by
   notifying the base station SeNB of it, NW
 5 implementation simplification and X2 signal
   reduction become possible without necessity of
   information exchange of measurement gap
   configuration information   (MG config) between the
   MeNB and the SeNB.   The user apparatus UE may notify
10 the SeNB of configuration information    (gap pattern
   and gap offset) received from the base station MeNB
   without correction.   In this case, the base station
   SeNB can calculate a measurement gap aligned with
   the MCG side based on difference information that is
15 obtained separately.
              (Method for handling the difference
   between subframe boundaries)
              As shown in Fig. 4B, when there is a
   difference in subframe boundaries between the MCG
20 and the SCG, even though adjustment is performed for
   aligning SFN/subframe as mentioned above, there
   occurs a part where measurement gaps do not overlap
   between the MeNB and the SeNB by a difference
   between subframe boundaries.    Therefore, there is a
25 possibility in that DL reception/UL transmission and
   the like are unnecessarily performed, so that there
   is a possibility in that system throughput
   deteriorates due to resource usage efficiency
   deterioration and UL interference.
30            Fig. 12 shows a situation in a case where
   there is a difference of subframe boundaries between
   the MCG and the SCG.   As shown in Fig. 12,   each of a
   period of A~B in the MCG and a period of C-D in the
   SCG is a period calculated as a measurement gap
35 based on configuration information   (and difference
   information).   In the example of Fig. 12,   there is a
   difference of about half of 1 subframe between the

                              -20
   measurement gap in the MCG and the measurement gap
   in the SCG.
              At this time, the subframe indicated by E
   in the MeNB   (MCG) side is not a measurement gap for
 5 the MCG, but is a timing of a measurement gap for
   the SCG.   Thus, the user apparatus UE is not allowed
   to perform transmission and reception also for the
   MCG in the subframe indicated by E.    Also, the base
   station MeNB is not allowed to perform UL/DL
10 scheduling in the subframe of E.
              Similarly, the subframe indicated by F in
   the SeNB  (SCG) side is not a measurement gap for the
   SCG, but is a timing of a measurement gap for the
   MCG.  Thus, the user apparatus UE is not allowed to
15 perform transmission and reception also for the SCG
   in the subframe indicated by F.    Also, the base
   station SeNB is not allowed to perform UL/DL
   scheduling in the subframe of F.    By the way, in the
   present embodiment, each of a scheduling unit and a
20 transmission/reception unavailability unit is a
   subframe unit.
              That is,  when there is a difference
   between subframe boundaries, there occurs a period
   during which transmission and reception are
25 unavailable and scheduling is unavailable even
   though the period is not a timing of the calculated
   measurement gap.
              By the way, if a measurement gap can be
   configured independently for the MeNB and for the
30 SeNB, the situation shown in Fig. 12 does not become
   a probe.    However, actually, it is difficult to
   configure a measurement gap independently for the
   MeNB and for the SeNB in terms of UE implementation.
   Therefore, in the present embodiment, it is
35 presupposed to configure a measurement gap common to
   the MeNB and the SeNB.
            The present embodiment, as described below,

                                -21
    handles a case where there is a difference between
     subframe boundaries.    In the following, a handling
    method example 1 and a handling method example 2 are
    described. By handling it in these ways, a
  5 measurement gap common to the MeNB and the SeNB can
    be properly configured so that UE implementation can
    be simplified.
               <Handling method example 1 in a case where
    there is a difference between subframe boundaries>
10             In the handling method example 1 in a case
    where there is a difference between subframe
    boundaries, the user apparatus UE does not perform
    transmission and reception in a predetermined period
     (example: 1 subframe, 1 ms) before and after the
15  measurement gap for both of the MCG and the SCG.
    Also, the base station MeNB/SeNB does not perform
    DL/UL scheduling before and after the measurement
    gap in CCs   (CG) under the base station MeNB/SeNB.
               That is, the user apparatus UE regards, in
20  each of measurement gaps of the MCG and the SCG, a
    timing before and after the calculated measurement
    gap to be a transmission reception unavailable
    timing  (additional part of the measurement gap).
    Also, each of the base station MeNB and SeNB regards
25  a timing before and after the measurement gap
    calculated by the base station itself to be a DL/UL
    scheduling unavailable timing (additional part of
    the measurement gap).
               Fig. 13 shows the handling method 1 in a
30  situation the same as that of Fig. 12.     As shown in
    Fig. 13,  in the MeNB   (MCG) side, in subframes of G
    and E which are before and after the measurement gap,
    the user apparatus UE is not allowed to perform
    transmission and reception, and the base station
35  MeNR is not allowed to perform DL/UL scheduling.
    That is, G~E is regarded as a measurement gap.     Also,
    in the SeNB   (SCG) side,  in subframes of F and H

                              -22
    which are before and after the measurement gap, the
    user apparatus UE is not allowed to perform
    transmission and reception, and the base station
     SeNB is not allowed to perform DL/UL scheduling.
  5 That is,  F-H is regarded as a measurement gap.
               However, a function may be provided for
    determining that transmission and reception are
    available even in the predetermined period when a
    difference of subframe boundaries between the MCG
10  and the SCG is sufficiently small (example: when it
    is equal to or less than a predetermined threshold).
    That is, the above-mentioned predetermined period
    may not be provided.
               As to determination of the size of the
15  difference between subframe boundaries, the user
    apparatus UE can use difference information measured
    by the user apparatus UE, and the base station
    MeNB/SeNB can use difference information notified
    from the user apparatus UE.   Also, the base station
20  MeNB/SeNB may ascertain a difference of SFN/subframe
    and a difference of subframe boundaries, by
    exchanging information between the base station MeNB
    and the base station SeNB, without receiving
    notification of difference information from the user
25  apparatus UE, so as to perform calculation of a
    measurement gap in consideration of the difference
    and to perform size determination of a difference.
               An example of an operation sequence of the
    handling method example 1 is described with
30  reference to Fig. 14.   In this example, the base
    station (MeNB or SeNB) transmits an instruction, to
    the user apparatus UE, to regard a timing before and
    after a measurement gap as transmission/reception
    unavailable timing (step 501).   This instruction may
35  be performed only when the boundary difference is
    equal to or greater than a predetermined threshold
    in the base station  (MeNB or SeNB).  When there is

                                 -23
   not this instruction, it is not necessary to perform
   the following processing.         The instruction may be
   defined as new gap configuration information, or may
   be a new RRC signal, MAC signal or PHY signal.
 5             The user apparatus UE determines whether a
   difference amount of subframe boundaries between the
   MCG and the SCG is equal to or greater than a
   threshold    (step 502).    When the determination result
   of step 502 is Yes      (the difference is equal to or
10 greater than threshold),      before and after of the
   measurement gap     (MG) is regarded as
   transmission/reception unavailable timing in each of
   the MCG and the SCG      (regarded as a measurement gap)
    (step 503).    When the determination result of step
15 502 is No    (the difference is less than the
   threshold),    a measurement gap calculated from
   configuration information and the like is used
   without regarding the timing before and after the
   measurement gap     (MG) as the transmission/reception
20 unavailable timing      (step 504).
               <Handling method example 2 in a case where
   there is a difference between subframe boundaries>
                In the handling method example 2, each of
   the user apparatus UE and the base station SeNB
25 performs timing calculation of a measurement gap
   based on a TimeStamp      (absolute time) instead of
   performing timing calculation of the measurement gap
   using a gap pattern and a gap offset.
               An operation example of the user apparatus
30 UE is described with reference to an example shown
   in Fig.   15.   First, the user apparatus UE calculates
   a measurement gap using a measurement gap
   configuration     (gap pattern and gap offset) from the
   base station MeNB     (or the base station SeNB) to
35 obtain a measurement gap in the MCG side shown in
   Fig. 15.
               The user apparatus UE obtains a time T of

                                -24
    the head of the measurement gap of the MCG side to
    ascertain that, for example, the time T is a
    subframe 2 of SFN=3 in the SCG side, and to
    determine a measurement gap as 7 subframes     (7ms)
  5 having the subframe 2 as a head. In the 7 subframes,
    the head subframe includes a head edge of a head
    subframe of the MCG side, and the last subframe
    incudes the last edge of a last subframe in the MCG
    side.   That is, subframes of the SCG side that
10  overlap with subframes in the MCG side that become a
    measurement gap in the MCG side are configured as a
    measurement gap for the SCG.     In the example of Fig.
    15, the 6 subframes   in the MCG side that become a
    measurement gap for the MCG overlap with subframes
15  that become a measurement gap for the SCG in the
    time domain.    More specifically, in the example of
    Fig. 15, the 6 subframes in the MCG side that become
    a measurement gap for the MCG are included in 7
    subframes that become a measurement gap for the SCG
20  in the time domain.
               As described with reference to Fig. 7
    Fig. 10 and the like, the base station SeNB obtains
    difference information    (time difference) between the
    MCG and the SCG to perform processing similar to
25  that performed by the user apparatus UE using the
    difference information. That is, in the example of
    Fig. 15, the base station SeNB has measurement gap
    configuration information, and calculates
    SFN/subframe number that become a measurement gap
30   (corresponding to a measurement gap of the MCG in
    Fig. 15) .   Then, the base station SeNB obtains a
    time T of the head of the measurement gap in the MCG
    side using the difference information, and
    ascertains, for example, that the time T is a
35  subframes 2 of SFN=3 in the SCG side to determine 7
    subframes (7ms) having the subframe 2 as the head to
    be a measurement gap   (a period during which UL/DL

                             -25
   scheduling is not performed).
             According to the handling method example 2,
   as shown in Fig. 15, the MCG is not affected by the
   measurement gap of the SCG.   Thus, a period during
 5 which scheduling cannot be performed is only 6 ms,
   in which there is no additional transmission
   reception unavailable period/scheduling unavailable
   period.   That is, since the measurement gap of the
   MCG side is not affected from the SCG side, the
10 scheduling unavailable period does not increase
   compared to the existing LTE (6ms), so that
   throughput deterioration can be avoided. On the
   other hand, in the SCG, although the period of the
   measurement gap becomes greater than that of the MCG
15 side by 1 subframe, transmission reception
   unavailable period/scheduling unavailable period is
   less than that of the handling method example 1.
              When a difference of subframe boundaries
   between the MCG and the SCG is sufficiently small
20  (when it is equal to or less than a predetermined
   threshold, for example),  transmission reception
   unavailable period /  scheduling unavailable period
   in the SCG may not be provided.   Also, in this case,
   subframes that overlap with subframes that become a
25 measurement gap for the MCG are configured as a
   measurement gap for the SCG.
              As to determination of the size of the
   difference between subframe boundaries, the user
   apparatus UE can use difference information measured
30 by the user apparatus UE, and the base station
   MeNB/SeNB can use difference information notified
   from the user apparatus UE.   Also, the base station
   MeNB/SeNB may ascertain a difference of SFN/subframe
   and a difference of subframe boundaries, by
35 exchanging information between the base station MeNB
   and the base station SeNB, without receiving
   notification of difference information from the user

                              -26
    apparatus UE, so as to perform calculation of a
    measurement gap in consideration of the difference
    and to perform size determination of a difference.
              As described above, according to the
  5 handling method examples 1 and 2, even when there is
    a difference of subframe boundaries between the MCG
    and the SCG, a measurement gap can be properly
    configured.
               (Apparatus configuration, operation flow)
10            <User apparatus UE>
               Fig. 16 shows a configuration example of
    the user apparatus UE that performs operation
    described so far.   Fig. 16 only shows functional
    units especially related to the embodiment of the
15  present invention in the user apparatus UE, and the
    user apparatus UE also includes at least functions,
    not shown in the figure, for performing operation
    complying with LTE.
              As shown in Fig. 16, the user apparatus UE
20  in the present embodiment includes a DL signal
    reception unit 101, an UL signal transmission unit
    102, a DC/CA management unit 103, a measurement
    control unit 104 and a difference measurement unit
    105, and a difference information notification unit
25  106.
              The DL signal reception unit 101 receives
    a radio signal from a base station (MeNB, SeNB), and
    extracts information from the radio signal.   The UL
    signal transmission unit 102 generates a radio
30  signal from transmission information, and transmits
    the radio signal to a base station (MeNB, SeNB).
    The DC/CA management unit 103 performs management
    (holding identification and state of configured CCs,
    and the like),  addition, deletion, activation,
35  deactivation and the like of each cell (CC) that
    forms DC.
              The measurement control unit 104 performs

                              -27
    quality measurement of a predetermined frequency,
    comparison with a threshold, measurement reporting
    trigger detection and the like based on measurement
    configuration information (example: instruction of
  5 Event A2) received from the base station MeNB (it
    may be an SeNB).   Also, the measurement control unit
    104 calculates a measurement gap (SFN/subframe that
    becomes the measurement gap) based on configuration
    information  (gap pattern, gap offset and the like)
10  of the measurement gap (MG), and performs control of
    inhibiting transmission and reception during a
    period of the measurement gap for the MCG. Also,
    the measurement control unit 104 corrects the
    calculated measurement gap based on difference
15  information and the like measured by the difference
    measurement unit 105, and performs control of
    inhibiting transmission and reception in the
    corrected measurement gap for the SCG.   Also, the
    measurement control unit 104 performs before
20  mentioned handling of the difference between
    subframe boundaries.   For example, the measurement
    control unit 104 configures a measurement gap for
    the MCG based on configuration information, and
    configures subframes in the SCG side overlapping
25  with subframes in the MCG side that become the
    measurement gap for the MCG as a measurement gap for
    the SCG.  For example, the measurement control unit
    104 configures a measurement gap for the MCG based
    on configuration information, and configures a
30  measurement gap longer than the measurement gap for
    the MCG by 1 subframe as a measurement gap for the
    SCG.
              The difference measurement unit 105
    measures a difference of timing between the MCG and
35  the SCG based on a signal received from the base
    station MeNB and a signal received from the base
    station SeNB to calculate (obtain) difference

                              -28
   information described with reference to Fig. 10 and
   Fig. 11,  for example.   The difference information
   notification unit 106 notifies the base station
    (MeNB, SeNB) of difference information based on a
 5 predetermined trigger as described with reference to
   Fig. 7-Fig. 9 and the like.
              Although the user apparatus UE can perform
   all operations of the user apparatus UE described so
   far, some operation examples are described in the
10 following.
              Fig. 17 shows a flowchart of an operation
   example on difference information notification in
   the user apparatus UE.    In Fig. 17,  the difference
   measurement unit 105 of the user apparatus UE
15 measures a difference of subframes between the MCG
   and the SCG periodically, for example, so that
   difference information notification is available
   according to occurrence of a trigger.      Alternatively,
   measurement may be performed according to trigger
20 occurrence, and difference information may be
   obtained.
              In step 601 of Fig. 17,   the difference
   information notification unit 106 determines whether
   a trigger of difference information notification is
25 detected.   When a trigger is detected    (example:
   reception of a signal of MG configuration),     the
   difference information notification unit 106
   notifies, for example, the base station MeNB of
   difference information via the UL signal
30 transmission unit 102   (step 602).
              Fig. 18 shows a flowchart of an operation
   example on the handling method example 1 in the case
   where there is a difference in subframe boundaries.
              In step 701, the measurement control unit
35 104 of the user apparatus UE receives configuration
   information of a measurement gap    (MG) from the base
   station MeNB to be configured with a measurement gap.

                               -29
               The measurement control unit 104 inquiries
    to the DC/CA management unit 103 to check whether DC
    is configured or not, that is, an MCG and an SCG are
    configured or not   (step 702).
  5            When DC is configured   (Yes of step 702),
    the process goes to step 703, and the measurement
    control unit 104 calculates a measurement gap
     (SFN/subframe number where the measurement gap
    starts) of the MCG, and further, calculates a
10  measurement gap (SFN/subframe number where the
    measurement gap starts) of the SCG using the
    difference information, and further, regards, for
    each of the MCG and the SCG, a predetermined period
     (example: Ims) before and after the calculated
15  measurement gap as a measurement gap to perform
    control of inhibiting transmission and reception in
    the measurement gap.
               On the other hand, when DC is not
    configured (No in step 702), the process goes to
20  step 704, and the measurement control unit 104
    calculates a measurement gap    (SFN/subframe number
    where a measurement gap starts) of a serving cell,
    and performs control to inhibit transmission and
    reception in the calculated measurement gap.
25             Fig. 19 shows a flowchart of an operation
    example on the handling method example 2 in the case
    where there is a difference in subframe boundaries.
               In step 801, the measurement control unit
    104 of the user apparatus UE receives configuration
30  information of a measurement gap (MG) from the base
    station MeNB to be configured with a measurement gap.
               The measurement control unit 104 inquiries
    to the DC/CA management unit 103 to check whether DC
    is configured or not, that is, an MCG and an SCG are
35  configured or not (step 802).
               When DC is configured   (Yes of step 802),
    the process goes to step 803, and the measurement

                              -30
   control unit 104 calculates a measurement gap
    (SFN/subframe number where the measurement gap
   starts) of the MCG.    The measurement control unit
   104 obtains an absolute time     (example: time T of Fig.
 5 15)  of the measurement gap of the MCG, and
   calculates a measurement gap for the SCG based on
   the absolute time.    The measurement control unit 104
   performs control of inhibiting transmission and
   reception in the measurement gap in each of the MCG
10 and the SCG.    That is, a measurement gap is
   configured in each of the MCG and the SCG.
              On the other hand, when DC is not
   configured   (No in step 802),  the process goes to
   step 804, and the measurement control unit 104
15 calculates a measurement gap    (SFN/subframe number
   where a measurement gap starts) of a serving cell,
   and performs control to inhibit transmission and
   reception in the calculated measurement gap.
              The configuration   (functional
20 segmentation) of the apparatus shown in Fig. 16 is
   merely an example, and, the implementation method
    (concrete arrangement of functional units, and the
   like) is not limited to a specific implementation
   method as long as the apparatus can execute
25 processing described in the present embodiment.      For
   example, the user apparatus of the present
   embodiment can be configured as an apparatus having
   the following functional means.
              That is,  the user apparatus of the present
30 embodiment is configured as a user apparatus for use
   in a mobile communication system including a first
   base station and a second base station that
   communicate with the user apparatus by inter-base
   station carrier aggregation, including:
35            measurement means configured to measure a
   time difference between a subframe in the first base
   station and a subframe in the second base station;

                            -31
   and
             notification means configured, when
   detecting a predetermined notification trigger, to
   notify the first base station or the second base
 5 station of time difference information on the time
   difference measured by the measurement means.
   According to this configuration, it becomes possible
   that a base station side ascertains information of a
   time difference between a subframe of a first base
10 station and a subframe of a second base station.
             The predetermined notification trigger is,
   for example, that the user apparatus receives a
   configuration signal for performing the inter-base
   station carrier aggregation from the first base
15 station or the second base station. According to
   this configuration, the user apparatus can notify of
   time difference information when there is a
   possibility that a time difference occurs.
             The predetermined notification trigger may
20 be that an event is triggered, in the user apparatus,
   for transmitting a measurement report when reception
   quality in a residing cell deteriorates below a
   predetermined threshold.   According to this
   configuration, the user apparatus can notify of time
25 difference information when there is a possibility
   that a measurement gap is set.
             The predetermined notification trigger may
   be to receive configuration information of a
   measurement gap from the first base station or the
30 second base station. According to this
   configuration, the user apparatus can notify of time
   difference information only when a measurement gap
   is configured.
             Also, the user apparatus of the present
35 embodiment may be configured as a user apparatus for
   use in a mobile communication system including a
   first base station and a second base station that

                            -32
   communicate with the user apparatus by inter-base
   station carrier aggregation, including:
             reception means configured to receive
   configuration information of a measurement gap from
 5 the first base station or the second base station;
   and
             measurement control means configured to
   configure a measurement gap for the first base
   station based on the configuration information, and
10 to configure a measurement gap that is longer than
   the measurement gap for the first base station by 1
   subframe as a measurement gap for the second base
   station.  According to this configuration,
   unnecessary DL reception/UL transmission due to a
15 difference of subframe boundaries can be avoided, so
   that deterioration of resource use efficiency and
   the like can be prevented.
             Also, the user apparatus of the present
   embodiment may be configured as a user apparatus for
20 use in a mobile communication system including a
   first base station and a second base station that
   communicate with the user apparatus by inter-base
   station carrier aggregation, including:
             reception means configured to receive
25 configuration information of a measurement gap from
   the first base station or the second base station;
   and
             measurement control means configured to
   configure a measurement gap for the first base
30 station based on the configuration information, and
   to configure subframes that overlap with subframes
   that become the measurement gap for the first base
   station as a measurement gap for the second base
   station.  According to this configuration,
35 unnecessary DL reception/UL transmission due to a
   difference of subframe boundaries can be avoided, so
   that deterioration of resource use efficiency and

                             -33
   the like can be prevented.
              The measurement control means may be
   configured to calculate the measurement gap for the
   first base station based on the configuration
 5 information, to obtain an absolute time of the
   measurement gap, and to calculate the measurement
   gap for the second base station based on the
   absolute time.   According to this configuration,
   increase of communication unavailable period due to
10 a difference of subframe boundaries can be decreased.
             <Base station eNB>
              Fig. 20 shows a configuration example of
   the base station eNB that executes operation
   described so far.   Since the base staions of MeNB
15 and SeNB have basically the same configuration, Fig.
   20 shows a configuration that can be applied to any
   of the MeNB and the SeNB.    When RRC connection with
   the user apparatus UE is performed only by the base
   station MeNB, a function for performing measurement
20 configuration by an RRC signal may be provided only
   in the measurement control unit 204 of the base
   station MeNB.
             Fig. 20 only shows functional units
   especially related to the embodiment of the present
25 invention in the base station eNB, and the base
   station eNB also includes at least functions, not
   shown in the figure, for performing operation
   complying with LTE.
             As shown in Fig. 20, the base station eNB
30 of the present embodiment includes a DL signal
   transmission unit 201, an UL signal reception unit
   202, a DC/CA management unit 203, a measurement
   control unit 204, a scheduling unit 205, a
   difference information obtaining unit 206 and an
35 inter-base station communication unit 207.
             The UL signal transmission unit 201
   generates a radio signal from transmission

                              -34
   information, and transmits the radio signal to a
   user apparatus UE.   The UL signal reception unit 202
   receives a radio signal from a user apparatus UE,
   and extracts information from the radio    signal.  The
 5 DC/CA management unit 203 performs management
    (holding identification and state of configured CCs,
   and the like),  addition, deletion, activation,
   deactivation and the like of each cell    (CC) that
   forms DC.
10           The measurement control unit 204 transmits,
   to the user apparatus UE, measurement configuration
   information (instruction of Event, configuration of
   measurement gap and the like).    Also, the
   measurement control unit 204 transmits and receives
15  (shares) measurement configuration information with
   another base station   (example: SeNB for MeNB, MeNB
   for SeNB, or the like) via the inter-base station
   communication unit 207.    Also, the measurement
   control unit 204 calculates a measurement gap
20  (SFN/subframe number where a measurement gap starts)
   based on configuration of a measurement gap for the
   user apparatus UE, and notifies the scheduling unit
   205 of the period of the measurement gap.
   Calculation of the measurement gap includes
25 correction by difference information in the SeNB and
   addition of a period regarded as a measurement gap,
   and the like.
              The scheduling unit 205 performs control
   of not performing UL/DL scheduling during a period
30 of the measurement gap   (when there is a period
   regarded as a measurement gap, it is   included)
   notified from the measurement control unit 204.
              The difference information obtaining unit
   206 obtains difference information from the user
35 apparatus UE or from another base station    (example:
   MeNB for SeNB),  and passes the difference
   information to the measurement control unit 204.

                             -35
   The inter-base station communication unit 207
   performs transmission and reception of information
   with another base station.
             Although the base station eNB can perform
 5 all operations of the base station   (MeNB, SeNB)
   described so far, some operation examples are
   described in the following.
             Fig. 21 shows a flowchart of an operation
   example on the handling method example 1 in the case
10 where there is a difference in subframe boundaries.
             In step 901,  the measurement control unit
   204 of the base station eNB transmits configuration
   information of a measurement gap (MG) to the user
   apparatus UE to configure the user apparatus UE with
15 the measurement gap.
             The measurement control unit 204 inquiries
   to the DC/CA management unit 203 to check whether DC
   is configured or not, that is, whether the base
   station eNB is the MeNB or the SeNB (whether MCG and
20 SCG are configured by the base station eNB and
   another base station) (step 902).
             When DC is configured   (Yes in step 902).
   the process goes to step 903,  so that the
   measurement control unit 204 calculates a
25 measurement gap (SFN/subframe number where the
   measurement gap starts) of the MCG (when the base
   station eNB is MeNB).   When the base station eNB is
   an SeNB, the measurement control unit 204 calculates
   the measurement gap of the MCG, and calculates a
30 measurement gap (SFN/subframe number where the
   measurement gap starts)  of the SCG using difference
   information received from the MeNB, for example.
   Further, in both cases, a predetermined period
   (example: lms) before and after the calculated
35 measurement gap is regarded as a measurement gap, so
   that the scheduling unit 205 performs control of not
   performing UL/DL scheduling in the measurement gap.

                              -36
              On the other hand, when DC is not
   configured   (No in step 902),  the process goes to
   step 904, and the measurement control unit 204
   calculates a measurement gap (SFN/subframe number
 5 where the measurement gap starts) of a serving cell,
   and performs control of not performing UL/DL
   scheduling in the calculated measurement gap.
              Fig. 22 shows a flowchart of an operation
   example on the handling method example 2 in the case
10 where there is a difference in subframe boundaries.
   The operation in Fig. 22 is an operation example
   when the base station eNB is an SeNB.
              In step 1001,  the measurement control unit
   204 receives configuration information of a
15 measurement gap   (MG) from the base station MeNB (or
   the user apparatus UE).    The measurement control
   unit 104 calculates a measurement gap     (SFN/subframe
   number where the measurement gap starts) of the MCG,
   and obtains an absolute time    (example: time T of Fig.
20 15) of the measurement gap of the MCG, and
   calculates a measurement gap    (a period regarded as a
   measurement gap) for the SCG based on the absolute
   time.  The scheduling unit 205 performs control of
   not performing scheduling in the period.
25            The configuration   (functional
   segmentation) of the apparatus shown in Fig. 20 is
   merely an example, and, the implementation method
   (concrete arrangement of functional units, and the
   like) is not limited to a specific implementation
30 method as long as the apparatus can execute
   processing described in the present embodiment.      For
   example, the base station of the present embodiment
   can be configured as an apparatus having the
   following functional units.
35           That is, the base station in the present
   embodiment is configured as a base station used as a
   second base station in a mobile communication system

                            -37
   including a first base station and the second base
   station that communicate with a user apparatus by an
   inter-base station carrier aggregation, including:
             reception means configured to receive,
 5 from the user apparatus or the first base station,
   time difference information on a time difference
   between a subframe in the first base station and a
   subframe in the second base station; and
             measurement control means configured to
10 receive configuration information of a measurement
   gap from the user apparatus or the first base
   station, to calculate a measurement gap for the base
   station in the user apparatus based on the
   configuration information and the time difference
15 information, and to regard a predetermined period
   before and after the measurement gap as a
   measurement gap.  According to this configuration,
   it becomes possible that a base station ascertains
   information of a time difference between a subframe
20 of a first base station and a subframe of a second
   base station, and unnecessary scheduling due to a
   difference of subframe boundaries can be avoided, so
   that deterioration of resource use efficiency and
   the like can be prevented.
25           Also, the base station of the present
   embodiment is configured as a base station used as a
   second base station in a mobile communication system
   including a first base station and the second base
   station that communicate with a user apparatus by an
30 inter-base station carrier aggregation, including:
             reception means configured to receive,
   from the user apparatus or the first base station,
   time difference information on a time difference
   between a subframe in the first base station and a
35 subframe in the second base station; and
             measurement control means configured to
   calculate an absolute time of a measurement gap for

                             -38
   the first base station in the user apparatus based
   on configuration information of the measurement gap
   and the time difference information received by the
   reception means, and to calculate a measurement gap
 5 for the base station in the user apparatus based on
   the absolute time.   According to this configuration,
   it becomes possible that a base station ascertains
   information of a time difference between a subframe
   of a first base station and a subframe of a second
10 base station, and increase of communication
   unavailable period due to a difference of subframe
   boundaries can be decreased.
             In the following, configurations disclosed
   in the present specification are recited as examples.
15            (Item 1)
             A user apparatus for use in a mobile
   communication system including a first base station
   and a second base station that communicate with the
   user apparatus by inter-base station carrier
20 aggregation, including:
             measurement means configured to measure a
   time difference between a subframe in the first base
   station and a subframe in the second base station;
   and
25           notification means configured, when
   detecting a predetermined notification trigger, to
   notify the first base station or the second base
   station of time difference information on the time
   difference measured by the measurement means.
30            (Item 2)
             The user apparatus as described in item 1,
   wherein the predetermined notification trigger is
   that the user apparatus receives a configuration
   signal for performing the inter-base station carrier
35 aggregation from the first base station or the
   second base station.
              (Item 3)

                              -39
             The user apparatus as described in item 1,
   wherein the predetermined notification trigger is
   that an event is triggered, in the user apparatus,
   for transmitting a measurement report when reception
 5 quality in a residing cell deteriorates below a
   predetermined threshold.
              (Item 4)
             The user apparatus as described in item 1,
   wherein the predetermined notification trigger is to
10 receive configuration information of a measurement
   gap from the first base station or the second base
   station.
              (Item 5)
             The user apparatus as described in any one
15 of items 1-4,   including measurement control means
   configured to receive configuration information of a
   measurement gap from the first base station or the
   second base station, to calculate a measurement gap
   for the first base station based on the
20 configuration information, to calculate a
   measurement gap for the second base station based on
   the configuration information and the time
   difference information, and to regard, for each
   calculated measurement gap, a predetermined period
25 before and after the measurement gap as a
   measurement gap.
              (Item 6)
             The user apparatus as described in any one
   of items 1-4, including measurement control means
30 configured to receive configuration information of a
   measurement gap from the first base station or the
   second base station, to calculate a measurement gap
   for the first base station based on the
   configuration information, to obtain an absolute
35 time of the measurement gap, and to calculate a
   measurement gap for the second base station based on
   the absolute time.

                            -40
              (Item 7)
             The user apparatus as described in any one
   of items 1-4, wherein the time difference
   information is configuration information that is
 5 used, in the second base station, for calculating a
   measurement gap that is obtained by correcting the
   time difference from the measurement gap for the
   first base station.
              (Item 8)
10           A base station used as a second base
   station in a mobile communication system including a
   first base station and the second base station that
   communicate with a user apparatus by an inter-base
   station carrier aggregation, including:
15           reception means configured to receive,
   from the user apparatus or the first base station,
   time difference information on a time difference
   between a subframe in the first base station and a
   subframe in the second base station; and
20           measurement control means configured to
   receive configuration information of a measurement
   gap from the user apparatus or the first base
   station, to calculate a measurement gap for the base
   station in the user apparatus based on the
25 configuration information and the time difference
   information, and to regard a predetermined period
   before and after the measurement gap as a
   measurement gap.
              (Item 9)
30           A base station used as a second base
   station in a mobile communication system including a
   first base station and the second base station that
   communicate with a user apparatus by an inter-base
   station carrier aggregation, including:
35           reception means configured to receive,
   from the user apparatus or the first base station,
   time difference information on a time difference

                            -41
   between a subframe in the first base station and a
   subframe in the second base station; and
             measurement control means configured to
   calculate an absolute time of a measurement gap for
 5 the first base station in the user apparatus based
   on configuration information of the measurement gap
   and the time difference information received by the
   reception means, and to calculate a measurement gap
   for the base station in the user apparatus based on
10 the absolute time.
              (Item 10)
             A time difference information notification
   method executed by a user apparatus for use in a
   mobile communication system including a first base
15 station and a second base station that communicate
   with the user apparatus by inter-base station
   carrier aggregation, comprising:
             a measurement step of measuring a time
   difference between a subframe in the first base
20 station and a subframe in the second base station;
   and
             a notification step of, when detecting a
   predetermined notification trigger, notifying the
   first base station or the second base station of
25 time difference information on the time difference
   measured by the measurement step.
             The functional configuration of the user
   apparatus described in the present embodiment may be
   realized, in the user apparatus UE including a CPU
30 and a memory, by executing a program by the CPU
   (processor), or may be realized by hardware such as
   hardware circuits including logics of processing
   described in the present embodiment, or may be
   configured by coexistence of a program and hardware.
35           The functional configuration of the base
   station described in the present embodiment may be
   realized, in the base station eNB including a CPU

                             -42
   and a memory, by executing a program by the CPU
    (processor), or may be realized by hardware such as
   hardware circuits including logics of processing
   described in the present embodiment, or may be
 5 configured by coexistence of a program and hardware.
              In the above, the embodiment of the
   present invention has been explained.    However, the
   disclosed invention is not limited to the embodiment.
   Those skilled in the art will conceive of various
10 modified examples, corrected examples, alternative
   examples, substituted examples, and the like.    While
   specific numerical value examples are used to
   facilitate understanding of the present invention,
   such numerical values are merely examples, and any
15 appropriate value may be used unless specified
   otherwise.   Classification into each item in the
   description is not essential in the present
   invention, and features described in two or more
   items may be combined and used as necessary.
20 Subject matter described in an item may be applied
   to subject matter described in another item
    (provided that they do not contradict).
              It is not always true that the boundaries
   of the functional units or the processing units in
25 the functional block diagram correspond to
   boundaries of physical components.   The operations
   by the plural functional units may be physically
   performed by a single component.   Alternatively, the
   operations by the single functional unit may be
30 physically performed by plural components.
              For convenience of explanation, the user
   apparatus and the base station have been explained
   by using functional block diagrams.   However, such
   an apparatus may be implemented in hardware,
35 software, or a combination thereof.
              The software that operates according to
   the present invention may be stored in any proper

                             -43
   storage medium such as a Random Access Memory   (RAM),
   a flash memory, a Read Only Memory   (ROM), an EPROM,
   an EEPROM, a register, a hard disk   (HDD), a
   removable disk, a CD-ROM, a database, a server and
 5 the like.
              The present invention is not limited to
   the above-mentioned embodiment and is intended to
   include various variations, modifications,
   alterations, substitutions and so on without
10 departing from the spirit of the present invention.
              The present international patent
   application claims priority based on Japanese patent
   application No. 2014-124835, filed in the JPO on
   June 17,  2014, and the entire contents of the
15 Japanese patent application No. 2014-124835 are
   incorporated herein by reference.
   DESCRIPTION OF REFERENCE SIGNS
   UE user apparatus
20 MeNB, SeNB base station
   101 DL signal reception unit
   102 UL signal transmission unit
   103 DC/CA management unit
   104 measurement control unit
25 105 difference measurement unit
   106 difference information notification unit
   201 DL signal transmission unit
   202 UL signal reception unit
   203 DC/CA management unit
30 204 measurement control unit
   205 scheduling unit
   206 difference information obtaining unit
   207 inter-base station communication unit
35

                                                    44
CLAIMS
1.       A user apparatus comprising:
      measurement means configured to measure a time difference between a frame in a first
base station and a frame in a second base station; and
      notification means configured, when detecting a predetermined notification trigger that is
specified by a received message, to notify the first base station or the second base station of time
difference information on the time difference measured by the measurement means.
2.       A user apparatus, comprising:
      reception means configured to receive configuration information of a measurement gap
from a first base station or a second base station; and
      measurement control means configured to configure a measurement gap for the first base
station, and to configure subframes that overlap with subframes that become the measurement
gap for the first base station as a measurement gap for the second base station,
      wherein the measurement control means is configured to calculate the measurement gap
for the first base station, to obtain an absolute time of the measurement gap, and to calculate the
measurement gap for the second base station based on the absolute time.
3.       A base station used as a second base station in a mobile communication system
including a first base station and the second base station, comprising:
      reception means configured to receive, from a user apparatus or the first base station, time
difference information on a time difference between a subframe in the first base station
and a subframe in the second base station; and
      measurement control means configured to calculate an absolute time of a measurement
gap for the first base station in the user apparatus based on the time difference information
received by the reception means, and to calculate a measurement gap for the base station in the
user apparatus based on the absolute time.
4.       A time difference information notification method executed by a user apparatus,
comprising:
       a measurement step of measuring a time difference between a frame in a first base station
and a frame in a second base station; and
       a notification step of, when detecting a predetermined notification trigger that is specified

                                                45
by a received message, notifying the first base station or the second base station of time
difference information on the time difference measured by the measurement step.
                                     NTT DOCOMO, INC.
                 Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                 SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           7/19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           8/19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           9/19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           10/19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           11/19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           12/19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           13/19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           14/19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           15/19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           16/19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           17/19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           18/19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           19/19

