                                             ABSTRACT
     The present invention relates to constructed wetlands, and more particularly to a biological
module and an assembled subsurface flow wetland system using the same. The assembled
subsurface flow wetland system comprises a biological module assembly, a water inlet distribution
system, and a water outlet system. The present invention completely changes the traditional wetland
structure, effectively improves the purification efficiency of the sewage of the wetland, and reduces
the construction, operation and maintenance cost of the wetland.

                          1/1
                      Drawings
                 41 1-2     1     1-3      2
    4-3                                        31
0       0      00       0 0       0   0.     o
      000      0
                 0  00
                        030    00     0 0'
     0    0    0    0000              00.
              o oo                    Q QQ0       3-2
  o    0    0      00         0          o
         00     00000
          000      0 00   0 000~:
                     't     1-3-1
                  421-3-21-1
                         Fig. 1
                              1-5
                                  1-4
                      Fig. 2

BIOLOGICAL MODULE AND ASSEMBLED SUBSURFACE FLOW WETLAND SYSTEM
USING THE SAME
                                    FIELD OF THE INVENTION
      [0001] The present invention relates to constructed wetlands, and more particularly to a
biological module and an assembled subsurface flow wetland system using the biological module.
                                 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
      [0002] Constructed wetland is a composite system formed by fillers (substrate), plants and
microorganisms. Wastewater and sludge are added to the system in a controlled manner. As the
wastewater and sludge flow through the system in a certain direction, they are treated by the
physical, chemical and biological actions of soil, artificial medium, plants and microorganisms.
Pollutants are effectively purified through filtration, absorption, co-precipitation, ion exchange,
plant absorption and microbial decomposition, while plant growth and yield are promoted through
the biogeochemical cycles of nutrients and water, detoxifying wastewater and turning it into a
resource.    The   mechanisms      involved    mainly    comprise    absorption,    retention,  filtration,
oxidation-reduction, precipitation, microbial decomposition, transformation, plant shade, residue
accumulation, evaporation and nutrient absorption, and actions of various animals. Depending on
the direction of effluent flow, there are three types of constructed wetlands, i.e. surface flow wetland,
horizontal subsurface flow wetland and vertical subsurface flow wetland. Currently, constructed
wetlands are paved with filters such as pebble, gravel and cinder, and aquatic plants such as reed,
calamus and arrowroot are planted over the wetlands. Flowing horizontally from the inlet,
wastewater passes through gravel, medium and plant roots towards the outlet, achieving the purpose
of purification. Although subsurface flow wetlands provide a high rate of purification, they have the
following disadvantages: (1) As filters used comprise of rocks and gravels of different diameters,
those with smaller diameters often drop to the mid and bottom layers during operation, causing
changes to the porosity of the wetland, leading to sedimentation and blockage, thus reducing the
lifespan and purification efficiency of the wetlands. (2) When constructing such wetlands, filters
must be graded and selected carefully as any imprecision can cause a change in the grade of filters,
reducing the purification effect. (3) Construction of such wetlands requires comparatively more
manpower and resources, as well as greater construction requirements and maintenance costs. (4)
Purification efficiency tends to be low and purification effect varies for different effluents.
Addressing the above deficiencies, this invention has combined biological modules with their
subsurface flow wetland system. The biological modules are formed by a combination of specific
structure, size, ratio, pore structure, porosity and planting holes. The biological modules may be
                                                     1

configured to meet the requirements of specific subsurface flow wetland, including planting aquatic
plants on the biological modules, installing an inlet pipe and a flow distribution area in the inlet end,
and installing a leakage pipe and an overflow pipe in the outlet end. Such biological modules may
be freely combined and installed, and different plants can be planted, in accordance with wastewater
treatment    requirements   of different   subsurface    flow wetlands.    Structural   and   functional
characteristics are maintained during operation, completely transforming the structure of traditional
wetlands, effectively increasing purification efficiency while decreasing construction, operation and
maintenance costs.
                                SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
      [0003] The primary object of the present invention is to provide a biological module and an
assembled subsurface flow wetland system using the biological module, which completely changes
the traditional wetland structure, effectively improves the purification efficiency of the sewage of
the wetland, and reduces the construction, operation and maintenance cost of the wetland.
      [0004] To solve the above technical problems, the present invention is implemented by the
following technical solutions:
      [0005] According to one aspect of the present invention, a biological module is provided. The
biological module has a rectangular shape. Middle portions of four sides of the biological module
are provided with convex portions or concave portions. The biological module is connected to
another biological module through the concave portions and the convex portions. The biological
module has a through planting hole. The planting hole including a large planting hole located in a
middle of the biological module and a plurality of small planting holes arranged in a matrix. The
biological module is provided with three transverse guide holes and three longitudinal guide holes.
The three transverse guide holes and the three longitudinal guide holes communicate with the
planting hole.
      [0006] Preferably, each of the convex portions is a trapezoidal configuration, and the concave
portions correspond in shape to the convex portions. The trapezoidal configuration of the convex
portions and the concave portions is more able to withstand the impact of water flow and more
suitable for a slope.
      [0007] Preferably, the biological module has a ratio of 1:1:0.3-0.5 in length, width and height.
      [0008] Preferably, the transverse guide holes and the longitudinal guide holes each have a
diameter of 2-4cm.
                                                    2

      [0009] Preferably, the large planting hole has a diameter of 10-12cm, and the small planting
holes each have a diameter of 4-6cm.
      [0010] Preferably, the biological module has a porosity of 35-40%.
      [0011] According to another aspect of the present invention, an assembled subsurface flow
wetland system using the aforesaid biological module is provided. The subsurface flow wetland
comprises a biological module assembly, a water inlet distribution system, and a water outlet system.
The biological module assembly comprises a plurality of biological modules. The biological
modules is spliced together through the concave portions and the convex portions and arranged in
two layers. One end of the biological module assembly is connected to the water inlet distribution
system. The water inlet distribution system includes a flow distribution area and a water inlet pipe.
One end of the flow distribution area is directly connected to the biological module assembly.
Another end of the flow distribution area is provided with the water inlet pipe. The water inlet pipe
is evenly drilled with a plurality of water inlet holes corresponding to a surface of the flow
distribution area. The flow distribution area tends to stabilize the flow of water into the biological
module assembly. Another end of the biological module assembly is connected to the water outlet
system. The water outlet system includes an overflow pipe and a plurality of leakage pipes. The
leakage pipes are connected to a side of the overflow pipe. The leakage pipes are in communication
with the overflow pipe. A bottom of each of the leakage pipes is vertically and uniformly drilled
with a plurality of perforations.
      [0012] Preferably, the water inlet pipe and the overflow pipe each have an inner diameter of
20-25cm.
      [0013] Preferably, a total area of the water inlet holes is 1.2-1.8 times of a cross-section of the
water inlet pipe, and a total area of the perforations is 2-3 times as large as the leakage pipe.
      [0014] Preferably, the flow distribution area has a width of 1.5-2m. The flow distribution area
is paved with pebbles each having a diameter of 4-6cm or hollow blocks each having a porosity of
50-55%.
      [0015] The beneficial effects of the present invention are described below.
     1) It can completely change the traditional wetland structure.
     2) It effectively improves the purification efficiency of the sewage of the wetland.
     3) It reduces the construction, operation and maintenance cost of the wetland.
                                                     3

     4) The overall structure is simple and easy to implement.
     5) It is convenient for control and safe for use.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
      [0016] FIG. 1 is a top view of an assembled subsurface flow wetland system using biological
modules in accordance with the present invention; and
      [0017] FIG. 2 is a perspective view of a biological module in accordance with the present
invention.
              DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
      [0018] Embodiments of the present invention will now be described, by way of example only,
with reference to the accompanying drawings.
      [0019] The present invention discloses a biological module 1. The biological module 1 has a
rectangular shape. The middle portions of four sides of the biological module 1 are provided with
convex portions 1-1 or concave portions 1-2. The biological module 1 is connected to another
biological module 1 through the concave portions and the convex portions. The biological module 1
has a through planting hole 1-3. The planting hole 1-3 includes a large planting hole 1-3-1 located
in the middle of the biological module 1 and a plurality of small planting holes 1-3-2 arranged in a
matrix. The biological module 1 is provided with three transverse guide holes 1-4 and three
longitudinal guide holes 1-5. The three transverse guide holes 1-4 and the three longitudinal guide
holes 1-5 communicate with the planting hole 1-3.
      [0020] The convex portion 1-1 is a trapezoidal configuration, having a height of 5cm, a
bottom length of 25cm, a top length of 20cm, upper and lower base angles of 120 degrees. The
concave portion 1-2 corresponds in shape to the convex portion 1-1.
      [0021] The biological module 1 has a length of 50cm, a width of 50cm, and a height of 35cm.
      [0022] The transverse guide holes 1-4 and the longitudinal guide holes 1-5 each have a
diameter of 2cm.
      [0023] The large planting hole 1-3-1 has a diameter of 10-12cm. The small planting holes
1-3-2 each have a diameter of 4cm.
      [0024] The porosity of the biological module 1 is 35%.
                                                     4

      [0025] An assembled subsurface flow wetland system comprises a biological module
assembly 2, a water inlet distribution system 3, and a water outlet system 4.
      [0026] The biological module assembly comprises a plurality of biological modules 1. The
biological modules 1 are spliced together through the concave portions 1-2 and the convex portions
1-1 and arranged in two layers.
      [0027] One end of the biological module assembly is connected to the water inlet distribution
system 3. The water inlet distribution system 3 includes a flow distribution area 3-1 and a water
inlet pipe 3-2. One end of the flow distribution area 3-1 is directly connected to the biological
module assembly, and another end of the flow distribution area 3-1 is provided with the water inlet
pipe 3-2. The water inlet pipe 3-2 is evenly drilled with a plurality of water inlet holes 3-3
corresponding to the surface of the flow distribution area.
      [0028] Another end of the biological module assembly is connected to the water outlet system
4. The water outlet system 4 includes an overflow pipe 4-1 and a plurality of leakage pipes 4-2. The
leakage pipes 4-2 are connected to a side of the overflow pipe 4-1. The leakage pipes 4-2 are in
communication with the overflow pipe 4-1. The bottom of each leakage pipe 4-2 is vertically and
uniformly drilled with a plurality of perforations.
      [0029] The water inlet pipe 3-2 and the overflow pipe 4-1 each have an inner diameter of
20cm.
      [0030] The total area of the water inlet holes 3-3 is 1.4 times of the cross-section of the water
inlet pipe 3-2. The total area of the perforations is two times as large as the leakage pipe 4-2.
      [0031] The flow distribution area 3-1 has a width of 1.5m. The flow distribution area 3-1 is
paved with pebbles each having a diameter of 4cm.
      [0032] The principle of the present invention is described below. The biological module
assembly is composed of the biological modules. The internal transverse guide holes and the
longitudinal guide holes are respectively communicated with the planting holes to form the internal
flow channels of the biological module assembly. When the water enters the water inlet pipe, the
water flows through the water inlet holes to the flow distribution area. Through the flow distribution
area, the water can flow evenly into the flow channels of the biological module assembly. The water
passes through the biological modules of the biological module assembly for the growth of aquatic
plants grown in the planting holes. Finally, the water is drained from the other side, the outlet is
                                                     5

provided with the water outlet system. The outlet system is provided with perforations, which is
beneficial to reduce water pressure.
      [0033] Although particular embodiments of the present invention have been described in
detail for purposes of illustration, various modifications and enhancements may be made without
departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Accordingly, the present invention is
not to be limited except as by the appended claims.
                                                  6

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
     1. A biological module (1), characterized by: the biological module (1) having a rectangular
shape, middle portions of four sides of the biological module (1) being provided with convex
portions (1-1)   or concave portions (1-2), the biological module (1) being connected to another
biological module (1) through the concave portions (1-2) and the convex portions (1-1);
     the biological module (1) having a through planting hole (1-3), the planting hole (1-3) including
a large planting hole (1-3-1) located in a middle of the biological module (1) and a plurality of small
planting holes (1-3-2) arranged in a matrix, the biological module (1) being provided with three
transverse guide holes (1-4) and three longitudinal guide holes (1-5), the three transverse guide
holes (1-4) and the three longitudinal guide holes (1-5) communicating with the planting hole (1-3).
     2. The biological module (1) as claimed in claim 1, wherein each of the convex portions (1-1) is
a trapezoidal configuration, and the concave portions (1-2) corresponds in shape to the convex
portions (1-1).
     3. The biological module (1) as claimed in claim 1, the biological module (1) has a ratio of
1:1:0.3-0.5 in length, width and height.
     4. The biological module (1) as claimed in claim 1, wherein the transverse guide holes (1-4) and
the longitudinal guide holes (1-5) each have a diameter of 2-4cm.
     5. The biological module (1) as claimed in claim 1, wherein the large planting hole (1-3-1) has a
diameter of 10-12cm, and the small planting holes (1-3-2) each have a diameter of 4-6cm.
     6. The biological module (1) as claimed in claim 1, wherein the biological module (1) has a
porosity of 35-40%.
     7. An assembled subsurface flow wetland system using the biological module as claimed in
claim 1, comprising a biological module assembly (2), a water inlet distribution system (3), and a
water outlet system (4);
     the biological module assembly comprising a plurality of biological modules (1), the biological
modules (1) being spliced together through the concave portions (1-2) and the convex portions (1-1)
and arranged in two layers;
                                                    7

     one end of the biological module assembly being connected to the water inlet distribution
system (3), the water inlet distribution system (3) including a flow distribution area (3-1) and a
water inlet pipe (3-2), one end of the flow distribution area (3-1) being directly connected to the
biological module assembly, another end of the flow distribution area (3-1) being provided with the
water inlet pipe (3-2), the water inlet pipe (3-2) being evenly drilled with a plurality of water inlet
holes (3-3) corresponding to a surface of the flow distribution area;
     another end of the biological module assembly being connected to the water outlet system (4),
the water outlet system (4) including an overflow pipe (4-1) and a plurality of leakage pipes (4-2),
the leakage pipes (4-2) being connected to a side of the overflow pipe (4-1), the leakage pipes (4-2)
being in communication with the overflow pipe (4-1), a bottom of each of the leakage pipes (4-2)
being vertically and uniformly drilled with a plurality of perforations.
     8. The assembled subsurface flow wetland system as claimed in claim 7, wherein the water inlet
pipe (3-2) and the overflow pipe (4-1) each have an inner diameter of 20-25cm.
     9. The assembled subsurface flow wetland system as claimed in claim 7, wherein a total area of
the water inlet holes (3-3) is 1.2-1.8 times of a cross-section of the water inlet pipe (3-2), and a total
area of the perforations is 2-3 times as large as the leakage pipe (4-2).
     10. The assembled subsurface flow wetland system as claimed in claim 7, wherein the flow
distribution area (3-1) has a width of 1.5-2m, and the flow distribution area (3-1) is paved with
pebbles each having a diameter of 4-6cm or hollow blocks each having a porosity of 50-55%.
                                                     8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/1

