ABSTRACT
      A far-end editing card printing system includes a card printer for printing cards having a
specific size.  The card printer includes a transformer for transferring instructions into machine
codes for instructing a printing unit of the card printer to print cards with predetermine drawings or
texts on cards; A layout editor installed on the electronic computer device; the layout editor causing
a user to input printing instructions or layout instructions to edit a layout of a card.    The layout
editor may be installed on an electronic computer device or a cloud device, and an APP is installed
on a handset to be connected to the layout editor so that a user may edit the instructions directly on
the APP, or the layout editor is installed on the handset directly.

1/4
    0      CD
              C
        0  CD
              0
      0   CD.

                            FAR-END EDITING CARD PRINTING SYSTEM
FIELD OF INVENTION
      The present invention relates to card printers, and in particular to a far-end editing card
printing system.
BACKGROUND OF INVENTION
      In the prior art, a card printer serves for printing cards which have a specific size.    The cards
may be, for example, a name card, a debit card, or other electronic cards, which have specific
formats and size.     The card printer includes a transformer for transferring instructions into machine
codes for instructing a printing unit of the card printer to print cards with desired drawings or texts
on the card.     The electronic computer device is for example, a computer or a notebook computer.
      In generally, a layout editor is installed on the electronic computer device.     When the layout
editor is installed on the electronic computer device, a user may operate the layout editor through an
I/O device (input / output device) for inputting printing instructions or layout instructions so as to
edit a layout of a card and printing the cards based on the printing instructions.            The layout
instructions and printing instructions are transferred to the card printer through the transceiver of the
electronic computer device.      The transceiver of the card printer will receive these instructions and
then transfers these instructions to the transformer of the card printer so as to transfer the
instructions into codes acceptable by the printing unit.
      However, in above mentioned prior art card printer, the operator must move to a location
having the electronic computer device or carry a notebook or a flat computer, but this is
inconvenient.     However, as we know that the handsets are well known and widely carried by
people and thus inventor of the present invention desires to improve the prior art defect in operation
of a card printer by using the function of a handset.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
      To improve above defects in the prior art, the present invention provides a far-end editing card
printing system includes a card printer for printing cards having a specific size.       The card printer
includes a transformer for transferring instructions into machine codes for instructing a printing unit
of the card printer to print cards with predetermine drawings or texts on cards; A layout editor

installed on the electronic computer device; the layout editor causing a user to input printing
instructions or layout instructions through an I/O device of the electronic computer device to edit a
layout of a card and thus causing the printing unit to print the cards based on the layout and printing
instructions.    The layout editor may be installed on an electronic computer device or a cloud
device, and an APP is installed on a handset to be connected to the layout editor so that a user may
edit the instructions directly on the APP, or the layout editor is installed on the handset directly.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS:
       Fig. 1 is a schematic view showing a prior art card printing system.
       Fig. 2 is a structural block diagram showing the function block diagram of the first
embodiment of the invention
       Fig. 3 shows another example for the diagram illustrated in Fig. 2.
       Fig. 4 is a structural block diagram showing the function block diagram of the second
embodiment of the present invention.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
       With reference to Figs. 2 and 3, the first embodiment about a card printing system with a
function of far-end edition is illustrated.   The present invention includes the following elements.
       A card printer 10, as illustrated in Fig. 2, serves for printing  cards which have a specific size.
The cards may be, for example, a name card, a debit card, or other electronic cards, which have
specific formats and size.
       The card printer 10 includes the following elements.
       A transformer 11 serves for transferring instructions into machine codes for instructing a
printing unit 13 of the card printer 10 to print cards with desired drawings or texts on the card.
       A transceiver 12 serves to signally connect with a succeeding electronic computer device 100
(as illustrated in Fig. 2) or a cloud device 150 (as illustrated in Fig. 3).    The electronic computer
device 100 is for example, a computer or a notebook computer.
       A layout editor 20 is installed on the electronic computer device 100 or a cloud device 150.
When the layout editor 20 is installed on the electronic computer device 100, a user may operate the
layout editor 20 through an I/O device 102 (input / output device) for inputting printing instructions
or layout instructions so as to edit a layout of a card and printing the cards based on the printing
instructions.

      If the layout editor 20 is installed on a cloud device 150, the user must connect to the layout
editor 20 through an electronic computer device 100 for editing layout instructions and printing
instructions.
      The layout instructions and printing instructions are transferred to the card printer 10 through
the transceiver 101 of the electronic computer device 100 or the cloud device 150.       The transceiver
12 of the card printer 10 will receive these instructions and then transfers these instructions to the
transformer 11 of card printer 10 so as to transfer the instructions into codes acceptable by the
printing unit 13.
      A handset end application program 30 (APP) is built in a handset 200.        The APP 30 may be
downloaded to the handset 200.        The APP 30 is connected to the electronic computer device 100
or the cloud device 150 through a transceiver 201 of the handset 200.        The transceiver 201 of the
handset 200 is connected to the electronic computer device 100 or the cloud device 150 through a
wireless network which may be Wi-Fi, NFC, blue tooth, 3G, 4G, and 5G, etc.
      The APP provides functions which cause that a user may input layout instructions or printing
instructions of cards from the I/O device 202 of the handset 200.           The layout instructions and
printing instructions are transferred from the transceiver 202 of handset 200 to the transceiver 101
of the electronic computer device 100 or cloud device 150 through the network and then transferred
to the layout editor 20 therein.
      Then the layout editor 20 transfers the instructions to transformer 11 of the card printer 10 so
as to transfer the instructions into the codes which are acceptable by the printing unit 13 of the card
printer 10 for print the cards according to the layout instructions and the printing instructions.
      In the present invention, edition of the layout instructions and printing instructions originally
edited by the layout editor 20 in the electronic computer device 100 or in the cloud device 150 is
transferred to the APP 30 in the handset 200.      Therefore, a user may edit these instructions in a far
end.
      Fig.4 shows the second embodiment of embodiment.           In this embodiment, the function of the
card printer 10 is identical to those described in above embodiment, and thus the details thereof will
not be further described herein.     Only those difference therebetween is disclosed.
      A layout editor 20 having a form of an application program of a handset is installed in a
handset 200. The layout editor 20 causes the user can input layout instructions and printing
instructions from an I/O device 202 of the handset 200.
      The layout instructions and printing instructions are transferred to the card printer 10 through
the transceiver 202 of the handset 200. Then the transformer 11 within the card printer 10 will
transfer these instructions into codes which are acceptable by the printing unit 13 so as to print

desired drawings or texts on cards according to these instructions.
      In this embodiment, a user may edit desired instructions for printing cards on the card printer
10 at any space and time without being limited by the location of the electronic computer device
100.   The user is unnecessary to carry a computer or a notebook computer.
      The present invention is thus described, it will be obvious that the same may be varied in
many ways.     Such variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the spirit and scope of the
present invention, and all such modifications as would be obvious to one skilled in the art are
intended to be included within the scope of the following claims.

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
      1. A far-end editing card printing system, comprising:
      a card printer for printing cards having a specific size; comprising: a transformer for
transferring instructions into machine codes for instructing a printing unit of the card printer to print
cards with predetermine drawings or texts on cards; a transceiver signally connected with an
electronic computer device;
       a layout editor installed on the electronic computer device or a cloud device; the layout editor
causing a user to input printing instructions or layout instructions through an I/O device of the
electronic computer device or an I/O device connected to the cloud device to edit a layout of a card
and thus causing the printing unit to print the cards based on the layout and printing instructions;
wherein the layout instructions and printing instructions is transferred to the card printer through the
transceiver of the electronic computer device; the transceiver of the card printer will receive these
instructions and then transfers these instructions to the transformer of the card printer so as to
transfer the instructions into codes acceptable by the printing unit;
       a handset end application program (APP) built in a handset; the APP being connected to the
electronic computer device through a transceiver of the handset; the transceiver of the handset being
connected to the electronic computer device through a wireless network;
       wherein the APP provides functions causing that a user can input layout instructions or
printing instructions of cards from the I/O device of the handset; the layout instructions and printing
instructions are transferred from the transceiver of handset to the transceiver of the electronic
computer device through the network and then transferred to the layout editor therein; and then the
layout editor transfers the instructions to transformer of the card printer so as to transfer the
instructions into the codes which are acceptable by the printing unit of the card printer.
       2. The system of claim 1, wherein the card is selected from a name card, a debit card, and
electronic cards which have specific formats and size.
       3. The system of claim 1, wherein the electronic computer device is selected from a computer,
a flat computer and a notebook computer.
       4. A far-end editing card printing system, comprising:

      a card printer for printing cards having a specific size; comprising: a transformer for
transferring instructions into machine codes for instructing a printing unit of the card printer to print
cards with predetermine drawings or texts on cards; a transceiver signally connected with an
electronic computer device; the electronic computer device ;
      a layout editor having a form of an application program of a handset being installed in a
handset; the layout editor causing the user can input layout instructions and printing instructions
from an I/O device of the handset;
      wherein the layout instructions and printing instructions are transferred to the card printer
through the transceiver of the handset; and then the transformer within the card printer will transfer
these instructions into codes which are acceptable by the printing unit so as to print desired
drawings or texts on cards according to these instructions.
      5. The system of claim 6, wherein the card is selected from a name card, a debit card, and
electronic cards which have specific formats and size.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/4

