   SYNTHETIC PEPTIDE-BASED MARKER VACCINE AND DIAGNOSTIC SYSTEM
 FOR EFFECTIVE CONTROL OF PORCINE REPRODUCTIVE AND RESPIRATORY
                                      SYNDROME (PRRS)
ABSTRACT
A peptide-based marker vaccine against Porcine Reproductive Syndrome (PRRS) and a set of
immunodiagnostic tests for the prevention, monitoring and control of Porcine Reproductive
Syndrome Virus (PRRSV) are disclosed. Vaccine formulations according to various
embodiments of the invention contain a mixture of peptides derived from PRRSV GP2, GP3,
GP4, or GP5 proteins; each peptide individually contains a B cell (PRRSV neutralizing/receptor
binding epitope which is individually linked to an artificial T helper epitope for enhancement of
the respective peptide's immunogenicity; and which can be supplemented with a mixture of
peptides representing the T helper epitopes derived from the PRRSV GP4, GP5, M and
Nucleocapside proteins to provide cell mediated immunity. Such viral peptide compositions are
prepared in an acceptable delivery system as vaccine formulations and can provide cross
protection of PRRSV antibody free pigs from infection upon PRRSV challenge.

   SYNTHETIC PEPTIDE-BASED MARKER VACCINE AND DIAGNOSTIC SYSTEM
 FOR EFFECTIVE CONTROL OF PORCINE REPRODUCTIVE AND RESPIRATORY
                                         SYNDROME (PRRS)
CROSSREFERENCE
       The present application claims priority to PCT/US2011/068133, filed 30 December 2011,
which is incorporated by reference in its entirety. The present application is a divisional application of
AU 2011384799, which is the Australian National Phase application of PCT/US2011/068133. The
entire content of each of these applications are hereby incorporated herein by reference.
 FIELD OF THE INVENTION
          This disclosure relates to a peptide-based marker vaccine against Porcine Reproductive
 and Respiratory Syndrome (PRRS) and a set of immunodiagnostic tests for the monitoring and
 control of Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome Virus (PRRSV).
 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
          Porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV) was discovered in the late
  1980s as the cause of severe reproductive failure in sows and gilts and is one of the most
 important pathogens in the swine industry. Infection of sows and gilts can lead to late term
 abortion, early farrowing and the birth of weak-born piglets, while infected boars show
 decreased sperm quality and virus excretion in the semen.
          In addition, PRRSV is also found to be involved in the porcine respiratory disease
 complex in young pigs, causing respiratory problems in combination with secondary viral and
 bacterial infections. The virus shows a restricted in vivo cell tropism with alveolar macrophages
 being the main target cell.
           PRRSV is an enveloped positive single-stranded RNA virus of the family Arteriviridae
   and order Nidovirales (1) with approximately 15kb in length, consisting of 9 open reading
   frames (ORFs). The virion consists of a nucleocapsid core that is built up by nucleocapsid
   protein (encoded by open reading frame 7, ORF7) in association with the viral RNA. The
   nucleocapsid is surrounded by a lipid envelope in which six structural proteins are embedded: the
   glycoproteins GP2 (ORF2a), GP3 (ORF3), GP4 (ORF4) and GP5 (ORF5), and the non
   glycosylated proteins M (ORF6) and E (ORF2b). GP5 and M are considered to be the most
   abundant proteins in the envelope, while the other envelope proteins are present in lower
   amounts. The ORFla and ORFlb situated at the 5' end of the genome encode non-structural
   proteins.

        Similar to many other RNA viruses, PRRSV shows a large genetic variability, which is
reflected in variation in virulence, interaction with the immune system and antigenic properties
of viral proteins. Virus strains are usually classified within a European (EU) and a North
American (NA) genotype, based on ORF5 and/or ORF7 sequences, although a high degree of
variability exists within genotypes.
        PRRSV has acquired a number of properties that allow escape from the host's protective
immunity. These properties are late production of virus-specific antibodies after one or two
weeks upon infection; with such antibodies being unable to reduce in vitro virus replication in
primary porcine alveolar macrophages (PAM); and with the much needed virus-neutralizing
antibodies appearing at low levels around three to four weeks after infection thus too late to
influence the acute phase of viremia (1, 2).
        Despite this weak virus-neutralizing antibody response, the presence of sufficient
amounts of such virus-neutralizing antibodies at the onset of infection can offer protection
against virus replication in the lungs, viremia and transplacental spread of the virus, indicating
that PRRSV-specific neutralizing antibodies can contribute in part to protective immunity (2,3).
        The PRRS viremia was found in the blood of infected pigs with neutralizing antibodies,
indicating the humoral immune response alone did not confer solid protection. The cell-mediated
immunity (CMI) has been shown to play an important role in clearing PRRSV (4). The
development of the CMI response in infected pigs, as determined by lymphocyte blastogenesis
and adaptive cytokine production (e.g. Interferon gamma; IFN-gamma) was found delayed and
became detectable in the in vitro recall response of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs)
around 4-8 weeks post infection, which correlated with the development of neutralizing
antibodies (5-7). The IFN-gamma plays a key role in cell-mediated immune responses against a
variety of cytopathic viral infections in animals. In PRRSV-infected pigs, the IFN-gamma
mRNA was detected in the lymph nodes, lungs and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (7).
        The search for antigenic regions across the entire PRRSV              structural proteome
representing virus-neutralizing antibody inducing B cell epitopes and IFN-gamma eliciting T cell
epitopes has been one of the most challenging topics in veterinary viral immunology over the
past two decades. Representative articles showing such epitope mapping outcome as a result of
the cumulative efforts by the global PRRSV research community are herein provided as
                                                  2

references (8-10).
        Despite the commercial availability of modified-live vaccines (MLV) as well as killed
PRRSV viral lysate vaccines, the control of PRRSV related diseases still remains problematic.
One major problem is efficacy in that PRRSV vaccines are efficacious against homologous, but
not heterologous, challenge. In addition, safety issues for the MLV have been reported in the
field. Modified live vaccines are not suitable for use in pregnant sows, gilts and in boars as
vaccination may result in shedding of vaccinal virus in semen. Modified live virus vaccines can
persist in vaccinated animals. Transmission to non-vaccinated animals and subsequent vaccine
virus-induced disease have been reported. Furthermore, there is an urgent need for the
development of a marker vaccine to allow differentiation between infected and vaccinated pigs,
thus facilitating traceability and control of PRRSV infection.
        In summary, there remains an urgent need to design immunogenic PRRSV peptides
comprising distinct functional B and T cell epitopes, that are capable of inducing protective
antibodies and cellular immune responses, as well as vaccine formulations incorporating these
designer peptides to allow for cross-protection of PRRSV strains in swine. With the availability
of these rationally designed and molecularly characterized immunogenic peptides, there is also
the need to identify antigenic peptides capable of being recognized by antibodies from infected
pigs, and to use these designer peptides to develop a set of diagnostic tests, thus a diagnostic
system, for serological identification of infected versus vaccinated animals to allow for effective
control of PRRSV infection. Finally, there is this         need to develop means for low cost
manufacture and quality control of such peptide-based marker vaccine and diagnostic system for
wide application to effectively monitor and control the PRRS disease.
References:
     1. Gorbalenya, A, et al. 2006. Nidovirales: evolving the largest RNA virus genome. Virus
        Res 117:17-37.
    2. Lopez, OJ, et al. 2007. Protection against porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome
        virus (PRRSV) infection through passive transfer of PRRSV-neutralizing antibodies is
        dose dependent. Clin Vaccine Immunol 14:269-75.
                                                  3

3.  Lopez, OJ, and Osorio FA. 2004. Role of neutralizing antibodies in PRRSV protective
    immunity. Vet Immunol Immunopathol 102:155-63.
4. Mateu, E., Diaz, I, 2008. The challenge of PRRS immunology. Vet. J. 177 (3), 345- 351.
5.  Bassaganya-Riera, J, et al. 2004. Impact of immunizations with porcine reproductive and
    respiratory syndrome virus on lymphoproliferative recall responses of CD8+ T cells.
    Viral Immunol. 17 : 25-37.
6. Bautista, E.M, and Molitor, T.W. 1997. Cell-mediated immunity to porcine reproductive
    and respiratory syndrome virus in swine. Viral Immunol. 10: 83-94.
7. Lopez Fuertes, L, et al. 1999. Analysis of cellular immune response in pigs recovered
    from porcine respiratory and reproductive syndrome infection. Virus Res. 64 : 33-42.
8.  Vanhee, M, et al. 2011. Characterization of antigenic regions in the porcine reproductive
    and respiratory syndrome virus by the use of peptide-specific serum antibodies. Vaccine.
    29:4794-4804.
9. Wang, YX, et al 2011. Identification of immunodominant T-cell epitopes in membrane
    protein of highly pathogenic porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus. Virus
    Research doi: 10.1016
10. Diaz, I, et al. 2009. In silico prediction and ex vivo evaluation of potential T-cell epitopes
    in glycoproteins 4 and 5 and nucleocapsid protein of genotype-I (European) of porcine
    reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus. Vaccine 27: 5603-5611.
11. Wang, CY. Artificial T helper cell epitopes as immune stimulators for synthetic peptide
    immunogens including immunogenic LHRH peptides. US 6,025,468.
12. Wang, CY. Artificial T helper cell epitopes as immune stimulators for synthetic peptide
    immunogens. US 6,713,301.
13. Wang, CY, Finstad, Connie L., Walfield, Alan M., Sia Charles, Sokoll, Kenneth K., et. al.
    Site Specific UBITh Amyloid-          Vaccine for Immunotherapy of Alzheimer's Disease.
    Vaccine, 2007: 25: 3041-3052.
                                                4

14. Wang, CY, Walfield, Alan M.      Site-specific peptide vaccines for immunotherapy and
    immunization against chronic diseases, cancer, infectious diseases, and for veterinary
    applications. (Review Article) Vaccine 2005: 23:2049-2056.
15. Hseuh, PR, Kao CL, Lee CN, Chen LK, Ho MS, Sia C, Fang XD, Lynn S, et al and Wang,
    CY. Highly Specific SARS Antibody Test for Serosurveillance. Emerg. Infect. Diseases
    2004, 10:1558-1562
16. Finstad, CL, Wang, CY, et al. Synthetic luteinizing hormone releasing hormone (LHRH)
    vaccine for effective androgen deprivation and its application to prostate cancer
    immunotheray. Vaccine 2004: 22:1300-1313
17. Wang, CY, et al. Synthetic IgE peptide vaccine for immunotherapy for allergy. Vaccine
    2003, 21:1580-1590.
18. Wang, CY, et al. Synthetic AIDS vaccine by targeting HIV receptor. Vaccine 2002, 21:
    89-97.
19. Wang, CY, et al. Effective Synthetic peptide vaccine for foot-and-mouth disease in swine.
    Vaccine. 2002, 20:2603-2610.
20. Wang, CY, et al. Synthetic Peptide-based Vaccine and Diagnostic System for Effective
    Control of FMD. Biologicals 2001, 29: 221-228.
21. Fuerst, TR, Niles EG, Studier FW, and Moss B. Eukaryotic transient-expression system
    based on recombinant vaccinia virus that synthesizes bacteriophage T7 RNA polymerase.
    Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 1986; 83:8122-8126.
22. Chen, C-M, Liu H-T, Tu C-F. Effects of PCV2 infection in a transgenic SPF pig farm in
    Taiwan. 13th AAAP Anim. Sci. Congr. September 22-26, 2008 Hanoi, Vietnam.
    Proceedings, p. 420.
23. Das, PB, et al. The Minor Envelope Glycoproteins GP2a and GP4 of Porcine
    Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome Virus Interact with the Receptor CD 163. 2010.
    J. Virol. 84:1731-1740.
24. Harlow, E, and Lane, D. Antibodies: A Laboratory Manual. Chapter 14 Immunoassays,
    pp 555-612. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, NY. 1988.
                                             5

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
        This disclosure relates to a peptide-based marker vaccine against Porcine Reproductive
and Respiratory Syndrome (PRRS) and a set of immunodiagnostic tests for the prevention,
monitoring and control of Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome Virus (PRRSV).
       Despite the available scientific information on the antigenic regions across the structural
PRRSV proteome, due to the inability of the research community to develop any successful
peptide based vaccines against infectious agents after decades of efforts, there are those who are
of the opinion that it is improbable that synthetic peptide vaccines will ever be produced for the
majority of pathogens. This inventor has learned much from the first generation biological
vaccines where a rational design approach incorporating selective PRRSV B and T cell epitopes
should allow validation and development of synthetic peptide based PRRSV vaccine(s) against
the desired viral strains and companion diagnostic tests for the monitoring and control of the
disease. It is important to recognize that the B cell neutralizing epitopes are largely
conformational and must be taken into consideration when designing those B cell epitope related
peptide immunogens. Identification and design of the relevant B antigenic epitopes will require
an understanding of the relationship between structure of the targeted molecule and its function.
Such a discipline in understanding the structure and function of a target molecule subject to
immunogen design is termed by this inventor as "functional antigenics". In addition, the immune
response is complex and multi-faceted. A vaccine against a rapidly evolving RNA virus that
exists as a quasi-species population should always aim to stimulate as many different protective
immune mechanisms as possible to minimize the risk of emergence of virus variants that escape
the host's immune system.
       Successful synthetic peptide based vaccines will comprise components that stimulate the
appropriate elements of the immune system which includes adaptive and innate immunities.
Another major hurdle in developing epitope based peptide vaccines is due in part to the non
immunogenic nature of the short length peptides representing these epitopes. In addition, there is
a need for incorporation of a large repertoire of B and T epitopes to allow universality of the
vaccine for broad cross-protection arising out of pathogen's genetic variation as well as the host's
genetic variability. With extensive efforts and experimental validation of synthetic peptide-based
vaccines and diagnostic tests against various diseases, this inventor has focused on rational
                                                  6

design of peptide immunogens mimicking antigenic sites on the native target molecule for
elicitation of antibodies for in vitro and in vivo serological and functional studies, supplemented
by suitable T cell epitopes for enhancement of the desired immunogenicity.           This has led to
optimized antigens, immunogens and vaccine formulations in each of the target diseases for
clinical and commercial applications (11-20).
          Vaccine formulations according to various embodiments of the invention contain a
mixture of peptides derived from PRRSV GP2, GP3, GP4, or GP5 proteins; each peptide
individually comprises a B cell PRRSV neutralizing/receptor binding epitope which is
individually linked to an artificial T helper epitope for enhancement of the respective peptide's
immunogenicity; and which can be supplemented with a mixture of peptides representing the T
helper epitopes derived from the PRRSV GP4, GP5, M and Nucleocapsid proteins to provide cell
mediated immunity. Such viral peptide compositions are prepared in an acceptable delivery
system as vaccine formulations and can provide cross protection of PRRSV antibody free pigs
from infection upon PRRSV challenge.
         The diagnostic system according to various embodiments of the invention contains a set
of diagnostic tests, with one test providing for two overlapping PRRSV ORF7-encoded antigenic
peptides in an ELISA immunoassay format for optimal antibody recognition from PRRSV
infected animals, and the other tests providing for GP2, GP3, GP4 and GP5 derived vaccine
target peptides in an ELISA immunoassay format for optimal antibody recognition from PRRSV
peptide vaccine immunized animals.           In combination, these diagnostic tests constitute a
diagnostic system for Differentiation of Infected from Vaccinated Animals (DIVA) thus effective
monitoring and control of the disease.
         It also relates to method for the manufacture of such a vaccine for protecting pigs against
PRRSV infection, and for the manufacture of a set of immunodiagnostic tests for DIVA, thus
allowing for effective control of the disease.
         Peptides or peptide compositions of the present invention are designed and optimized by
an extensive process of serological validation in target species for development of marker
vaccines for cross-reactivities with natural virus, cross protection of PRRSV antibody free piglets
from infection upon PRRSV challenge, and development of a set of peptide based ELISAs for
differentiation of infected from vaccinated animals.
                                                   7

        This disclosure relates to a PRRSV vaccine, comprising specifically, a peptide and a
peptide composition originating from B epitopes of PRRSV GP2, GP3, GP4 or GP5 proteins
with each peptide optionally linked to a T helper epitope to enhance the peptide's
immunogenicity so as to induce in the immunized host humoral immunity including high titers of
antibodies that are crossreactive with PRRSV.
        The peptide or peptide composition is further supplemented by additional peptides
representing T cell epitopes of PRRSV GP4, GP5, M and Nucleocapsid proteins in a vaccine
formulation to mount cell-mediated immune responses.
        Various embodiments of the invention are provided. One set of embodiments is directed
to the peptide(s) and peptide composition(s) effective as the antigens for detection of antibodies
to the nucleocapsid (NC) protein from the infected animals. A second set of the embodiments is
directed to peptide and peptide composition effective for detection of antibodies to the marker
vaccine targeted GP2, GP3, GP4 and GP5 epitopes from the vaccinated animals. These
diagnostic tests constitute a diagnostic system for DIVA thus effective control of the disease.
         There is another set of embodiments directed to peptide(s), homologues and analogues
thereof, derived from both the B and T cell epitopes of the PRRSV proteins. Such PRRSV
peptides are preferentially, but optionally, linked to an artificial combinatorial T helper epitope to
enhance their respective immunogenicity.
        In addition, in another set of embodiments are directed to vaccine formulations
comprising peptide and peptide composition from PRRSV B and T cell epitope derived peptide
immunogens to elicit both antibody responses that are crossreactive with the natural PRRSV
protein antigens and cell mediated immune responses together to protect pigs against PRRSV
infection.
        Each such designed peptide can be chemically synthesized from milligram to kilogram
scales for industrial application, and be quality controlled.
        Also provided by various embodiments of the invention are delivery vehicles and other
ingredients routinely incorporated with vaccine formulations.
                                                   8

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
Figure 1A. Illustration showing the mechanism for detecting antibodies to PRRSV GP5 protein
inside the cytoplasm of co-transfected HTK cell line cells by immunofluorescence according to
an embodiment of the invention.
Figure 1B. Immunofluorescence Assay (IFA) carried out according to the mechanism described
in Figure 1A. Co-transfected HTK cell line cells with antibodies to PRRSV GP5 protein bound
to GP5 inside the cytoplasm are detected.
Figure 2A Localization of antigenic sites on the nucleocapsid (NC) protein of PRRSV MD001
strain (Accession No. AF121131) and identification of antigenic peptide (SEQ ID NO: 1) for use
in UBI PRRSV NC ELISA for detection of antibodies to the NC protein in infected animals.
Figure 2B. Localization of antigenic sites on the nucleocapsid (NC) protein of PRRSV MD001
strain (Accession No. AF121131) and identification of antigenic peptides (SEQ ID NO. 2) for
use in UBI PRRSV NC ELISA for detection of antibodies to the NC protein in infected animals.
Figure 3. Alignments for Homologous Nucleocapsid Protein Sequences from PRRSV Strains
MDOO1 (SEQ ID No: 3), JXA1 (SEQ ID No: 4), NA(SEQ ID No: 5) and EU (SEQ ID No. 6).
Figure 4. Localization of selected B and T cell epitopes on the PRRSV ORF 2 to ORF 7 proteins
of PRRSV JXA1 strain (Accession No. AY2G2352) adapted for marker vaccine design.
Figure 5.    Seroreactivities of pig sera from different origins tested with UBI PRRSV NC    NA
ELISA.
Figure 6A.    UBI PRRSV marker vaccine formulations elicited specific high titer antibodies to
the target peptide immunogens in PRRSV infected pigs as detected and differentiated by UBI's
diagnostic system (i.e. test to detect PRRSV infected pigs and tests to detect animals received
vaccine formulations containing designer peptide immunogens derived from GP2, 3, and 4
proteins).
Figure 6B.    UBI PRRSV marker vaccine formulations elicited specific high titer antibodies to
the target peptide immunogens in PRRSV infected pigs as detected and differentiated by UBI's
diagnostic system (i.e. test to detect PRRSV infected pigs and tests to detect animals received
vaccine formulations containing designer peptide immunogens derived from GP3, 4 and 5
                                                9

proteins).
Figure 7A. Photograph showing histopathological lesions after PRRS virus challenge. Animals
from the control group with interstitial pneumonia appeared in lung, thickening of alveoli wall
by lymphocytic cells.
Figure 7B.      Photograph showing histopathological lesions after PRRS virus challenge.
Animals immunized by UBI PRRS GP5 peptide vaccine formulations. The lung maintains the
normal alveoli wall.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
        Peptide antigens can detect immunological responses and certain peptide antigens may
also stimulate immunological responses. Many peptide antigens can be used for the sensitive
and specific detection of immune responses but most often they do not by themselves act as
immunogens.     Peptide immunogens are a special class of peptide antigens that can be used to
stimulate immune responses as well as to detect them. According to one embodiment of the
invention, the peptide antigens in the PRRSV vaccine are peptide immunogens that have both B
cell (B) and T helper cell (Th) epitopes that together act to stimulate the generation of protective
immune responses, and there are also a different set of peptide antigens that are capable of
detecting immune responses to PRRSV infection.
        One method for identification of B cell epitopes relies on a set of nested and overlapping
peptides of multiple lengths, typically ranging from 20 to 60 residues or longer in length. These
longer peptides are synthesized by a laborious series of independent solid-phase peptide
syntheses. The resulting sets of nested and overlapping peptides can then be used in antibody
binding studies to identify peptides which best present immunodominant determinants, including
discontinuous conformational B cell epitopes. One embodiment of the invention provides for two
overlapping PRRSV ORF7-encoded nucleocapsid peptides with one comprises 70 amino acid
sequence (SEQ ID No: 1, also shown in Figure 2A) and another one comprises 73 amino acid
sequence (SEQ ID No: 2, also shown in Figure 2B) with each having on its own a cluster of B
cell epitopes for optimal antibody recognition.       These antigenic peptides were empirically
identified and optimized using serum samples from PRRSV-infected piglets and an ELISA
                                                 10

immunoassay format.       Any immunoassay format that can be adapted to an antibody capture
phase comprising peptide antigens, e.g., ELISA, can be used to detect and quantify antibodies
that bind to a particular fragment of a PRRSV nucleocapsid protein in a blood, serum, or plasma
sample from a PRRSV-infected pig.
         In a specific embodiment, an optimized PRRSV antigenic peptide of about 70 amino
acids (SEQ ID No: 1), which corresponds to amino acid residues 2 to 71 of a full-length PRRSV
nucleocapsid protein, and another optimized PRRSV antigenic peptide of about 73 amino acids
(SEQ ID No: 2), which corresponds to amino acid residues 51 to 123 of a full-length PRRSV
nucleocapsid protein were identified. The two peptides were combined in a mixture at an equal
ratio to constitute the most optimal antibody capture phase for the detection of antibodies to
PRRSV by ELISA in the infected pigs. These two highly antigenic peptides were both found to
have a cluster of immunodominant B cell epitopes and had the most significant and consistent
antigenicity for the PRRSV positive serum panel. The production and use of diagnostic test kits
comprising PRRSV Nucleocapsid peptides (e.g. SEQ ID No: 1 and No: 2) are within the scope
of various exemplary embodiments of the invention.
         Specific embodiments of the PRRSV antigenic peptide invention are further defined as
being immunologically functional homologues of SEQ ID Nos: 1 and 2 that have corresponding
sequences    and conformational     elements from mutant and variant       strains of PRRSV.
Homologous PRRSV antigenic peptides have amino acid residues that correlate approximately
with nucleocapsid protein positions 2 to 71 and 51 to 123 of the originating variant PRRSV
North American strains. Such homologues are readily demonstrated through sequence alignment
programs such as ClustalW (produced by Julie D. Thompson, Toby Gibson of European
Molecular Biology Laboratory, Germany and Desmond Higgins of European Bioinformatics
Institute, Cambridge, UK. Algorithmic). Figure 3 shows the alignment by ClustalW of four
antigen sequences taken from diverse strains of PRRSV MDOO1 Taiwan/99Y/AF121131 (SEQ
ID No: 3), JXA1 Beijing/06Y/EF112445 (SEQ ID No: 4), NA/NJ-a/04Y/AY37282, (SEQ ID
No:5), EU/Lena/08Y/EU 909691 (SEQ ID No: 6). The originating PRRSV strains of the
nucleocapsid homologues aligned in Figure 3 include viruses of European strains. Table 1 also
exemplifies homologues (SEQ ID No: 7 and SEQ ID No : 8) of antigenic peptides SEQ ID No:1
and SEQ ID No: 2          (North American strain/MDOO/TW/AAC98536) with EU being the
                                               11

originating   PRRSV      strain  (European  strain/08V204/Belgium/EU/GU737266).         In one
embodiment, the homologue to SEQ ID No: 1 (SEQ ID No: 7) has an amino acid sequence from
about amino acid position 2 to about amino acid position 72 of a PRRSV NC protein from the
EU strain. In another embodiment, the homologue (SEQ ID No: 8) has an amino acid sequence
from about amino acid position 52 to about amino acid position 128 of a PRRSV NC protein
from the EU strain. These two homologous peptides can similarly be combined in a mixture at
an equal ratio to constitute the most optimal antibody capture phase for the detection of
antibodies to PRRSV, preferably the European strains, by ELISA in the infected pigs.
        Homologues of the invention are further defined as having at least 50% identity to SEQ
ID No: 1 and SEQ ID No: 2. In one embodiment, the variant strain homologue (SEQ ID NO: 7)
has about 50% identity to SEQ ID No: 1. In another embodiment, the variant strain homologue
(SEQ ID NO: 8) has about 64% identity to SEQ ID No: 2.
        In addition to the antigenic peptides identified from the PRRSV NC protein useful for
detection of antibodies from serum samples of infected animals, there are antigenic regions
present on PRRSV GP2, GP3, GP4 and GP5 proteins which correspond to neutralizing and/or
receptor binding functional sites. Various peptide immunogens were designed around these
epitopic regions for assessment of their respective immunogenicity by target peptide based
ELISAs, and more importantly, for the crossreactivities of the elicited antibodies to the native
PRRSV proteins by the immunofluorescence assay (IFA) according to an embodiment of the
invention. In addition, there are well documented immunodominant T cell epitopes present on
PRRSV GP4, GP5, M and NC proteins.            Peptides from these T helper sites would trigger
lymphocyte proliferative responses in pigs leading to cytokine, including IFN-gamma,
production which plays a key role in cell-mediated immune responses against a variety of
cytopathic viral infections in animals.
        An embodiment as shown in Figure 4 illustrates the distribution and location of those
selected B and T cell epitopes of the invention on the PRRSV ORF 2 to ORF 7 encoded (GP2,
GP3, GP4, GP5, M, and N) proteins based on the sequence of PRRSV JXA1 (Accession number
AY2G2352).
        Another embodiment of the invention provides for the sequences of the four optimized
and selected PRRSV B cell epitope cluster peptides, namely GP5.3(V21-E65) (SEQ ID No:9),
                                                12

GP2 B(V111-L136) (SEQ ID No:10), GP3B (C57-C75) (SEQ ID No:11), and GP4B (C52-C69)
(SEQ ID No:12). These B cell epitope cluster are located around the sites having neutralizing
and receptor binding characteristics.
        Other embodiments of the invention provide for immunologically functional analogues of
these four PRRSV B cell epitope cluster peptides. Table 3 shows the alignments for homologous
GP5 (SEQ ID Nos: 13-15), GP2(SEQ ID Nos: 17-19), GP3(SEQ ID Nos: 21-23), and GP4(SEQ
ID Nos: 25-27) derived B epitope cluster peptide sequences with originating strains being
MD001, JXA1, NA and EU. A consensus sequence for each of the B cell epitope cluster
peptides(SEQ ID NOs: 16, 20, 24, 28) is also shown wherein the amino acids assigned to the
variable positions are those most frequently applied for those positions.
        An immunologically functional analogue of the B cell epitope cluster peptide includes
variants of SEQ ID Nos: 9, 10, 11, 12 and homologues which retain substantially the same
immunological properties as the original antigenic peptide.      For example, variants that are
functional analogues or homologues of SEQ ID No: 9 can have a conservative substitution in an
amino acid position; a change in overall charge; a covalent attachment to another moiety; or
small additions, insertions, deletions or conservative substitutions and/or any combination
thereof. Thus, antibodies that bind to a PRRSV GP5.3 B epitope (V21-E65) antigenic peptide
(e.g., SEQ ID No: 9) will also bind to the immunologically functional analogues of that PRRSV
GP5.3 B epitope antigenic peptide with substantially similar efficacy. In one embodiment, the
functional analogue has at least 40% identity to SEQ ID No: 9 or homologue. In another
embodiment, the functional analogue has at least 56% identity to SEQ ID No: 11 or homologue.
In yet another embodiment, the functional analogue has at least 72% homology to SEQ ID No:
12 or homologue. In yet another embodiment, the functional analogue has at least 80%
homology to SEQ ID No: 10 or homologue. In still another embodiment, the functional analogue
has at least 94% homology to SEQ ID No: 12 or homologue.
        In one embodiment, as shown in Table 3, immunologically functional analogues of the
PRRSV GP 5.3 B epitope cluster peptide (V21-E65) encompasses versions of PRRSV GP5.3 B
epitope cluster peptide that have been modified by conservative substitutions, and by insertions
or deletions. In this embodiment, immunologically functional analogues can be modified from
SEQ ID No: 9 or from a homologue of SEQ ID No: 9 by substitutions that are conservative.
                                                13

        Conservative substitutions are when one amino acid residue is substituted for another
amino acid residue with similar chemical properties. For example, the nonpolar (hydrophobic)
amino acids include alanine, leucine, isoleucine, valine, proline, phenylalanine, tryptophan and
methionine; the polar neutral amino acids include glycine, serine, threonine, cysteine, tyrosine,
asparagine, and glutamine; the positively charged (basic) amino acids include arginine, lysine
and histidine; and the negatively charged (acidic) amino acids include aspartic acid and glutamic
acid.
        In another embodiment, as shown in Tables 3 and 4, immunologically functional
analogues can be modified by amino acid additions to the N-terminus, C-terminus, and/or by
insertions into the middle of the peptide. In various embodiments of the invention, additions are
to the N-terminus or C-terminus of the peptide. Additions can be of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, or
11 amino acid residues (SEQ ID Nos: 9 and 30). Such additions may constitute amino acid
sequences which are not present in PRRSV protein and which do not alter the immunogenicity of
the PRRSV B epitope cluster peptide. Additions which are not present in PRRSV B epitope
cluster peptide include, but are not limited to, small charged sequences (e.g., lysine-lysine
lysine), amino acids that enable the formation of branched structures (e.g., rN-lysine) or enable
the formation of cyclized structures (e.g., cysteine).     In an embodiment of the invention,
additions of amino acid sequences that are not present in PRRSV are of 5 amino acids or less.
Amino acid additions can be either classical or non-classical amino acids or a mixture thereof.
        In another specific embodiment, immunologically functional analogues can be modified
by amino acid deletions to the N-terminus, C-terminus, and/or middle of the peptide. In various
embodiments, deletions are to the N-terminus or C-terminus of the peptide. Deletions can be of
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, or 11 amino acid residues. In a specific embodiment as shown in
Table 4, deletions of amino acid sequences are of 9 amino acids or less (SEQ ID Nos: 33 and 34).
        In another embodiment, as shown in Table 7, immunologically functional analogues of
PRRSV B epitope cluster peptide encompass PRRSV B epitope cluster antigenic peptides that
have been modified by an alteration in charge. Such alteration in charge may be the result of
amino acid substitutions, additions, or deletions, or the covalent attachment of a charged
molecule. The alteration in charge may have the result of making the peptide more basic, more
acidic, or more neutral as compared to the unmodified peptide. In a specific embodiment, the
                                                 14

peptide is made more basic by the addition of 1-5 lysine residues to the N-terminus or C
terminus. In a more specific embodiment, the peptide is made more basic by the addition of 3
lysine residues to the N-terminus.
        By way of a non-limiting example, immunologically functional analogues of the peptide
of the invention can have from 1 to about 5 additional amino acids (classical and non-classical)
added to the terminal amino acids. For example, the sequence Lys-Lys-Lys can be added to the
amino terminus of this PRRSV B cell epitope cluster peptide for a change in charge.
        The peptides can be readily synthesized using standard techniques, such as the Merrifield
solid phase method of synthesis and the myriad of available improvements on that process. The
peptides can also be made using recombinant DNA technology. As such, nucleic acid molecules
encoding the PRRSV B cell epitope cluster antigenic peptide and immunologically functional
analogues of the PRRSV B cell epitope cluster antigenic peptide and compliments thereof are
encompassed by various exemplary embodiments of the invention.                 Vectors, especially
expression vectors, comprising the nucleic acid molecules encoding PRRSV B cell epitope
cluster antigenic peptides and immunologically functional analogues are also encompassed by
various exemplary embodiments of the invention.         Host cells containing the vectors are also
encompassed by various exemplary embodiments of the invention.
        Various exemplary embodiments of the invention also encompass methods of producing
the PRRSV antigenic peptides and immunologically functional analogues of the PRRSV
antigenic peptides. For example, the method can comprise incubating a host cell containing an
expression vector comprising a nucleic acid molecule encoding a PRRSV antigenic peptide
and/or immunologically functional analogue of an PRRSV antigenic peptide under such
conditions that the PRRSV peptide and/or immunologically functional analogue of a PRRSV
peptide is expressed.
        One embodiment of the invention provides peptide compositions produced by solid-phase
synthesis. This embodiment can use controlled and well-defined immunogens derived from the
lysates or secretions of infected cells. The quality of antigens produced by the chemical process
of this embodiment are controlled and defined and, as a result, reproducibility of antigenicity,
immunogenicity and yield can be assured.       Also, no biohazardous materials are used in the
manufacture of peptide antigens, reducing risks and eliminating the need for expensive
                                                 15

biological containment. As site-specific immunogens presenting high molar concentrations of
selected epitopes, both the safety and immunopotency of the vaccine employing PRRSV
antigenic peptide compositions are assured.
         In one embodiment, the peptides of the invention are synthesized. The use of defined
PRRSV antigenic synthetic peptides minimizes the false-positive results when used as antigen
for antibody detection and diagnosis in piglets. The use of defined synthetic peptides, having
known B cell and Th epitopes, as immunogens eliminates the undesired non-PRRSV-specific
immune responses caused by the presence of antigenic materials originating from PRRSV
infected or recombinant virus-infected host cells and from recombinant protein expression
systems that may be co-purified with PRRS virus and/or recombinant proteins, when used as the
immunogenic ingredients of a vaccine. For example, sera from pigs may have antibodies to host
cells, or to recombinant Escherichiacoli, yeast or baculovirus which are then cross-reactive with
the antigenic materials used in diagnostic tests based on the biologically-derived antigens, and
such immune responses generated by vaccines having these extraneous immunogens as
ingredients will be non-protective. In contrast, pigs receiving a PRRSV peptide vaccine of the
invention will generate focused immune responses devoid of untoward antibodies and other
immune responses to proteins originating from host cells or expression vectors, e.g., proteins
from recombinant Escherichia coli, yeast or baculovirus that had been co-purified with the
biologically-derived PRRSV antigens.
         This embodiment of synthetic peptides also minimizes interference from impurities that
are generated during production. With long syntheses, despite the rigorous control of coupling
efficiency, peptide analogues are also produced due to events during elongation cycles, including
amino acid insertion, deletion, substitution, and premature termination, thus yielding to the
generation of multiple peptide analogues along with the targeted peptide syntheses. Nonetheless,
such peptide analogues are still suitable in peptide preparations as contributors to antigenicity
and immunogenicity when used in immunological application either as solid phase antigen for
purpose of immunodiagnosis or as immunogen for purpose of vaccination.
         During 25 years of experience in immunological applications of synthetic peptides, we
have found that the range in structural variability that allows for retention of an intended
immunological activity is far more accommodating than the range in structural variability
                                                16

allowed for retention of a specific drug activity by a small molecule drug or the desired activities
and undesired toxicities found in large molecules that are co-produced with biologically-derived
drugs. This is why peptide analogues, either intentionally designed or inevitably produced by
errors of the synthetic process as a mixture of deletion sequence byproducts that have
chromatographic and immunologic properties similar to the intended peptide, are frequently as
effective as a purified preparation of the desired peptide. Designed analogues and unintended
analogue mixtures are effective as long as a discerning QC procedure is developed to monitor
both the manufacturing process and the product evaluation process so as to guarantee the
reproducibility and efficacy of the final products employing these peptides.
        In other embodiments of the invention, endogenous PRRSV Th peptides and homologues
thereof (SEQ ID No. 47-79) can be included in the vaccine compositions. The presence of Th
peptides can improve immunogenicity of the PRRSV peptide vaccine.              PRRSV B epitope
derived immunogenic peptides (including the homologues and analogues described above) can
be mixed with endogenous PRRSV Th epitopes.
        In other embodiments of the invention, endogenous PRRSV Th peptides can be presented
as a combinatorial sequence where a combination of amino acid residues are represented at
specific positions within the framework based on the sequences of the homologues for that
PRRSV Th peptide. An assembly of combinatorial peptides can be synthesized through one
synthesis process by adding a mixture of the designated protected amino acids, instead of one
particular amino acid, at a specified position during the synthesis process. Such combinatorial
PRRSV Th peptide assembly can allow broad T helper epitope coverage for animals of a diverse
genetic background. Representative combinatorial sequences of PRRSV Th peptides are shown
in Table 7 SEQ ID Nos 80-90 as derived from Table 6 SEQ ID Nos 47-79 for each of the
PRRSV Th epitope.
        In one embodiment, Th peptides having clusters of immunodominant PRRSV Th
epitopes from ORF 4, ORF5, ORF6 and ORF7, described as SEQ ID Nos: 47, 51, 55, 59, 61, 63,
67, 70, 74, 76 based on JXA1 sequence(also shown in Table 6) and unlinked to the PRRSV B
peptide immunogens, can be used to supplement the immunogenicity of PRRSV B epitope
peptide immunogens to enhance the immunogenicity of peptide based PRRSV vaccine
formulations as shown in Example 5. Including SEQ ID Nos: 47, 51, 55, 59, 61, 63, 67, 70, 74,
                                                  17

76 as free peptides, without covalent linkages to the B epitope peptide immunogens, can improve
immunogenicity of the vaccine formulations. In another embodiment as described in Example 10,
including SEQ ID Nos: 47, 51, 55, 59, 61, 63, 67, 70, 74, 76 for group 2, and SEQ ID NOs 80 to
90 for groups 1, 3, and 4 as free peptides, without covalent linkages to the B epitope peptide
immunogens, can improve immunogenicity of the vaccine formulations.
        In another embodiment, PRRSV peptides            (including homologues and analogues
described above) can be covalently linked, with or without a spacer, to a peptide containing a
sequence known to contain a Th epitope. This embodiment can offer enhanced immunogenicity
over the equivalent immunogens without the covalently linked Th epitope.           In a specific
embodiment, the peptide containing the Th epitope is covalently linked to the N-terminus (SEQ
ID No: 38) and/or C-terminus (SEQ ID No: 39) of the PRRSV peptide.            In another specific
embodiment, the spacer has the sequence Lys-Lys-Lys-rNLys (SEQ ID No: 36), or a single
amino acid rNLys also shown in Table 5 (SEQ ID Nos: 43 and 42 respectively).               In an
embodiment, the peptide containing the Th epitope is covalently linked to the amino terminus of
the PRRSV peptide. In a specific embodiment, the peptide as shown in Table 5 (SEQ ID No: 40)
containing the Th epitope is the artificial combinatorial Th peptide SEQ ID No: 35 (as shown in
Table 5) linked to the amino terminus through a Lys-Lys-Lys-FNLys spacer(SEQ ID No: 36),
and presented as SEQ ID No: 40.
        Various embodiments of the invention relate to vaccine compositions for protecting pigs
against PRRSV.     In exemplary embodiments, the vaccine comprises an immunogenic peptide
antigen or peptide immunogen composition and an acceptable delivery vehicle or adjuvant. In
various embodiments, the PRRSV vaccine composition, comprises a peptide antigen or peptide
antigen composition and a veterinarily acceptable delivery vehicle or adjuvant, wherein the
peptide antigen comprises an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of:
        a) from any one of the PRRSV B cell Epitope Cluster peptide antigens GP5.3 (V21-E65)
            (SEQ ID No: 9), GP 2 B (V111-L136) (SEQ ID No: 10), GP3B (C57-C75) (SEQ ID
            No: 11) and GP4 B (C52-C69) (SEQ ID No: 12);
        b) a homologue of (a);
        c) an antigenically and immunologically functional analogue of (a) or (b),
                                                 18

        d) (a), (b), or (c) having at least one conservative amino acid substitution, amino acid
            addition, and/or amino acid deletion; and
        e) any combination of (a)-(d).
        In an embodiment of the PRRSV vaccine, the charge of the peptide antigen is altered by
adding or deleting 1 to 5 amino acids. In another embodiment of the PRRSV vaccine, the
antigenically and immunologically functional homologue or analogue has at least 50% identity to
the antigen of the amino acid sequence that is from any one of the PRRSV B cell Epitope
Cluster peptide antigens GP5.3 (V21-E65) (SEQ ID No: 9), GP 2 B (V1 11-L136) (SEQ ID No:
10), GP3B (C57-C75) (SEQ ID No: 11) and GP4 B (C52-C69) (SEQ ID No: 12); derived from
GP2, GP3, GP4 and GP5. In a particular embodiment, the peptide antigen has an amino acid
sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID Nos: 9, 10, 11, 12.
        In another embodiment of the PRRSV vaccine the peptide antigen further comprises a T
helper epitope covalently linked to the N-terminus or C-terminus of the peptide antigen. In a
specific embodiment, the T helper epitope is covalently linked to the amino terminus of the
peptide antigen. In another specific embodiment, the T helper epitope is covalently linked to the
peptide antigen through a spacer having at least one amino acid. In a particular embodiment, the
T helper epitope is SEQ ID No: 35. In yet another particular embodiment, the spacer is Lys-Lys
Lys-sNLys (SEQ ID NO: 36). In yet another particular embodiment, the spacer is FNLys. In a
specific embodiment, the peptide antigen is SEQ ID No: 42, 43, 44, 45 or 46.
        In various exemplary embodiments, any amount of immunogenic peptide antigen can be
used to elicit immune responses in the animal. In a particular embodiment, the amount of
peptide antigen is between about 0.1 [tg to about 100 mg. In another particular embodiment, the
amount of peptide antigen is between about 1 [tg to about 10 mg. In yet another embodiment,
the amount of peptide antigen is between about 10 pig to about 1 mg.
        In various embodiments of the PRRSV vaccine composition the composition further
comprises an equimolar mixture of eleven PRRSV T helper epitope peptides of SEQ ID Nos: 47,
51, 52, 55, 59, 61, 63, 67, 70, 74, and 76. In a specific embodiment, the amount of the equimolar
mixture of SEQ ID Nos: 47, 51, 52, 55, 59, 61, 63, 67, 70, 74, and 76 is between about 0.1 ig to
about 1 mg. In a more specific embodiment, the amount of the equimolar mixture of SEQ ID
Nos: 47, 51, 52, 55, 59, 61, 63, 67, 70, 74, and 76 is between about 1 g to about 100 fig.
                                                   19

        In various exemplary embodiments, any type or amount of delivery vehicle or adjuvant
can be used. In a particular embodiment, the delivery vehicle and adjuvant is MontanideTM ISA
50V (an oil vaccine adjuvant composition comprised of vegetable oil and mannide oleate for
production of water-in-oil emulsions), Tween@ 80 (also known as: Polysorbate 80 or
Polyoxyethylene (20) sorbitan monooleate), a CpG oligonucleotide, and/or any combination
thereof.
        In a specific embodiment, the PRRSV vaccine composition, comprises a peptide antigen
of SEQ ID No: 33 and a veterinarily acceptable delivery vehicle or adjuvant, wherein the amount
of peptide antigen is between about 10 pig to about 1 mg.
        Another embodiment of the invention relates to a method for protecting piglets that are or
are not PRRSV Maternally Derived Antibody (MDA) positive against PRRSV infection,
comprising administering a vaccine encompassed by any of the exemplary embodiments as
described above.
        A mixture of two PRRSV NC peptides with SEQ ID Nos: 1 and 2 was prepared in
accordance with the present disclosure can also be used to detect PRRSV antibodies by using
the peptide in an antigenically effective amount in the capture phase of an immunoassay, e.g., in
the solid phase immunosorbent of ELISA test kits. In accordance with an embodiment of the
present invention, any compatible immunoassay format can be used with the subject peptides.
Such formats are well known to the ordinarily skilled artisan and have been described in many
standard immunology manuals and texts, see for example Harlow et al.1988 (24). These include,
among other well-known immunoassay formats, an enzyme-linked immunoadsorbent assay
(ELISA), an enzyme immunodot assay, an agglutination assay, an antibody-peptide-antibody
sandwich    assay, a peptide-antibody-peptide     sandwich    assay.   In an embodiment, the
immunoassay is an ELISA using a solid phase coated with a peptide composition comprising two
PRRSV NC antigenic peptides (SEQ ID Nos: 1 and 2).
        According to one embodiment of the invention, the peptide is capable of testing sera from
sows and gilts, boars and barrows, and piglets for PRRSV infection by a screening ELISA, for
the evaluation of sera from pre-vaccinated piglets for levels of maternally derived anti-PRRSV
antibodies, and for determining the levels of immune responses in vaccinated piglets towards a
vaccine employing PRRSV antigenic peptide.
                                                20

        In a specific embodiment, an ELISA immunoassay can be used to test swine blood,
serum or plasma samples for the presence of anti-PRRSV antibodies comprising the steps of:
          i.    attaching a mixture of two PRRSV NC peptides (SEQ ID Nos: 1 and 2)
                to a solid support,
          ii.   exposing said peptide attached to said solid support to a swine blood,
                serum or plasma sample containing           antibodies, under conditions
                conducive to binding of the antibody to the peptide, and
          iii.  detecting the presence of antibodies bound to said peptide attached to said
                solid support.
        In another specific embodiment, an ELISA immunoassay can be used to test swine blood,
serum or plasma samples for the presence of anti-PRRSV antibodies comprising the steps of:
          i.    attaching a mixture of two PRRSV NC peptides (SEQ ID Nos:7 and 8) , as
                homologues of SEQ ID NOs: 1 and 2 originated from the European Strain
                sequence, to a solid support,
          ii.   exposing said peptide attached to said solid support to a swine blood,
                serum or plasma sample containing           antibodies, under conditions
                conducive to binding of the antibody to the peptide, and
          iii.  detecting the presence of antibodies bound to said peptide attached to said
                solid support.
        In an exemplified use of the subject ELISA kit, a pig serum sample to be tested is diluted
in sample diluent and then contacted with one or more of the PRRSV NC peptides described
above for a time and under conditions for any antibodies, if present, to bind to the peptide
sensitized solid phase. After removal of unbound material (e.g., by washing with phosphate
buffered-saline), the secondary complex is contacted with labeled antibodies to pig-specific IgG
or labeled protein A, protein G, or protein A/G. These antibodies or proteins A, G or A/G bind
to the secondary complex to form a tertiary complex and, since the second antibodies or proteins
A, or G or A/G are labeled with a reporter molecule, when subjected to a detecting means, the
tertiary complex is detected. The reporter molecule can be an enzyme, radioisotope, fluorophore,
bioluminescent molecule, chemiluminescent molecule, biotin, avidin, streptavidin or the like.
                                                 21

For ELISA the reporter molecule is preferably an enzyme.
        Specific embodiments of the present invention include, but are not limited to, the
following:
(1) A Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome (PRRS) vaccine composition, comprising
a peptide antigen and a veterinarily acceptable delivery vehicle or adjuvant, wherein the peptide
antigen comprises an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of: a) SEQ ID NO:
9, SEQ ID NO: 10, SEQ ID NO: 11, SEQ ID NO: 12, and any combination thereof; b) a
homologue of (a); and c) any combination of (a) or (b).
(2) The PRRS vaccine according to (1), wherein the peptide antigen comprises the amino acid
sequence of SEQ ID NO: 9.
(3) The PRRS vaccine according to (1), wherein the peptide antigen comprises the amino acid
sequence of SEQ ID NO: 10.
(4) The PRRS vaccine according to (1), wherein the peptide antigen comprises the amino acid
sequence of SEQ ID NO: 11.
(5) The PRRS vaccine according to (1), wherein the peptide antigen comprises the amino acid
sequence of SEQ ID NO: 12.
(6) The PRRS vaccine according to (1), wherein the peptide antigen is altered by adding or
deleting 1 to 5 amino acids.
(7) The PRRS vaccine according to (1), further comprising a T helper epitope covalently linked
to the amino- or carboxyl- terminus of the peptide antigen.
(8) The PRRS vaccine according to (7), wherein the T helper epitope is SEQ ID NOs: 35.
(9) The PRRS vaccine according to (7), wherein the T helper epitope is covalently linked to the
peptide antigen through a spacer comprising an epsilon lysine residue.
(10) The PRRS vaccine according to (9), wherein the spacer is SEQ ID NO: 36.
(11) The PRRS vaccine according to (1), further comprising a T helper epitope that is unlinked
to the antigenic peptide, wherein the T helper epitope is selected from the group consisting of
SEQ ID NOs: 47-90.
                                                22

(12) The PRRS vaccine according to (1), wherein the total amount of peptide antigen is between
about 10 gg to about 1 mg.
(13) The PRRS vaccine according to (1), wherein the delivery vehicle and adjuvant is selected
from a group consisting of Montanide ISA 50V, Polyoxyethylene (20) sorbitan monooleate, and
a CpG oligonucleotide.
(14) A method for protecting piglets against PRRS infection, comprising administering a vaccine
according to (1).
(15) A PRRS vaccine composition, comprising: a) a peptide antigen and a veterinarily acceptable
delivery vehicle or adjuvant, b) a peptide antigen comprising an amino acid sequence selected
from the group consisting of SEQ ID Nos: 10, 11, 12, 31, and a combination thereof, and c) a
PRRSV Th peptide selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 80 - 90 and a
combination thereof.
(16) A PRRS vaccine composition, comprising: a) a peptide antigen and a veterinarily acceptable
delivery vehicle or adjuvant, b) a peptide antigen comprising an amino acid sequence selected
from the group consisting of SEQ ID Nos: 42, 44, 45, 46, and a combination thereof, and c) a
PRRSV Th peptide selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 80 - 90 and a
combination thereof.
(17) A method for diagnosing PRRS infection comprising the steps of: a) attaching a mixture of
SEQ ID NO: 1 and SEQ ID NO: 2 to a solid support, b) exposing said peptide attached to said
solid support to a swine blood, serum or plasma sample containing antibodies, under conditions
conducive to binding of the antibody to the peptide, and c) detecting the presence of antibodies
bound to said peptide attached to said solid support.
(18) An ELISA immunoassay for testing the presence of anti-PRRSV antibodies comprising the
steps of: a) attaching a mixture of SEQ ID NO: 7 and SEQ ID NO: 8 to a solid support, b)
exposing said peptide attached to said solid support to a swine blood, serum or plasma sample
containing antibodies, under conditions conducive to binding of the antibody to the peptide, and
c) detecting the presence of antibodies bound to said peptide attached to said support.
        The following examples serve to illustrate the present invention and are not to be used to
limit the scope of the invention.
                                                23

                                           EXAMPLE 1
Serological assays for assessment of immune sera titers for crossreactivity between the
target PRRSV B cell Epitope Cluster Peptide Antigens and the native PRRSV protein
antigens by immunofluorescent assay (IFA) using PRRSV co-transfected HTK cells
         Antibodies directed against PRRSV subunit proteins, GP3, GP4 and GP5, can be detected
by immunofluoresence using HTK cells co-transfected recombinant vaccinia virus rVVT7 (T7
polymerase recombinant vaccinia virus) with plasmid encoding PRRSV orf,              orf4 and orf5
downstream of a T7 promoter respectively. This method provides for transient expression of
these PRRSV proteins in mammalian cells with high-fidelity with its original viral replication.
As PRRSV GP3, GP4 and GP5 consist of transmembrane domain and side-chain modification,
the best PRRSV protein structure can only be make de novo. Each PRRSV subunit protein, GP2,
GP3, GP4 or GP5, was synthesized de novo and the co-transfected HTK cells were used as the
target cells for the performance of intracellular staining by the immune sera for assessment in an
immunoassay for the presence of specific antibodies against PRRSV. This immunofluoresence
assay system allows for the best condition for detection of antibodies to the natural PRRSV
antigens with high specificity and sensitivity.
           HTK cell line cells were infected with T7 polymerase recombinant vaccinia virus
(rVVT7)     (21), and co-transected     with the PRRSV-        orf,  orf4 and orf5 plasmid by
lipofectamineTM     (Invitrogen)   (22)  according    to  the  mechanism   illustrated   in Figure
1A.    Specifically,   construction   of the pRRSV plasmid for expression of the native
PRRSV protein mediated by the T7 polymerase promoter was accomplished as follows: A full
length pRRSV gene (from Taiwan PRRSV MDOO1 strain Accession No. AF035409) was
amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and cloned into the pCR2. ITopo* plasmid vector
(Invitrogen). The expression ability of the pRRSV plasmid was confirmed by sequencing which
shows the full nucleotide sequence for orf3, orf4 and orf5 from PRRSV strain MDOO 1.
         HTK cells were grown to 80% confluency in 96-well plates, infected with rVVT7 (22),
and then co-transected with the pRRSV orf3, orf4 and orf5 plasmid individually by
lipofectamineTM (Invitrogen).     Twenty four hours post co-transfection, the cells were fixed by
80% acetone and the plate preserved at -8OoC for detection of antibodies to PRRSV protein
through immunofluorescence assay (IFA).
                                                  24

        The illustration in Figure 1A shows HTK cells infected with T7 polymerase recombinant
vaccinia virus (T7/vac) (21) and co-transfected with the pCR-orf5 plasmid by lipofectamineTM
(Invitrogen). The recombinant GP5 protein transports to the cytoplasm after it is translated (22).
Anti-GP5 antibodies, according to one embodiment of the invention, become bound to the
cytoplasm of the transfected HTK host cells where they are detected by the immunofluorescence
of a labeled secondary antibody. This method affords for detection of antibodies to authentic
PRRSV GP5 protein with high specificity through transient eukaryotic expression in the HTK
cells of full length PRRSV GP5 protein, mediated by the prokaryotic T7 promotor. Similar
transfection with pCR-full length PRRSV genome can also be used for detection of PRRSV GP2,
GP3, GP4, M and N proteins with high specificity through transient eukaryotic expression in the
HTK cells of full length PRRSV genome, mediated by the prokaryotic T7 promotor.
Titration of PRRSV antibodies by immunofluorescence assay (IFA).
        Serum samples were initially diluted 10-fold in PBS followed by a 2-fold dilution
series. For each test run, a positive control serum from a PRRSV-infected SPF pig and negative
control serum from an uninfected SPF pig were both included to validate the expression of the
PRRSV nucleocapsid protein by the pRRSV orf-7 plasmid. Serum samples giving fluorescence
signals localized to the cytoplasma (as shown in Figure 1B) at dilutions higher than 1:10 were
scored as having IFA titers >10; and these titers were indicative of animals infected by PRRSV.
For sera from animal vaccines containing "target peptide" specific antibodies as a result of
vaccination, their crossreactivity against the specific target protein or the full PRRSV genome
can be assessed by immunofluorescence assay (IFA) with the corresponding targeted natural
PRRSV protein (e.g. GP2, 3, 4 or 5). All testing of serum samples collected from either pigs with
natural infection or from pigs given PRRSV peptide-based vaccine were performed under code.
                                           EXAMPLE 2
PRRSV B cell Epitope Cluster Peptide Antigen based ELISAs for immunogenicity
assessment of the designer peptides representing neutralizing/receptor binding sites of
PRRSV
        The wells of 96-well plates were coated individually for 1 hour at 37 0 C with 100 ptL of
                                                 25

individual target peptides, at 2 [tg/mL unless specifically mentioned, in 10mM NaHCO 3 buffer,
pH 9.5 unless noted otherwise.
         The peptide-coated wells were incubated with 250 ptL of 3% by weight of gelatin in PBS
in 37'C for 1 hour to block non-specific protein binding sites, followed by three washes with
PBS containing 0.05% by volume of TWEEN@ 20 and dried. Pig serum positive for PRRSV
antibody by IFA and negative control sera were diluted 1:20, unless otherwise noted, with PBS
containing 20% by volume normal goat serum, 1% by weight gelatin and 0.05% by volume
TWEEN@ 20. One hundred microliters of the diluted specimens were added to each of the wells
and allowed to react for 60 minutes at 37 0 C.
         The wells were then washed six times with 0.05% by volume TWEEN@ 20 in PBS in
order to remove unbound antibodies. Horseradish peroxidase-conjugated goat anti-swine IgG
was used as a labeled tracer to bind with the antibody/peptide antigen complex formed in
positive wells. One hundred microliters of the peroxidase-labeled goat anti-swine IgG at a pre
titered optimal dilution and in 1% by volume normal goat serum with 0.05% by volume
TWEEN@ 20 in PBS, was added to each well and incubated at 37'C for another 30 minutes.
The wells were washed six times with 0.05% by volume TWEEN@ 20 in PBS to remove
unbound antibody and reacted with 100 ptL of the substrate mixture containing 0.04% by weight
3', 3', 5' ,5'-Tetramethylbenzidine (TMB) and 0.12% by volume hydrogen peroxide in sodium
citrate buffer for another 15 minutes. This substrate mixture was used to detect the peroxidase
label by forming a colored product. Reactions were stopped by the addition of 100 piL of 1.OM
H2 SO 4 and absorbance at 450 nm (A 450 ) determined.
         Serum dilutions were done in accordance with the purpose for detecting PRRSV
antibodies in the animal sera: (a) For identification of potential natural infection, a dilution of
1:20 was used, the A 450 reading was recorded, and a built-in intrinsic negative control for cutoff
calculation was used; or (b) For the determination of antibody titers of pigs that received peptide
based PRRSV vaccine formulations, 10-fold serial dilutions of sera from 1:10 to 1:10,000 were
tested, and the titer of a tested serum, expressed as Logio, was calculated by linear regression
analysis of the A 4 50 .
                                                26

                                            EXAMPLE 3
Identification    of optimal PRRSV          antigenic peptides     in diagnostic   application to
differentiate infected from vaccinated animals
        The genomic sequences of PRRSV from the previously published sequence of PRRSV
isolate JXA1, LV, EU, NA and from a Taiwan strain MDOO1 were used to deduce the protein
sequences from open reading frames, and the data obtained from the ORF 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7
encoded protein sequences were used to design B cell epitope cluster antigenic peptides for
detection of antibodies in sera from animals with PRRSV infection, and antigenic peptides
representing functional neutralizing/receptor binding sites used in marker vaccine formulations
for detection of specific antibodies elicited in animals receiving marker vaccine formulations.
        We have employed a strategy which uses bioinformatic information and classical
immunization experiments to restrict the number of peptides to be screened for identification of
optimal B and T cell epitope clustered peptides for diagnostic and vaccine applications.
        The development of the urgently needed tools for differentiation of infected from
vaccinated animals, termed "DIVA" system, is complementary to the marker vaccine design
process.
        Since the majority of antibodies produced during PRRSV infection in pigs are specific
for the PRRSV ORF 7 encode nucleocapsid protein (NC) protein, for which major antigenic
determinants are relatively well conserved among strains from the same continent, the NC
protein was therefore targeted as a suitable candidate for the detection of virus-specific
antibodies and diagnosis of the infection and disease. The advantage of using synthetic peptide
based antigens for antibody capture is well known including improved specificity due to the void
of cellular components unrelated to PRRSV causing false positivity, as well as the improved
sensitivity due to the epitope cluster peptide's intrinsic nature.
        Positive sera from animals with known PRRSV infection were used to screen the
overlapping PRRSV ORF 7 encoded NC peptides for strong and consistent antigenicities that
could be useful for antibody detection. The negative sera were collected from normal and SPF
pigs known to be free of PRRSV infection. Data on epitopes mapping of the NC protein of North
American MDOO1 strain are summarized in Fig. 2. Indirect ELISA using designer peptides for
                                                   27

plate coating at 2ug/mL at 0.1mL per well was carried out. Two series (a to e) of peptides of
increasing length with sequences derived from the MDOO1 NC protein were synthesized. The
4171 series of peptides (shown in Fig. 2A) were synthesized with the C-terminus beginning at
residue 71 while the 4172 series of peptides (shown in Fig. 2B) were synthesized with the C
terminus beginning at residue 123. These peptides were individually used in plate coating and
tested with three pooled PRRSV positive sera along with a panel of 12 validated PRRSV
negative sera for sensitivity and specificity for each of the peptides.
        As shown in Figure 2A, peptide 4171e (SEQ ID NO:1) was found to be the most
antigenic among peptides from this 4171 series tested with an 1lmer antigenic epitope having
the sequence "PNNNGKQQKKK" (SEQ ID No: 91) located at the N-terminus of peptide 4171e.
        As shown in Fig. 2B, peptide 4172e (SEQ ID NO:2) was found to be the most antigenic
among the peptides from this 4172 series tested with an 18mer antigenic epitope having the
sequence of "EKPHFPLATEDDVRHHFT" (SEQ ID No: 92) located at the N-terminus.
        The 18mer antigenic epitope "EKPHFPLATEDDVRHHFT" (SEQ ID No: 92) was not
antigenic when presented within peptides          4171a-d. However, this 18mer peptide epitope
presents itself within the full-length 4171e molecule (SEQ ID NO:1) to form a large
conformational epitope in combination with the 1 imer antigenic epitope "PNNNGKQQKKK"
on SEQ ID NO: 1. Furthermore, the unexpected immunodominant antigenicity of the two 70 and
73 mer peptides (SEQ ID NO: 1 and 2, respectively) is consistent with the long peptide
representing a large exposed surface on the NC protein that presents processions of long
continuous and discontinuous epitopes.
        Antigenic peptides 4171e (SEQ ID No: 1) and 4172e (SEQ ID No: 2) were employed at a
2:1 ratio mixture for plate coating at 3ug/mL at 0. 1mL per well which formed a part of the UBI
PRRSV NC ELISA for capture / detection of antibodies to PRRSV North American strains.
        Homologous NC protein sequences from various PRRSV Strains (MD001, JXA1, NA
and EU) were aligned as shown in Figure 3. Although there are significant substitution, insertion
and deletion of amino acid residues for the originating EU sequence when compared to the
parent MDOO1 sequence, substitution peptide homologues (SEQ ID No: 3 and SEQ ID No: 4) as
shown in Table 1 based on the amino acid sequence of the PRRSV nucleocapsid protein of the
originating European strain, are similarly used as antigens in the UBI PRRSV NC EU ELISA for
                                                  28

capture/detection of antibodies to PRRSV European strains.
         A panel of 30 sera previously characterized with respect to anti-PRRSV NC protein
reactivities by the IFA test was used as a positive sera panel to further validate the sensitivity and
specificity of the UBI PRRSV NC ELISA. As shown in Table 2, the UBI PRRSV NC ELISA has
about the same level of sensitivity as the IFA test for the NC protein when the limit of detection
by IFA was at around 1:16 dilution.          The UBI PRRSV NC ELISA test was used as a
supplemental serological tool to evaluate field samples and to identify infected and vaccinated
animals as well as to evaluate the PRRSV marker peptide based vaccines as described in other
examples.
                                           EXAMPLE 4
Design and Synthesis of Peptides for Serological Validation to Identify Antigenic Peptides
for Use in a PRRSV marker vaccine.
         A large repertoire of PRRSV antigenic peptides representing both PRRSV B and T cell
epitope cluster sites from the PRRSV GP2, GP3, GP4, GP5, M and NC proteins with sequences
of lengths from about 10 to about 70 amino acids were designed. For some peptides, amino acid
substitution at a suitable site was made to allow formation of a cyclic peptide to exert constraint
for local structure preservation so as to maximize the cross-reaction with the corresponding
native protein. For other antigenic peptides, linkage to an artificial combinatorial Th peptide (e.g.
UBITh3, SEQ ID No: 15) was made to enhance their respective immunogenicity. All peptides
were subject to a labor intensive and time sensitive "serological validation" process, including
iterative cycles of peptide synthesis, vaccine formulation, animal immunization, and serological
testing, to yield at candidate peptides for further testing in target animals for respective
diagnostic and vaccine that had gone through our initial applications.
         All  peptides used for immunogenicity         testing were synthesized using Applied
BioSystems Peptide Synthesizer Models 430A, 431 and 433, using Fmoc chemistry.                    Each
peptide was produced by an independent synthesis on a solid-phase support, with Fmoc
protection at the N-terminus and side chain protecting groups of trifunctional amino acids.
Completed peptides were cleaved from the solid support and side chain protecting groups
                                                  29

removed by 90% trifluoroacetic acid.       Synthetic peptide preparations were characterized for
correct composition by Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption Time-Of-Flight (MALDTOF) Mass
Spectrometry, and for content including synthesis profile and concentration by Reverse Phase
HPLC.      With long syntheses, despite the rigorous control of coupling efficiency, peptide
analogues were also produced due to events during elongation cycles, including amino acid
insertion, deletion, substitution, and premature termination, thus yielding to the generation of
multiple peptide analogues along with the targeted peptide. Nonetheless, such peptide analogues
were still suitable in peptide preparations as contributors to antigenicity and immunogenicity
when used in immunological applications either as an antibody capture antigen for purpose of
immunodiagnosis or as an immunogen for purpose of vaccination. Typically, such peptide
analogues, either intentionally designed or generated through synthetic process as a mixture of
byproducts, are frequently as effective as a purified preparation of the desired peptide, as long as
a discerning QC procedure is developed to monitor both the manufacturing process and the
product evaluation process to guarantee the reproducibility and efficacy of the final product
employing these peptides.
        Figure 4 shows the distribution/locatization of selected B and T cell epitopes on the
PRRSV 2 to ORF 7 encoded proteins (GP2, GP3, GP4, GP5, M and NC proteins) that had gone
through our initial investigation and validation for use in subsequent vaccine formulation
applications. The design goal for B cell epitope cluster peptide immunogens is to create the
antigenic peptide to mimic the selected functional sites which can induce neutralizing antibodies
or are involved with PRRSV receptor binding to target cells. Specific GP5 B cell epitope cluster
peptides were designed over four amino acid frames GP5.1, 5.2, 5.3 and 5.4 around the receptor
binding/neutralizing site as shown in Table 4 (SEQ ID Nos: 9 to 14) for testing their relative
immunogenicity and cross-reactivity to native PRRSV GP5 protein antigen, based on either
single PRRSV strain sequence or as a combinatorial sequence, as derived from several PRRSV
strain sequences, for breadth of viral coverage.
        Additional B cell cluster antigenic peptides designed around neutralizing sites from
structure proteins GP2 to GP4 based on the PRRSV JXA1 sequence with designation of GP2 B
epitope (VI I-L136), GP3 B epitope (C57-C75) and GP4 B epitope (C52-C69) are shown in
Table 3. GP2 B (V1 1-L136) is presented as a linear peptide (SEQ ID NO: 6) while GP3 B
                                                 30

epitope (C57-C75) and GP4 B epitope (C52-C69) are presented as cyclic peptides (SEQ ID NOs:
7 and 8) to allow local constraints for conformation preservation. These antigenic peptides were
also linked individually to an artificial combinatorial Th peptide (SEQ ID No: 15) either at the
C-terminus (SEQ ID Nos: 29 and 30) for GP5.1 and GP5.2 frames or at the N-terminus (SEQ ID
Nos: 39-46) as shown in Table 5 to enhance the immunogenicity of these peptide antigens due to
their short length nature. These B cell epitope cluster peptide immunogens were incorporated
into vaccine formulations, immunized into guinea pigs or pigs according to well-designed
protocols with immune sera collected timely for extensive serological assessments. These
immune sera were subjected to testing for their antibody titers against the respective target
peptide antigen based ELISAs for immunogenicity.
        Detection     of  cross-reactivity  to  the    PRRSV     native   protein     antigens by
immunnofluorescence assay (IFA) was carried out as described in Example 1. This is to assess
suitability of the designed peptide immunogens for use in the final vaccine formulation. For
those peptide antigens qualified as peptide immunogens, peptide homologues with sequences
derived from the originating PRRSV strains (e.g. MDOO1, JXA1, NA and EU strains), or the
consensus (cons) sequences as shown in Table 3, or combinatorial sequences as shown in Table
4 for SEQ ID Nos 32, 33 and 34, derived thereof, were further designed as peptide immunogens
to allow elicitation of antibodies in the immunized host for broad cross-reactivities with PRRSV
of different strains.
        The design for T cell epitope cluster peptide immunogen is far simpler. Well
characterized immunodominant T cell epitopes based on their ability to induce IFN-gamma
responses in culture of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) obtained from PRRSV
immunized and later challenged pigs were selected for incorporation into vaccine formulations to
broaden the cell mediated immune response in immunized hosts. The sequences of T cell epitope
cluster peptides based on PRRSV JXA1 strain from GP4, GP5, M and NC proteins, and
alignments for homologous PRRSV T helper epitope sequences in various PRRSV strains
(MDOO1, NA and EU) are shown in Table 6 as SEQ ID Nos: 47-79. To improve the solubility of
these rather hydrophobic peptide antigens, three lysine residues (KKK) were added to the N
terminus of the individual T helper peptide for them to act as peptide immunogens. A pool of
these T cell cluster peptides was made by mixing all the identified Th peptide immunogens in
                                                31

equal ratio (SEQ ID Nos: 47-79) as a supplement (T cell epitope pool 1) in vaccine formulations
to further enhance the immunogenicity of the PRRSV B cell cluster peptide immunogens and on
their own as PRRSV T cell peptide immunogens for cell mediated immunity.
        To further broaden the T cell epitope coverage over the animal's diverse genetic
background, a combinatorial peptide, based on the four homologous T epitope sequences, for
specific epitope is prepared for each of the T cell epitopes. Similarly, three lysine residues (KKK)
were added to the N-terminus of the respective combinatorial T epitope cluster peptide
immunogens (SEQ ID. NOs: 80-90) as shown in Table 7. A pool of these T epitope cluster
combinatorial peptide immunogens (pool 2) was used as a supplement in vaccine formulations to
further enhance the immunogenicity of the PRRSV B cell cluster peptide immunogens and on
their own as PRRSV T cell peptide immunogens for cell mediated immunity.
                                           EXAMPLE 5
Immunization of guinea pigs and pigs with vaccine formulations containing PRRSV B
epitope cluster peptide antigens from GP5, 2, 3 an 4 proteins for assessment of
immunogenicity and crossreactivities with native PRRSV proteins
        An ectodomain is the domain of a membraneprotein that extends into the extracellular
space (the space outside a cell). Ectodomains are usually the part of a viral protein that initiate
contact with target cell surface and responsible for attachment to and entry into cells during
infection. Viral entry-associated domains are important for the induction of neutralizing
antibodies since neutralizing antibodies block interaction of virus with its cellular receptors.
When developing a next generation effective PRRSV vaccine, it is thus important to assess the
functionality of viral entry-associated domains of PRRSV. The macrophage-specific lectin
sialoadhesin (CD163) is a crucial viral receptor on macrophages. Using a soluble form of
sialoadhesin, the disulfide linked heterodimer of GP5 and M complex of PRRSV has been found
to be the ligand for sialoadhesin.    This ligand-receptor interaction is dependent on the lectin
activity of sialoadhesin and on sialic acids on the GP5 glycoprotein. The ectodomain of the
PRRSV GP5 protein and the impact of M on GP5's immunogenicity was therefore explored to
identify the optimal GP5 peptide immunogens for use in the PRRSV marker vaccine
formulations with an aim to induce an immunity that blocks the interaction between viral M/GP5
                                                 32

and the host cell receptor sialoadhesin.
        Over 45 peptide antigens around the receptor binding/neutralizing sites in the ectodomain
of PRRSV GP5 protein were designed and grouped into four amino acid sequence frames for
immunogenicity assessment.
        The first frame began at the C-terminus residue "E" (glutamic acid) of the GP5
ectodomain and extended all the way to the N-terminus of the ectodomain including five
additional amino acid residues into the signal sequence of the GP5 protein to make a 40mer
peptide antigen as shown in Table 4 as GP5.1 MDOO1(A26-E65) peptide antigen (SEQ ID No:
29), based on the sequence of PRRSV strain MD 001. This design allows for a Cys residue in the
central part of the GP5 peptide antigen for disulfide bond formation with the ectodomain of M
peptide, if desired.
        The second domain is an extension of the GP5.1 MDOO1(A26-E65) peptide antigen at the
N-terminus for another five amino acid residues into the signal sequence resulting in a 45 mer
peptide GP5.2 MD001 (V21-E65) (SEQ ID No: 30) where an intramolecular disulfide bond
between C24 and C48 could allow preservation of the regional conformation of the ectodomain
of GP5. This design would allow the induction of specific antibodies to most of the ectodomain
of GP5 in the absence of M protein.
        The third frame modeled after the second frame peptide antigen GP5.2 MDOO1 (V21-E65)
with the exception of leaving out the 1 imer GP5 HV2 region of the ectodomain to yield at a
34mer peptide antigen GP5.3 (V21-D54) (SEQ ID No: 9). This design would allow B cell
recognition of the highly conserved central region of the ectodomain of GP5.
        The fourth frame (GP5.4) was directed to a looped structure located at the center of the
ectodomain of the GP5 protein to arrive at a 25 mer cyclic peptide GP5.4 (C24-C48) based on
the PRRSV strain MD001 sequence. In order to accommodate the strain to strain variation,
combinatorial peptides modeled after the peptide antigens of the third and fourth amino acid
frames according to the PRRSV strain sequences of JXA1/MDOO1 and JXA1/NJ-a, of the North
American type were designed as GP5.3 JXA1/MDOO1 (V21-D54) (SEQ ID No: 32), GP5.3
JXA1/NJ-a(V21-D54) (SEQ ID NO: 33) and GP5.4 NJ-a/JXA1/MDOO1 (C24-C48) (SEQ ID
NO:34). In order to assess the impact of the ectodomain of M protein on the GP5 ectocdomain
peptide immunogenicity, a 26mer ectodomain peptide with the sequence of the following:
                                                33

"MGSSLDDRCHDSTAPQKVLLAFSITY" (SEQ ID No: 93) based on MDOO1 sequence was
designed (M1-Y26) for assessment.
         The structure of PRRSV consists of a nucleocapsid protein in association with the viral
RNA. The nucleoprotein is surrounded by a lipid envelope in which six structure proteins are
embedded: the GP2, GP3, GP4, GP5 and the nonglycosylated proteins M and E (ORF2b). GP5
and M are the most abundant proteins in the envelope while the other envelope proteins are
present in lower amounts. GP5 has been the major target for PRRSV protective immunity,
However, in light of the variability of the PRRSV and the recent findings that GP2 and GP3 are
also somewhat involved in clinical and virological protection, whereas documented polyclonal
antibodies bound to antigenic peptides derived from GP2, GP3 and GP4 also exerted neutralizing
activities against PRRSV, selected peptide antigens from GP2, GP3 and GP4 were also designed,
screened and identified for incorporation in PRRSV vaccine formulations. Specifically, antigenic
peptides GP2B epitope (V111-L136) (SEQ ID No: 10), GP3 B epitope (C57-C75) (SEQ ID No:
11), GP4 B epitope (C52-C69) (SEQ ID No: 12) as shown in Table 3 were designed based on
PRRSV      JXA1     strain  sequence  for   immunogenicity     and   cross-reactivities assessment.
Homologous GP5, GP2, GP4 and GP4 derived B epitope sequences from various PRRSV strains
are also listed in Table 3 as examples for peptide antigen design references.
         These B epitope cluster peptide antigens from GP5, GP2, GP3, and GP4 were also linked
individually to an artificial combinatorial Th peptide (SEQ ID No: 35) either at the C-terminus
(SEQ ID Nos: 37 and 38) for GP5.1 and GP5.2 frames or at the N-terminus (SEQ ID Nos: 39-46)
as shown in Table 5 to enhance the immunogenicity of these peptide antigens overcoming their
short length nature.
Vaccine formulations.
         In an exemplified use of peptide based PRRSV vaccine of the invention, vaccine
formulations having as immunogens peptides comprising the receptor binding/ neutralizing or T
helper epitope cluster sites as listed in Tables 3 to 7 with SEQ ID Nos: 9-90, either with or
without linkage to a foreign Th epitope through the amino or carboxyl terminus and a Lys-Lys
Lys-sNLys (SEQ ID No: 36) or rNLys spacer to a foreign T helper epitope such as the artificial
combinatorial Th sequence UBITh@3(SEQ ID No: 35), were formulated into water-in-oil
emulsions using a commercially available oil vaccine delivery vehicle, Montanide ISA 50V2
                                                 34

based on supplier recommended procedures. MontanideTM ISA 50V2 (Seppic, Paris France), an
oily adjuvant composition of mannide oleate and mineral oil commonly used for swine vaccines,
was emulsified with an equal volume of the aqueous phase peptide solution in PBS. Peptide
immunogens were formulated into the respective emulsions at around 25 to 75 ug/mL, according
to specific protocols (e.g. peptide ratio and total peptide concentration in the emulsion). The
emulsion based vaccine formulations were injected intramuscularly into guinea pigs at 0.25mL to
0.5mL per site or into piglets at 1mL per site, unless specifically mentioned otherwise.
Immunization of Guinea Pig and Piglet with the designer peptide vaccine formulations.
        For immunogenicity studies conducted in Guinea Pigs, adult mature and naYve male and
female Duncan-Hartley Guinea Pigs (300-350g/BW) were used at 3 per group. Animals were
immunized with the specific vaccine formulation at 0 and 3 wpi intramuscularly (IM) for 2 doses.
The vaccine formulations should be put at room temperature for about 30 min and vortexed for
about 10 to 15 seconds prior to immunization. Blood was collected for serum samples at weeks 0,
3 and 5 post initial immunization (wpi). These samples were tested by target peptide based
ELISAs for direct binding titers and PRRSV co-transfected cell based IFA for cross-reactivity
titers as described in Examples 1 and 2 for immunogenicity assessment of the peptide
immunogens and vaccine formulations.
         Piglets of approximately 4 weeks of age from a specific pathogen-free (SPF) farm were
ear marked for immunogenicity studies and divided into groups (3 to 5 piglets/group) according
to study protocol. These groups were immunized with vaccine formulations intramuscularly at
weeks 0 and 4. In one study, piglets from a regular farm with prior PRRSV infection were used
for assessment of the independent immunogenicity of the designer PRRSV peptide antigens in
the presence of anti PRRSV antibodies through the use of a combination of diagnostic ELISA
tests to differentiate the infected from marker vaccine formulation of this invention vaccinated
pigs and also measuring the pigs' responses to the PRRSV marker vaccine formulations.
        Blood samples were collected at the time of first immunization, at 3-4 weeks upon the
first boost, and two weeks after the boost at 5-6 weeks, serum samples were prepared and subject
to multiple serological tests for assessment of immunogenicity            and cross-reactivity as
described in details in examples 1 and 2.
                                                  35

Optimization and Ranking of Peptide immunogens designed from the PRRSV GP5 protein
ectodomain sequences
        Out of the many GP5 ectodomain peptide immunogens prepared, nine of them were
formulated   into   emulsion   formulations   for illustration  and ranking of their   relative
immunogenicity after a prime and boost immunization schedule. As can be seen from Table 8,
peptide immunogen 402OKc (SEQ ID No: 38) based on PRRSV MD001 sequence is more
immunogenic than peptide immunogen 4020 Kb (SEQ ID No: 37) based both on target peptide
ELISA (>1 log10) and IFA titers. Thus amino acid sequence frame 2 (GP5.2) design is better
than frame 1 (GP 5.1). Peptide immunogen 402OKc was used in most of the PRRSV challenge
studies by PRRSV MDOO1 as described in details in Example 6. As shown in Table 8, peptide
immunogen 4048Kb (SEQ ID No:39) designed with frame 3 (GP5.3) with sequence derived
from PRRSV MD001 was found having about the same immunogenicity as peptide 402OKc,
however, its IFA titer was higher        than that of     peptide immunogen 402OKc. Similar
immunogenicity as demonstrated by both ELISA and IFA was found with another peptide
immunogen 4050Kb (SEQ ID No:40) designed based on the third frame (GP5.3) when compared
to peptide immunogen 4048Kb. Frame 3 was thus considered the more favored design frame for
GP5 B cell epitope cluster antigen presentation.
        In order to broaden the viral strain coverage, we therefore proceeded to design a few
related combinatorial peptide antigens, based on amino acid sequence frame 3, such as peptide
immunogen 4052Kb (SEQ ID No:41) and peptide 4124 Kb (SEQ ID No: 42) to test for breadth
in antibody reactivity when compared to single sequence GP5 peptides 4048a (SEQ ID No: 9)
and 4050a (SEQ ID No: 31). Dual reactivity with MD001 and JXA1 derived GP5.3 frame
sequences was found for immune sera derived from immunization with peptide 4052Kb (SEQ ID
No: 41) thus demonstrating the breadth of coverage of both MD001 and JXA1. GP5.3 peptide
antigens 4124a (SEQ ID No: 30) and 4124Kb (SEQ ID No: 42) were designed to further expand
the combinatorial nature of the peptide immunogens and compared for their respective
immunogenicity. As shown in Table 8, significant enhancement of immunogenicity, as shown by
both ELISA and IFA, was found with peptide 4124Kb when compared to the peptide antigen
4124a showing the immunogenicity enhancing effect of the artificial combinatorial Th peptide
(SEQ ID No:35) when linked to the peptide antigen 4124a. Reduction of amino acids at both the
                                                 36

N- and C-terminus to retain the looped structure of GP5 had led to the design of peptide antigen
4094a (SEQ ID No: 35) and its more immunogenic form peptide antigen 4094Kb (SEQ ID
No:43). Both peptide antigens showed reduced immunogenicity after such sequence trimming,
thus the artificially constructed loop structure (C24-C48) remains a critical part of the GP5
ectodomain and enhanced immunogenicity therefrom can be optimally built-in by extending
from both the N-and C-termini into the structure of peptide antigen 4124a and 4124Kb.
        In all assessments, attachment of artificial combinatorial Th peptide (SEQ ID No:35) to
either the C-terminus as shown in the case of peptide antigens 4020b and 4020c, resulting at
4020Kb and 4020Kc, or at the N-terminus such as 4124a resulting at 4124Kb, all facilitated the
respective peptide antigen to become a better peptide immunogen. Peptide antigens of the
peptide 4094 and 4124 series were made into emulsion vaccine formulations for follow up
PRRSV GP5 based challenge study by PRRSV JXA1 strain as described in Example 7 with
peptide immunogen 4124Kb demonstrating success in           protecting fully (20/20=100%) naYve
piglets from infection by the highly pathogenic PRRSV JXA1 strain even with single
administration of the emulsion (group 5), while peptide immunogen 4094 series exerted a
suboptimal protection (4/5=80%) after two doses of immunizations.
Effect of PRRSV Ectodomain M peptide on GP5 B Epitope Cluster Peptide Antigen's
immunogenicity.
        GP5 and M are the most abundant proteins in the PRRSV envelope and the two proteins
form a disulfide linked heterodimer in their ecodomain to act as the ligand to the sialoadhesin
receptor (CD163) on the cell surface of the macrophages. The full length M ectodomain peptide
antigen (26mer in length) was prepared and mixed at ratios of 1:1 and 1:10 with the full length
GP5 ectomain peptide immunogens 4020Kb or 4020Kc to assess the impact of this ectodomain
M peptide on the immunogenicity of both GP5 ectodomain peptide antigens 4020Kb and
4020Kc.
        As shown in Table 9, the 26mer ectodomain M peptide was found surprisingly
immunogenic when mixed at equal ratio with the GP5 peptide immunogen 4020Kb and 4020Kc
with the relative immunogenicity of M to GP5 peptide immunogens 4020Kb and 4020Kc ranked
at about 1000- and 100- fold respectively as measured by peptide based ELISA (comparison of
Groups 1 and 2; of Groups 3, 4 and 5). IFA titers for GP5 peptide immunogen 4020Kc were also
                                                 37

significantly suppressed in a dose dependent manner (comparison of Groups 3, 4 and 5). Since
the ligand-receptor interaction is dependent on the lectin activity of sialoadhesin on the
macrophages and the sialic acids on the GP5 glycoprotein, it is therefore important to preserve
the immunogenicity of GP5 to allow elicitation of antibodies to bind to this major protein in the
PRRSV envelope. The M peptide, despite the suggested covalent linkage to GP5 on the envelope
thus being a part of the GP5/M complex as the ligand, was therefore left out in our follow-up
PRRSV vaccine design in the B cell epitope cluster peptide antigen based component.
Effect of Varying Doses of PRRSV Th Pool on the IFA titers of the PRRSV GP5 B cell
Epitope Cluster Peptide Antigens.
        GP5 peptide antigen 4094a representing the central looped structure (C24-C48) of the
GP5 ectodomain domain having a suboptimal immunogenicity was used for this study in piglets
to explore the effect of varying doses of PRRSV Th peptides on the B cell epitope cluster peptide
antigen's immunogenicity. A mixture of PRRSV Th epitope cluster peptides at equal ratio was
further supplemented to the 4094a peptide antigen (SEQ ID No: 31) at 5%, 10%, 20% to 50%.
The vaccine formulations containing both the B cell epitope cluster antigenic peptides and the T
cell epitope cluster peptide antigens were given to piglets through a standard immunization
protocol with a prime and a boost protocol at a 30ug/mL suboptimal dose to monitor the effect of
such PRRSV Th peptide on the immunogenicity of peptide antigen 4094a (Group 1 to group 4).
Although the immunogenicity as measured by ELISA was not significantly changed for these
groups monitored, the IFA titers demonstrated an improvement in the cross-reactivity of the
elicited anti-peptide antibodies in these piglets to the native PRRSV GP5 protein in a dose
dependent manner. For comparison, the GP5 B cell epitope cluster peptide immunogen 4094Kb
(SEQ ID No: 43) with a combinatorial Th epitope covalently linked to the 4094a (Sequence ID
No 31) (group 5) was also shown to have improved immunogenicity relative to the peptide
antigen 4094a alone. These short PRRSV Th peptides (SEQ ID Nos: 47-79), known to mount
cell mediated immunity against PRRSV through a recall response upon exposure to PRRSV after
priming the immunized the host, were not covalently linked to the B cell epitope cluster peptide
antigen. Improvement of the quality of the antibody reactivity as shown by the improved IFA
titers was indicative of the benefit of such a T cell mediated immune response. In order to mount
broad based cell mediated immunity including cytokine production against PRRSV upon
                                                  38

exposure to PRRSV, these carefully selected PRRSV Th peptides were included in the vaccine
formulations along with the PRRSV B cell epitope cluster peptide immunogens at 20% (w/w) in
all the follow-up challenge studies.
Identification and Design of highly Immunogenic GP2, GP3 and GP4 B Cell Cluster
Peptides around Antigenic Sites with Neutralizing Activity.
         In light of the recent findings that polyclonal antibodies bound to antigenic peptides
derived from the GP2, GP3 and GP4 proteins also exerted neutralizing activities against PRRSV
and that these minor proteins of the PRRSV envelope are also somewhat involved in clinical and
virological protection against PRRSV, specific antigenic peptides GP2 B epitope (V111-Li36)
(SEQ ID No: 6), GP3 B epitope (C57-C75) (SEQ ID No: 11), GP4 B epitope (C52-C69) (SEQ
ID No: 12 as shown in Table 3 were designed based on PRRSV JXA1 strain sequence and
identified as candidate peptide antigens for immunogenicity and cross-reactivities assessment.
These B epitope cluster peptide antigens were individually linked to an artificial combinatorial
Th peptide (SEQ ID No: 35) at the N-terminus as GP2, 3, and 4 B cell epitope cluster antigenic
peptides (SEQ ID Nos. 44-46) for immunogenicity assessment in guinea pigs.
         Vaccine formulations containing individually the specifically designed GP2, GP3 and
GP4 B Cell Cluster Peptides around the antigenic sites with neutralizing activity, with or without
linkage to the artificial combinatorial Th sequence, were tested in guinea pigs for assessment of
their respective immunogenicity. Out of the many peptide immunogens designed, the three
peptides (SEQ ID Nos: 44, 45, and 46) with artificial combinatorial Th peptide linkage at the N
terminus showed surprisingly high immunogenicity even upon single administration at a 30ug
dose as shown in Table 11. These highly immunogenic peptides are therefore outstanding
candidates for incorporation into final formulations for PRRSV vaccine.
Immunogenicity Assessment for the combined GP2, GP3, GP4 and GP5 Epitope Cluster
Peptide Immunogens in Guinea Pigs.
         After refinement of the design for each of the B cell epitope cluster peptide antigens
derived from PRRSV GP2, 3, 4 and 5 proteins, combinations of these peptides mixed in an equal
ratio in a standard emulsion based vaccine formulation at a total peptide concentration of
30ug/mL for initial priming and 15ug/mL at 3 wpi for follow-up boost were tested for the
individual peptide antigen's immunogenicity when admixted with other peptide antigens, and
                                                 39

also to assess the overall immunogenicity of the peptide antigen mixtures to assess and avoid any
unintended suppression of the immunogenicity of one or more antigens within the mixture. This
assessment was carried out to avoid the negative impact by M peptide on the GP5/M peptide
antigen mixture.
        As shown in Table 12, when GP4 B epitope cluster peptide antigen (SEQ ID No: 46) was
admixed with GP3 B epitope cluster peptide antigen (SEQ ID No: 45) as a GP3/4 combo
formulation, and with GP3 (SEQ ID No: 45) and GP 5 (SEQ ID No: 42) as a GP3/4/5 combo
formulation, or with GP2 (SEQ ID No: 44) and GP3 (SEQ ID No: 45) as a GP2/3/4 combo
formulation, GP4 peptide antigen's immunogenicity judged by target peptide based ELISA
remained strong when mixed with GP3 target peptide, but was significantly weakened when
presented in a triple peptide antigen mixture. The immunogenicity of GP2 and GP3 epitope
cluster peptide antigens remained as immunogenic as single peptide antigen when compared to
GP4 peptide antigen. GP2 and GP3 epitope cluster peptide antigens therefore can be used more
robustly in any PRRSV peptide antigen mixtures to enhance the breadth of the immune response
coverage. Despite the fact that GP2, GP3 and GP4 are minor components on the viral envelope,
reasonable IFA titers showing cross-reactivities with the corresponding native PRRSV protein
antigens were obtained by peptide antigen mixtures in the absence of the GP5 antigen peptide
(e.g. Groups 1, 2 and 4).
                                         EXAMPLE 6
GP5 derived peptide based PRRSV vaccine, supplemented with PRRSV Th epitope cluster
peptide antigens, protected piglets from challenge by PRRSV MD001 strain.
        To prove the efficacy of the PRRSV GP5 B cell Epitope Cluster Peptide Antigens in
protecting pigs from PRRSV infection, three consecutive immunization and challenge studies
were conducted by Animal Technology Institute, Taiwan (ATIT). In order to objectively evaluate
the vaccine formulations produced by the PRRSV GP5 B Epitope Cluster Peptide Antigens, all
formulations were coded.      The SPF pigs were regularly monitored to ensure freedom from
pathogens including Classical Swine Fever, Pseudorabies, Atrophic rhinitis, Mycoplasma
hyopneumoniae, Foot and Mouth Disease, Swine Dysentery, Scabies, and Actinobacillus
pleuropneumoniae. All groups from the PRRS 1OOS, 1002S and 1003S studies employed GP5
                                                40

B epitope Cluster Peptide Immunogens 402OKc (SEQ ID No: 38) and 4052Kb (SEQ ID No: 41)
and had minor variations in some formulation parameters. These formulations were considered
equivalent with groups 1 and 2 as 402OKc antigenic peptide and groups 3 and 4 as 4052Kb
antigenic peptide derived vaccine formulations. A pooled equal ratio PRRSV Th epitope peptide
mixture (SEQ ID Nos: 47, 51, 52, 55, 59, 61, 63, 67, 70, 74, 76 based on JXA1 sequence) was
supplemented in the respective vaccine formulations at 10% by weight to further enhance the
immunogenicity, through provision of cell-mediated immunity, the immunogenicity of the
PRRSV GP5 peptide antigens.
         In order not to contaminate the Transgenic SPF farm, the studies were conducted at two
sites with only the immunization portion being conducted at the Transgenic SPF farm which
provided the four week-old SPF pigs for entry into these immunization/challenge studies. This
farm is operated by ATIT and located in an isolated area of Hsian Shan, Hsin Chu in the northern
part of Taiwan. After completion of the 4 week prime and boost immunization protocol, the SPF
pigs were transferred to another well-controlled farm in the southern part of Taiwan for the
challenge studies. Since American strains of PRRSV are prevalent in Taiwan, two American
strains, MD-001 and AMERVAC-PRRS, were adopted for use in these challenge studies. After
virus challenge, the serum samples were collected for IFA and viremia testing. Finally, the
animals were euthanized and subjected to gross inspection and pathology examination. The SPF
piglets were divided into groups based on study design with 5 animals per group. Blood samples
were collected as indicated in Table 13. All serum samples collected were tested by PRRSV
ORF5 IFA test (by rVV-PRRS ORF5 expression method).
Clinical observation after injection
         All piglets before and after each vaccine administration    were subjected to clinical
observation     for local (including site reactogenicity and allergic response) and     systemic
(including dyspnea, appetite, diarrhea, cough, CNS/SS, and allergic response) responses. During
the study, occasional local site reactogenicity related swelling was found which persisted no
more than 3-4 days and       returning to normal condition with no further difference observed.
There was no systemic adverse response observed for all animals being studied.
Clinical observation after virus challenge
         All immunized pigs showed no clinical signs typical of PRRS during the period
                                                41

monitored after receiving the virus challenge.
IFA detection and lung lesion after immunization and challenge
        The specific antibodies against PRRSV were produced after immunization and reached
high titers as detected by IFA at 4 and 6 wpi (weeks post immunization) as shown in Table 14.
As shown in Table 14, none of the animals in the control group elicited antibodies to PRRSV
GP5 protein even after the PRRSV challenge study, mostly due to the weak immunogenicity
nature of the PRRSV GP5 protein when presented in the challenge virus stock. The vaccinated
group maintained high IFA titers after virus challenge at 2 wpc (weeks post challenge). Out of
the 20 piglets immunized with PRRSV GP 5 B epitope cluster peptide antigen vaccine
formulations (4020KC for groups 1 and 2 and 4052Kb for groups 3 and 4) 18 were fully
protected (a protection rate of 90%) without any lesion detected. In two of the piglets in groups 3
and 4, slight lesion was detected. In contrast, 80% (4/5) of the pigs were found with severe
lesions with interstitial pneumonia as shown in Figures 7A and 7B. Based on the extensive
challenge testing conducted in the PRRSV laboratory of ATIT, higher IFA titers with PRRSV
GP5 protein correlated well with full protection against PRRSV challenges.
Viremia detection
        Using PR-PCR method for PRRSV viral load detection, no detectable viral load was
found in all vaccinated pigs. This represents the concordance with the results of protection
efficacy in   the lung. Although the two virus     strains do not cause serious symptoms after
infection, the lack of viremia and complete lack of pathological results in the 18/20 vaccinated
pigs demonstrated the proven concept of the positive protection efficacy offered by the PRRSV
GP5 peptide based vaccine formulations.
                                          EXAMPLE 7
GP5 derived peptide based PRRSV vaccine, supplemented with PRRSV Th epitope cluster
peptide antigens, protected piglets from challenge by highly pathogenic PRRSV (NVDC
JXA1 strain) after both a single and a prime-and-boost immunization schedules.
                                                42

Background of the China PRRSV JXA1 Challenge model:
        In 2006, there were unparalleled large-scale outbreaks of an initially unknown, but so
called "high fever" disease in China with the essence of PRRS, which spread to more than 10
provinces (autonomous cities or regions) and affected over 2,000,000 pigs with approximately
400,000 fatal cases. Dissimilar from typical PRRS, numerous adult sows were also infected by
the "high fever" disease. This atypical PRRS pandemic was initially identified as a hog cholera
like disease manifesting neurological symptoms (e.g., shivering), high fever (40-42'C),
erythematous blanching rash, etc. Autopsies combined with immunological analyses clearly
showed that multiple organs were infected by highly pathogenic PRRSVs with severe
pathological changes observed. In a concerted effort by Kegong Tian et al, (2007 PLosOne doi:
10.1371/ joumal.pone.0000526)       on Emergence      of Fatal PRRSV Variants: Unparalleled
Outbreaks of Atypical PRRS in China and Molecular Dissection of the Unique Hallmark, a pig
infection model was established in China to reproduce the high pathogenicity of the isolated
PRRSV with three representative PRRSV isolates with different origins (JXA1, HEBI, and
HUB2) for challenge of 12 SPF-pigs (4 piglets/group).
        In each group, two of the piglets were intravenously injected and both died within 6-8
days, implying the high virulence of the tested PRRSV strains. Similarly, the two other piglets in
each group were intranasally inoculated, and they developed marked signs of "high fever"
disease (e.g., high fever, blood spots, petechiae, shivering, and lamping etc.) within 3-6 days,
and both died on day 10 post-infection. Subsequently, viral isolates were successfully recovered
from the infected pigs and confirmed by PCR detection and EM. Autopsies were undertaken to
evaluate the immunological effects and pathological lesions. Almost the same pathological
changes (in lung, heart, brain, kidney, liver, etc.) were observed in pigs killed during the "high
fever" epidemic, thus confirmed that the 2006 outbreak of "high fever" disease in China was
caused by highly pathogenic PRRSV infection in pig populations. One of the PRRSV isolate
JXAl is now used as the standard virus in a standardized challenge study to validate the
protective efficacy of PRRSV vaccines in piglets as per PRC guidelines.
Definition of valid PRRSV challenge and efficacy of vaccine according to PRC government
vaccine product guidelines:
        Four-week old piglets were vaccinated either once or twice with peptide based PRSRV
                                                 43

vaccine formulations with a 2-week interval, while one group was kept as non-vaccinated
controls. All of them were challenged intramuscularly behind the ear with PRRSV NVDC-JXA1
highly pathogenic virus 3mL (containing 1OE5 TCID50). Body temperature was observed daily
for 21 days. The challenge study is considered valid when 5/5 animals become sick upon
challenge with fevers and at least 2/5 are dead. Immunized pigs would need to have at least 4/5
remain healthy for the vaccine to be considered protective.
Challenge study conducted by UBI in collaboration with an Animal Health Vaccine
company in Nanking, PRC 2011 with summary report:
        A total of 35 pigs were screened for seronegativity, with 30 of them being selected for
this challenge study according to the guidelines issued by Ministry of Agriculture of PRC as
described above. Detailed animal selection, randomization, grouping, immunization and
challenge study, temperature observation and record, and mortality are described below:
        Healthy piglets at 28-days of age from a farm in Wuxi, Jiangsu province, China were
selected. The trial was conducted at a vaccine potency/viral challenge test center in a Nanking
based animal health vaccine company. PRRS antibody testing kit (LSI company, France), lot #:
2-VERPRA-001, Exp. 2012-01 and PRRS antigen testing kit: PRRS RT-PCR in-vitro diagnostic
kit (NSP2 1594-1680 variant strain) were used to select the PRRSV free animals. PRRS virulent
strain (NVCD-JXA1) was used for the challenge test by making 10-times dilution of the stock
and administered to the animals at 3 ml per animal.
        A total of 35 healthy piglets from the farm were selected for screening, and 30 were
enrolled for this study. All selected piglets tested negative for PRRS antigen and antibody in
serum. All enrolled piglets were assigned randomly into 6 groups, groups 1 - 6; with 5 animals
per group. Intramuscular injection was placed at a site located directly behind the ear on the side
of the pig's neck muscle. The immunization dosages and groups are listed in Table 15 (performed
under code so as to be objective).
        Group 1 was immunized with PRRSV GP5 peptide (GP5 B epitope cluster peptide
antigen 4094 series, SEQ ID No: 43) based vaccine supplemented with a pool of equal ratio
PRRSV endogenous T helper epitope peptides (SEQ ID Nos: 47, 51, 52, 55, 59, 61, 63, 67, 70,
74, 76 based on JXA1 sequence) at 20% by weight.
                                                44

         For groups 2 to 5, PRRSV GP5 peptide (GP5 B epitope cluster peptide antigen 4124,
SEQ ID No: 42) was used as the immunogen. The final peptide concentration in the vaccine
formulation was at 30ug/mL. This formulation also included a pool of PRRSV endogenous T
helper epitope peptides (SEQ ID Nos: 47, 51, 52, 55, 59, 61, 63, 67, 70, 74, 76 based on JXA1
sequence) mixed at an equal ratio and supplemented with the PRRSV B epitope immunogen
(SEQ ID No: 42) at 10% (i.e. 27.5ug B: 2.5ug T pool), 20% (i.e. 25ug B : 5ug T pool) and 50%
(i.e. 20ug B : lOug T pool) by weight for groups 2, 3, and 4 respectively. Animals in Group 5
received the same vaccine formulation as group 4 except they were only given a single
administration.
         Group 6 was the negative control group that was not immunized with any peptide.
         The antibody screening results for a1130 piglets initially enrolled in the study are shown in
Table 16. The results of all samples from pigs tested for PRRSV antigen by RT-PCR prior to
immunization showed 30 out of 30 being negative, while the test kit's positive control found an
amplified band of 185 base pairs, which validated the testing system. All animal numbers after
randomization are shown in Table 17. Results of PRRSV antibody OD values are shown for day
0 and day 28 post initial immunization in Table 18. Body temperature and mortality after PRRSV
JXAl challenge were observed with temperature (in C) shown in Table 19.
         In summary, all piglets in the control group (Group 6) became sick during the first few
days of post viral challenge as shown in Table 19, with two dying (2/5=40% mortality rate) as
shown in Table 20. The outcome of the control group receiving no vaccination under the
challenge study met the validity criteria and guidelines of the challenge study as instituted by
Ministry of Agriculture, PRC. In contrast to the control group, the animals in Group 1 were
protected with a survival rate of 80% (four out of five animals) and a mortality rate of only 20%.
Furthermore, all of the animals (20 out of 20) in Groups 2 - 5 were protected, thus resulting in a
100% protection.
         When combining all 25 animals receiving GP5 B epitope cluster peptide antigen based
vaccine formulations as one major study (i.e., Groups 1 - 5), 24 out of 25 animals survived the
challenge by the highly pathogenic PRRSV virus strain JXA1 with only a 4% mortality rate. This
result is surprising when compared to the control group where 40% of the pigs died during the
early days upon challenge with all five piglets becoming sick thereafter, resulting in a 100%
                                                  45

morbidity rate.
                                          EXAMPLE 8
Multi-component PRRSV peptide vaccine to elicit broadly protective antibodies against
PRRSV.
        PRRSV contains the major glycoprotein, GP5, as well as three other minor glycoproteins,
namely, GP2a, GP3, and GP4, on the virion envelope, all of which are required for generation of
infectious virions. A strong interaction was found to exist between the GP4 and GP5 proteins,
although weak interactions among the other minor envelope glycoproteins (GP2 and GP3) and
GP5 have also been detected resulting in the formation of multiprotein complex. Overall, it was
concluded that the GP4 protein is critical for mediating interglycoprotein interactions and, along
with GP2a, serves as the viral attachment protein, in addition to GP5, that is responsible for
mediating interactions with CD 163 for virus entry into susceptible host cell.
        Due to the high variability of PRRSV, development of a broadly effective PRRSV
vaccine will require protection of multiple viral strains. With the already demonstrated protection
efficacy of four GP5 based PRRSV vaccine formulations (GP5 B epitope peptide antigen
402OKc of SEQ ID No: 38, peptide antigen 4052Kb of SEQ ID No: 41, 4094Kb of SEQ ID No:
43 and 4124Kb of SEQ ID No: 42) with the supplement of a pool of endogenous PRRSV Th
peptides (SEQ ID Nos: 47, 51, 52, 55, 59, 61, 63, 67, 70, 74, 76 based on JXA1 sequence for
pool 1 and SEQ ID Nos: 80-90 for pool 2) as the corner stone of the PRRSV marker vaccine
component, it would be highly desirable to incorporate antigenic peptides representing
demonstrated functional neutralizing/receptor binding sites in the peptide mixture for elicitation
of polyclonal antibodies at the multi-protein receptor complex to allow development of a potent
multi-component PRRSV vaccine with broad viral coverage.
        With GP2, GP3, and GP4 antigenic peptide binding antibodies showing significant
neutralizing property against PRRSV(8), peptide antigens around these selected regions were
designed and screened for the most potent peptide immunogen from each of the proteins as
shown in Example 5. These peptide immunogens were incorporated in various formulations as
multi-component PRRSV peptide vaccines aiming at broad coverage of viral strains. With the
                                                 46

availability of sophisticated analytical LC/MS/MS tools and well controlled GMP peptide
manufacturing process, a reproducible vaccine formulation, customized for regional use (e.g.
North American vs. European ), can be rationally developed.
                                         EXAMPLE 9
Application of UBI DIVA system and an epitope based marker vaccine to identify PRRSV
infected animals, vaccinated but PRRSV free animals, or vaccinated and PRRSV infected
animals
        As shown in Example 1, a UBI PRRSV NC ELISA test kit was established by combining
two antigenic peptides (4171e, SEQ ID No: 1 and 4172e, SEQ ID No: 2) from the PRRSV
nucleocapsid protein as a mixture for plate coating followed by using Protein-HRP conjugate as
the tracer for detection of PRRSV infected animals. This test can be used in conjunction with
target peptide based ELISAs customized for the monitoring of immunogenicity of an efficacious
PRRSV marker peptide vaccine, to form a PRRSV DIVA system for differentiation of infected
and vaccinated animals.
        As shown in Figure 5, sera from normal piglets (n=109) known through prior screening
to be PRRSV negative before entering the PRRSV vaccine immunogenicity studies, showed a
high specificity (109-1/109=99%) with the UBI PRRSV NC ELISA test. Next to this group, sera
from pigs (n= 45) receiving PRRSV GP5 marker vaccine formulations known to have high titers
of antibodies to GP5 as shown by target peptide based ELISA (Log1O titer>=3) with cross
reactivity to native PRRSV GP5 protein, scored negative by the PRRSV NC ELISA test,
demonstrated even further the specificity of the test. The ELISA reading for the three sera
groups shown in the middle were from pedigreed IFA positive sera from infected animals. These
samples showed increasing ELSIA OD450nm readings in parallel to IFA titers. Sera from the far
right were samples (n=100) collected from a US farm known to have PRRSV infection. A
seropositive rate of >56% with the UBI PRRSV NC ELISA was found, indicative of a high
prevalence of PRRSV infection in this farm.
        When the UBI PRRSV NC ELISA and UBI PRRSV B epitope marker vaccine target
peptide based ELISAs were used in combination to monitor the immunogenicity of the PRRSV
                                               47

marker vaccine formulations in a farm in Taiwan known to have PRRSV infection, several pieces
of insightful information were obtained.
        First, as shown in Figures 6A and 6B, all pigs enrolled for the PRRSV vaccine
immunogenicity study were found positive with PRRSV NS ELISA with s/c ratios far higher
than the cutoff value. Such infection is indicated in the figure highlighted under a grey
background as all animals tested were infected. Second, despite the presence of high levels of
PRRSV NC reactive antibodies in these piglets, mostly maternally derived (MDA), all peptide
based PRRSV vaccine formulations demonstrated significant immunogenicity as detected by the
respective target peptide based ELISAs. As shown in Figures 6A and 6B where every animal was
monitored for its peptide specific antibody titers against component peptide antigens contained in
the vaccine formulation received throughout the 0, 4 and 6 weeks period after initial
immunization. Amongst the vaccine formulations (GP2+GP3, GP3, GP3+GP4, GP4, or GP5
peptide antigens) each containing a total of 30ug/mL per dose with a prime and boost at 0 and 4
weeks schedule, independent and high immunogenicity was found to be associated with almost
all PRRSV GP2 and GP3 neutralizing site derived peptide vaccine formulations, followed by
"GP5 peptide only" vaccine formulations, with GP4 neutralizing site derived peptide antigen
showing somewhat compromised immunogencitiy when combined with other PRRSV (GP3)
peptide antigens.
        A combinatorial peptide based PRRSV vaccine incorporating PRRSV B epitope cluster
peptide immunogens designed around neutralizing and receptor binding sites from the GP2, GP3,
GP4 and GP5 proteins for elicitation of neutralizing antibodies, supplemented by a mixture of
endogenous PRRSV T helper peptides to facilitate cell mediated immunity, are being planned for
challenge studies by PRRSV MDOO1 and JXA1 strains, both of the North American type.
                                          EXAMPLE 10
Adoption of UBI's PRRSV peptide based marker vaccine and its diagnostic DIVA system
for eradication of PRRSV infection in a SPF farm
        Since the PRRSV B epitope cluster peptide antigens employed in the marker vaccine
formulations do not include antigenic peptides from the PRRSV nucleocapsid protein while
                                                 48

infected pigs typically develop early antibodies against this major structure protein, it is logical
to incorporate PRRSV NC ELISA and PRRSV B epitope marker vaccine target peptide based
ELISAs into a diagnostic system for differentiation of infected from vaccinated animals, thus a
diagnostic DIVA system.
         UBI's PRRSV peptide based marker vaccine can elicit high titers of IFA positive cross
reactive antibodies against the neutralizing and receptor binding sites on the PRRSV proteins.
Such marker vaccine formulations can more effectively prevent PRRSV infection than the MLV
or viral lysate based PRRSV vaccines due to the very weak immunogenicity nature of these
proteins when presented in its current biological vaccine format.
         The combined use of UBI's diagnostic DIVA system and its PRRSV marker vaccine will
be implemented at a Taiwan SPF farm based on the following strategy to rid of its long term
problem with the PRRSV infection. This SPF farm has maintained a rigorous monitoring record
for all pathogens and it has only PRRSV infection. The farm cannot eliminate its current PRRSV
infection by conventional biological vaccines without incurring significant biosecurity risks.
Employing UBI's PRRSV peptide based marker vaccine will not present any such biosecurity
risks due to the chemical nature of the vaccine.
Strategy for PRRSV eradication in a PRRSV infected SPF farm.
         The farm will maintain a vaccination program with UBI's PRRSV peptide based marker
vaccine for at least two years. All pigs inside the farm will be vaccinated using a 0, 4 and 8
weeks immunization schedule and monitored for at least six months. Serum antibody titers
against NC and marker vaccine target peptides will be monitored along with the PRRSV viremia
level by assays including PRRSV NC ELISA, IFA and quantitative PCR (qPCR). After six
months into the vaccination program, piglets born to mothers with vaccination will not receive
vaccination and be monitored for 1 to 3 months by the UBI PRRSV NC for rate of infection in
these piglets. When all piglets demonstrate negative reactivity with UBI PRRSV NC ELISA, the
farm can be considered under control against PRRSV infection. The farm will then retire all pigs
with prior PRRSV infection. Until such retirement, all pigs in the farm will be continuously
vaccinated by the PRRSV peptide based marker vaccine.
         The farm will continue vaccination of all pigs with PRRSV peptide based marker vaccine
to enhance the pigs' immunity against PRRSV.
                                                 49

        When newly populated piglets and sows are found PRRSV free based on their sera's
negative reactivity with PRRSV NC ELISA, the farm can be declared PRRSV free, thus success
of the PRRSV eradication program.
Indicators for use in monitoring:
        UBI's PRRSV NC ELISA and PRRSV marker vaccine target peptide based ELISAs, thus
the DIVA, can be used to monitor sera from all animals in the farm for reactivity consistency.
Percent positive rate and Mean OD values derived from the PRRSV NC ELISA are recorded
during the period of vaccination and monitoring.
        Piglets less than one month old which may have maternal antibodies against PRRSV NC
protein, thus showing as positives with PRRSV NC ELISA, will decrease with time. When there
is no PRRSV in circulation in the environment, i.e. no new infection, these piglets will also
become PRRSV free. The farm will accelerate to retire the PRRSV infected sows. Being treated
with   PRRSV marker peptide vaccine will further reduce the residual risk for the release of
PRRSV into the environment from previously infected sows, thus allowing the whole farm to
reach PRRSV free status. Table 21 sets the sample size requirement for such testing, at a 95%
confidence level, for the probability of detecting one PRRSV positive pig.
Pilot PRRSV clearance study employing DIVA and multi-component PRRSV peptide
immunogen based vaccine formulations:
        A pilot PRRSV clearance study, monitored by serological means through DIVA, was
executed in a regular PRRSV infected farm by employing water-in-oil (ISA 50) emulsion based
vaccine formulations containing multi-component PRRSV peptide immunogens to assess the
potential for negative seroconversion for PRRSV NC antibodies by those receiving such multi
component PRRSV peptide immunogen based vaccine formulations.
        More specifically, a total of 15 piglets at 4 weeks of age, which tested positive by PRRSV
NC ELISA, were put into five experimental groups for the study. The piglets were immunized
based on a 0, 4, 8 weeks immunization and bleeding schedule and monitored for a 13 weeks
period from date of the initial immunization. PRRSV B peptide immunogens from GP5 (SEQ
ID No: 42), GP2 (SEQ ID No: 44), GP3 (SEQ ID No: 45) and GP4 (SEQ ID No: 46) were mixed
in various combinations (e.g. GP5, GP2, GP3, and GP4 for groups 1 and 2; GP5, GP3 and GP4
                                                   50

for group 3; GP3 and GP4 for group 4) at an equal ratio at a total of 25 ug/mL per dose for
PRRSV B peptide immunogens.         The formulations were further supplemented with 20% by
weight (i.e. 5ug/mL per dose) of PRRSV Th peptides (SEQ ID. Nos: 47, 51, 52, 55, 59, 61, 63,
67, 70, 74, and 76 mixed also at an equal ratio) for group 2, and PRRSV Th combinatorial
peptides (SEQ ID NOs: 80-90) for groups 1, 3 and 4. Serum antibody reactivities against NC
were monitored by PRRSV NC ELISA to determine PRRSV infection, while serum antibody
titers against PRRSV marker peptide vaccine B epitope components were monitored by
corresponding PRRSV GP2, GP3, GP4 and GP5 peptide based ELISAs for immunogenicity
offered by the various vaccine formulations. Animals in group 5 received no PRRSV peptide
based vaccine formulation and served as a negative control group.
        All of the pigs from groups 1 to 4 developed antibodies against their respective marker
vaccine target PRRSV B GP2, GP3, GP4 and GP5 peptides, as detected by respective PRRSV
peptide based ELISAs with specific antibody titers higher than 3Logio after a second
immunization at 4 weeks from initial immunization and remain high throughout the 13 weeks
period monitored. However, antibody reactivities against PRRSV NC protein increased to peak
reactivities at around 6 to 8 weeks after initial immunization and then declined to near baseline
by 10 weeks after initial immunization and remained at the baseline at 13 weeks after initial
immunization during the monitoring period as shown in Table 22.
        In contrast, sera from animals in group 5 receiving no vaccine formulation containing
PRRSV peptide based immunogens all maintained high reactivities with the PRRSV NC protein.
Since antibody to PRRSV NC protein is known to present in infected pigs, the surprising finding
of such negative seroconversion for PRRSV NC in pigs vaccinated with the multi-component
PRRSV peptide immunogen based vaccine formulations further validated the efficacy of the
multi-component PRRSV peptide based vaccine formulations. The application of DIVA and the
multi-component PRRSV peptide immunogen based vaccine formulations thus have wide
applications and serve an urgent need for monitoring, prevention, clearance and eradication of
PRRSV infection.
                                                  51

              0
                                       E-1   E
                                2    .          .2
                                           ga
                          4u    CO         Cq
  CL.
                         rn     OM~
                                  *        a) rn
I-~~                   u                       rnZ
              0H          H          z
        z~           Q                 O
                Ot   C
      E    CL CL4    0OtC
      00             M    U
                             0)   a)       0)
                                Z       4      P4
                   52            MO

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Table 2
                             Serological Validation of PRRSV INIC ELISA by Pedigreed PRRSV Serum Samples
                                                                                   Swine ID#                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             UBI PRRSV N ELISA
                                                                                                                                                                                                      I                                PRRSV IFA Titers -7                                                                                                                                                                                                        A450
                                                                                                   146                                                                                                                                                                    16                                                                                                                                                                                    0.747
                                                                                                   159                                                                                                                                                                    32                                                                                                                                                                                    3.385
                                                                                                   160                                                                                                                                                                    32                                                                                                                                                                                     0.299
                                                                                                   184                                                                                                                                                                    32                                                                                                                                                                                    2.962
                                                                                                   185                                                                                                                                                                    32                                                                                                                                                                                    3.132
                                                                                                   229                                                                                                                                                                     16                                                                                                                                                                                    0.273
                                                                                                   261                                                                                                                                                                    16                                                                                                                                                                                    0.741
                                                                                                   211                                                                                                                                                                    32                                                                                                                                                                                    2.659
                                                                                                   213                                                                                                                                                                    32                                                                                                                                                                                    3.755
                                                                                                   246                                                                                                                                                                    32                                                                                                                                                                                     1.603                                                                                                  ....
.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
......................
              -,,,-,,,-,,,-,,,-,,""","",',                                - ---,,,,,,-
                                                                  -........           --- --- 24 2 ,--,,,--,.......                    -,,,--,,-,--,,-,--,,-,--,,-,--,,,.......                            ---,-,    - - - - ,,,,,,,,,,,,,-
                                                                                                                                                                                           - - ........................                      - - - --                                         -,,-,-,,-,-,,-,-,,-,-,,-,-,,-,-,,-,-,,-,--                      - ---- -- -- ---- -- --- -...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -,, -.........................................                                                 , - --                                                                                                                  - ...
......................
,......................
 ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,-                  - -- -- -- -................
              -.....................                             .......        -                    -    -      -        -       ,  ,
                                                                                                                               ...........................                              -.......
                                                                                                                                                                                         -,--,--       .
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,,,,,,,,,,,,,-::
                                                                                                                                                                                                       -         -       -   .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                       .............................. -      -     -     -     --      12-       -  8  -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -.............................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,    -    .......       -    -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ..........................-     -     -   ,-,     .........................................                                                             , ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ... , 3M    ,,, .a ...........................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::   ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -     -     -     -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ....................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ',- .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -    ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .....
 ------------
  --------                    -                                          -   -   - - - - - ---------                  -------------.................         .......              -       -- ...................................................................                                                                                     ..............................................
               .....................
  --.....................     --- --- --- --- .......
               -..............................                   -- -- -........                                    -..............................
                                                                                    - --2 48 ,...............................
                                                                                                                      ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,-,,,-,,,-,.........
                                                                                  .......
                                                                                 ........
                                                                                                                                                                  - - -.......
                                                                                                                                                                                       ,,-,,,-,,, -,.............................                                                         ,---------
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,,--,-,,--,-,,--,-,,--,-,,-,....................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,,-,,,-,,,-,,,-,,1 2 8 .............................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -,,,-,,,-,,,-,,,-,,,-,,,-,,,-.......                           ,,---,,,-..........................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -- ---,..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ......                       - - - - - - - .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -,,,-,,-,-,,-,-,,-,-,,-,-,,-,-,,-..............                - - -- --             - -3 -4        , 9 7 ...........................                   ,,,-,,,-,,,-,,,-,,,-,,,-,""","',
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ..........................                                       , ....
                -......................
                 -,,,,---,,,---,,,---,,,---,,""",",",                                                                                                                                                  -...................................................................                                                                          ..........................                                                                                                                      ..............                                                 --
   ......................
   ......................
                   -......................                         ......
                                                                   .......
                                                                   ......       - -""","2     - 4 9,,--...................... -         -     -
                                                                                                                      ,,,-,,,-,,,-,,,-,,""","",""      -        -        -        .........
                                                                                                                                                                                  -     , -     -                      -     -     -
                                                                                                                                                                                        ,,,,,,,,,,,,, ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,1  -      -     -     -    --    ,                   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         :,        -     - -   - -  - -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ............................  - -   - -   - -   --   -  ...........................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,"""""","            , , ,  , , ,  , ,   , , , , , ,      ,,00 ,,,,,,,,,..........................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,..........................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     , , , ,  , ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ""","","", , , , , ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,  ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             , ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               , ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 , ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   , ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     , ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       , ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         , ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           , ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             , ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               , ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 , ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ..............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       , ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,  , , , , , ,,,,,
   -----------                 - - - - - - - -........
                    .....................                                      , , , ,
                    .....................................................................
                                                                                         , , , , ,
                                                                                          ...........................................                           ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                    , ...................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ...................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           :2       8    ,  ,   , , , , , , , , , , ,, , , , , , , , , , , ,, , , , ,     , , ,  , , , ,, ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                - -- - - -- -,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -..........................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ...........................                                                                            ....  4- - - a- - ',.........................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .............               - - - ..............        , ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           - --,-,-,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  , ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -.......
    -------         ,......................
                          ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, --- 2SO,...............................
                     ..............................                                                                   ----------
                                                                                                                    -----------
                                                                                                                      ,   ,  ,-,,,-......................
                                                                                                                      ...............   ,  , ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,     -        -       -       -     -      ----
                                                                                                                                                                                                        .
                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ----------  -     -     -     -                               I     2       8               - - - - - - - - ---------
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -----------
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .............................                               -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ---         -     -     - -      - -     -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ..........................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -     -    -    -  -      -  - .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -      -     ---
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -   , , ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          --, , ,        ,                    ..........................                                         --
    -----------      ..............................                                                                                                            - - -.........      .........            .............................
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ---------- - - - - ........
                                                                                                                                                                                         - -- ..............................                                                              .............................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ----------                ------ ...........................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .........................                         ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ---------
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    --,----------
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              --,,,--,,,,,--,,,,-,,-,........- - - -,,,,,,,,                     .............. , ,              3      .9     1   :2     :,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    - - - - - ,................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 , ,, , ""","","",          ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ------ ...................., , , , , , ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ------- , , ,  , ,- - ---
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,  ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            - -..............,  -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,-,,,,,,,,,-,,,,,,,-,,,,,,-,,,,,-,,,,-,.......
                     .....................................................                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ..............                                   .......
    ,.....................................................
     ,...............   ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,""","",",
                     -----                                         ......
                                                                 ""","","        , , ,   , , , , , 2    6     4      -..............................
                                                                                                                      ,-
                                                                                                                      ..............................
                                                                                                                          ,  ,-,- ,  ,  -
                                                                                                                                        , -, ,- ,- ,  ,- ,- ,  ,- ,- ,  ,- -
                                                                                                                                                                           , ,  ,,.........
                                                                                                                                                                                  -,,-,,,-,-,," -,-,', -,,,,,,,,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                        .
                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                                                                                        .
                                                                                                                                                                                                        '   , ----
                                                                                                                                                                                                               , -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,   , , -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         , , , -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               , , , -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,, , ,  , -------
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               , , , , ,-, , ,-,, ,,,4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -, ,    :2       ff:,  ----------
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -  ............................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,  , ,-, , ,-, , ,-, , -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ............................. , ,-, , ,-, , ,-, , ,-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            , , ,-, , -   , ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .........,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              , -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,,,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -..........................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        , ,  ,  , ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ..............................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,                                                                , ,-, , , 'I     ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .      4     l   :   -     -     -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ..................   -     -      ',  ,-, , ,-, , ,-, , , -,, ,-,, - .....  -...
      ...............................                            ,,,,,,,
      .....................................................................                                                                                                                    ....                                                                                                                                                   ,-, - - - - ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,,,,,, ....................                                                                                               ..:......       :............................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ...........................
      -----------                                                                                                                                                                                   , ...................................................................
                     ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
      --...................... --,,,--,,,--,,,--,,,--,,,--                                                 , ..............................                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -       -
                     ,.....................                                    ,
                                                                             ,
                                                                            ,
                                                                          ,
                             ,
                          ,.....................................................
                      ..............................                     - - - --, , ,   , , , , , I   3      0        -        -
                                                                                                                      ,,,,,,,,,,,,,-      -      -        -        -       -
                                                                                                                                                                  - - .........
                                                                                                                                                                                      -     -
                                                                                                                                                                                    -.........
                                                                                                                                                                                                  -     -        -
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ..............   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                        -- -- -- -- --........
                                                                                                                                                                                           - - ..............................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -     -    -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .......-     -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            - - -- -- --12   -    -                       -  ............................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             - ........  -     -    -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        - - 8-::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .............................    -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   - - .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .........................   -     -     -    -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              - - -- -- ..........  ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -        -     -     -        -      ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -.................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -- -- -- -- .............................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ........                -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           - -,,,,,,,,,,-     -      -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              - - - .......  -      -      -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -- --- 1.0     ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ...........................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               67 ...........................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ...........................            - - - - - - ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ....................                  -
       .....................................................................
                      -----                                        .......                                                                                                                               ................                                                                                                  .............            ..............................................
       .......................
       ...............-----
       -,.....................................................................
                         ,,-,,,.........................
                                       ,,,,,,,,,""","",,           ......
                                                                 ............  ----                                         ,,,-,,,-,,,-,,,-------
                                                                                                                          -----------
                                                                                     - ,,",1 34 .............................
                                                                                                                       ,.............................        ,,,-,,,-,,,-,,,-,,,,,,-,, ----------                -,-,,-,-,,,--,,,,-,,-,,,...............
                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,..............................
                                                                                                                                                                                                          , ,...................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                             , ,                          -,-,,-,-,,-,-,,-,-,,-,-,,12 8 :,                ----------
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,  , ,-,,,-,,,-,,-,,,,-,,,-,,,-,,,-,,,-, -,...........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ............................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .............................                                  --,,-,--,,-,---,, -,,........................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -   , -,,,-,,,-,,,-,,,-,,,.......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -       -        -         -         -       , , ,  , , ,  , -,,,--  , , , ,3      ,,5    3    2     ...........................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,  ,  , ,, , ""","","",         ,  ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ......................... , , , , , , , , , , ,  ,, ,  , , , , , , , ,,,
                                                                                                                                                                              ,,,,,, , - - - - - - - - -
                      ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................                                                                                        ...........................
         -----------
         -------
         -----------       ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,I3,5 ,..............................
                      ......................
                      ,.....................
                       ..............................                                                                   --,--                ,,-,,,-,,,,-,,,,,-,,,,-,,,-,,,-,, -..............................
                                                                                                                             ,,-,-,,-,,........                                                           -         -
                                                                                                                                                                                                          ..............  -     -     -  ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -     -     ----  -    -                       ----------
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1- 2- 8-.............................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ............................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -     ........        -    -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ......................... -     -     -    -         ----------
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ..................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .........................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -      -     -     -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ...........................      -       -        -         -         -              ...     - -- 3 .24 6 -,,,-,,,.........................          , ,  , , , , , , ,  , , , ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -------- , , , , , , , ,  ,, ,  , , ,  --
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .......
                                                                                                       :                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ...............
         ---.....................
                       ,,,,,---,,,,,,---,,,,,,---,,,,,,---,,,,,,-.......
                                                                   -,,,--,,,-:-  ........
                                                                                  ..............................................
                                                                                    ,,,....
                                                                          ,,, ,........     -,,l- 3- 6- :,,,,,,,,,,,,-                                            ---------- --................                                                                - -1:2 8 - - -- ---- -- -- -- --- ..............................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                          ...................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ...     - - - ----,,,,,-              - -......                                                                                                ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,                                                                      l ,.,62j6,,                 ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,-.....................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .....................                       ,,,-,,,-,,,-,,,-,,,-,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ....
                                -- -- -- -- --,......
          --,.....................                                    ,,--
                                                                         --       ....
                                                                                  ..............................
                                                                                ........          -    -      -      -- -- -- -- ---................            -        -        -       -     -         -       --- --- --- --     -     ,  - - -.......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ..............    --                                                                             - -............................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -......              -      -     -          ........                                                             ....           .........          ........................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ....................                        ....................
           -----
           -------     ..............................
                       -----                                     .......
                                                                    ......        --                                                                                                                                                                                                       ----------                                                    -      -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ----------   -     -    -     .........................................
           -V.....................
                         VVVV-VVVVVV-VVVVV-VVVVVV-VVVVVV-VVVVVV--                 --
                                                                                  VVVVVVVV,-I                            - - - - - - - - ---- -...............
                                                                                            VVVVVVVVVV3VVVVVV8VVVVVVV,..............................                                                      - -- -- -- -- ........                 -- --,,,,,,,1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           --.......         -- -- - 2- 8-.............................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -............................                            ..................................                                                   ...     - -- 0 .69 9, -,,-,,,.........................
            --------   .....................
                       V                                                 VVVVVV......
                                                                                VV---                                 VV,VV,VV,VV,VV,V,VV,VV,VV,VV,VV,VV,VV,VV,VV,VV,VV,VV,V,VV,VV,VV,VV-V......
                                                                                                                                                                                           VVVVVV..............................                                                                    -.........................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         - - -- -- -- -- ---- .........................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             - ........                                                  - - - - - --
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ...................                                                                                                               .........,........                  ,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,.,.,.,.,.,.,.--------                        ,V,V,V,V,V,V,V,V...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       yyyyyyyyyyyyy      VVV
                                                                                                   289                                                                                                                                                               1024                                                                                                                                                                                       3.717
                                                                                                   290                                                                                                                                                               1024                                                                                                                                                                                       3.870
                                                                                                   291                                                                                                                                                               1024                                                                                                                                                                                       2.605
                                                                                                   292                                                                                                                                                               1024                                                                                                                                                                                       3.738
                                                                                                   293                                                                                                                                                               1024                                                                                                                                                                                       3.803
                                                                                                   294                                                                                                                                                               1024                                                                                                                                                                                       3.923
                                                                                                   295                                                                                                                                                               1024                                                                                                                                                                                       3.901
                                                                                                   296                                                                                                                                                               1024                                                                                                                                                                                       3.898
                                                                                                   297                                                                                                                                                               1024                                                                                                                                                                                       2.963
                       VVVV VV   VVVVVVVV VV
                                           VV  VV  VVVV VV  VVVV VV  VVVVVVVV VVV
                                                                             VV VVVVVVV VVVVVVVVVVV298
                                                                                                    VVVV
                                                                                                       VVVVVV VVVVVV VV  VV VVV VV VV   VVVVVVVV VV VV VV VV VV VV VV VV VVVV VV  VV  VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV       VVVV  VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVVV VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VV VVV1024
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVVVVVVV  VVVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VV  VV VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VV VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVVVVVVV      VVVVVV VVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VV VVVV VV VV VV VV VV VV VV VV VV VV  VV VV VV  VV VVVV VVVVVV VVVV VVVVVV  VVVVVVVVVVV4.000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVVVVV  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VV VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV VV VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VV VVVVVV VVVVVVVVVVVVVV  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV  VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VV  VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
            V
            V            V
                         V
                           VV
                           V
                           VV
                            V
                             VV
                             V
                             V   V
                                 V
                                  VV
                                  V
                                  VV
                                   V
                                    VV
                                    V
                                    VV
                                     V
                                      VV
                                      V
                                      VV
                                       V
                                         VV
                                         V
                                         VV
                                          VVV
                                           V VV
                                             V V
                                               V
                                                  VV
                                                  V
                                                  VV
                                                   V
                                                    VV
                                                    V
                                                    VV
                                                     V
            :Vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                                                      VV
                                                      V
                                                      V V
                                                        V
                                                           VV
                                                           V
                                                           VV
                                                            V
                                                             VV
                                                             V
                                                             VV
                                                              V
                                                               VV
                                                               V
                                                               V V
                                                                 V
                                                                    VV
                                                                    V
                                                                    VV
                                                                     V
                                                                      VV
                                                                      V
                                                                      VV
                                                                       V
                                                                        VV
                                                                        V
                                                                        VV
                                                                         V
                                                                          VV
                                                                          V
                                                                          VV
                                                                           VV
                                                                            VVNV
                                                                            VV
                                                                             V   VV
                                                                                  VVVV
                                                                                     e
                                                                                         VVVVVV
                                                                                            VO
                                                                                               VVVV
                                                                                                  a
                                                                                                   V
                                                                                                   VVVV VV
                                                                                                       ti
                                                                                                          VVVV
                                                                                                              V
                                                                                                               VVVV
                                                                                                                  v
                                                                                                                   VV VV   VVVV
                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                              VV
                                                                                                                               VV
                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                  VV VV
                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                           VVVV
                                                                                                                                             v
                                                                                                                                                VV VV VV VV VV VV
                                                                                                                                                               VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                  VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                     V
                                                                                                                                                                     VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                        V
                                                                                                                                                                        VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                           V VV
                                                                                                                                                                             VV  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                 V
                                                                                                                                                                                 VV  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                     V
                                                                                                                                                                                     VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                       V
                                                                                                                                                                                       VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                         V
                                                                                                                                                                                         VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                           V
                                                                                                                                                                                           VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                               vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                               V
                                                                                                                                                                                               VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                 V
                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                     V
                                                                                                                                                                                                     V    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                          V
                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                              V
                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                V  VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                          vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVVV  VV  VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV VVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVVVVV VVVVVVVV VV VVVV VV  VVVV VV VV VV VV VV     VV VV VV  VV VV VVVV VVVVVV VVVV   VV VV VVVVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVVVVVVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7VVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2VVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VV  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
            V
            V          V V
                         V VV
                            VV   V
                                 VVV
                                   VVV
                                     VVV
                                       V VV
                                          VV V V
                                               V  VV
                                                   VVV
                                                     VV V
                                                        V  VV
                                                            VVV
                                                              VV V
                                                                 V  VV
                                                                     VVV
                                                                       VVV
                                                                         VVV
                                                                           VVVV
                                                                              V V V V   V V V V V V V V  V V  V V V  V   V  V V V  V      V V V  V  V  V  V  V VV
                                                                                                                                                                V VV
                                                                                                                                                                   V VV
                                                                                                                                                                      V VV
                                                                                                                                                                         V V VV
                                                                                                                                                                              V  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                  V  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                      VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                        VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                          VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                              VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                V
                                                                                                                                                                                                VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                    VV    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                          V  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
                                                                                                                                                                                                               VV  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVVVVVVV  VVVVVVVVVV V V VVVVvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V    VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V  V V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VV V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 V V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VV d:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVVV V V V V V V V :V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV:V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VV:::::::::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
            VV         V   VVV   VVVVVVV VVV V V  VVVVV V  VVVVV V  V
                                                                    VVV
                                                                      VVV
                                                                        VVV
                                                                          VVV
                                                                            VV
                                                                             VVVVVVVVV
                                                                                     V  VV
                                                                                         VVV
                                                                                           VVV
                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                       VVVVVV VVVVVV VV  V VVVVVV VV V  V VVVVV VV VV VV VV VV V
                                                                                                                                                               VV V
                                                                                                                                                                  VV V
                                                                                                                                                                     VV V
                                                                                                                                                                        VV V
                                                                                                                                                                           V V
                                                                                                                                                                             VV  V
                                                                                                                                                                                 VV  V
                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                       VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                         VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                           VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                             --VVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                   vVV    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,  VVVV  VVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I  VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVVVVVV V V VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvVVV    VVVVVV VVVVVVVVVV VVVV VV V VVV VV VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvVV VV V  V V VV VV V V VV VVVV VVVVVV VVVV V VVV V VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV VV VVVVVVVVVVVV VVVVVVVVVVVVVV VVV VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV VVVV VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
                       V vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                         V VVV   VVVVVVVV    V VV  VVVV
            :vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                                          VV            VV  VVVV VVV
                                                                 V     VVV
                                                                     VVV VVV V:VVeg
                                                                           VVV          VVVVVaVVV vv j0v2                                                       VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                jjjjj,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,V
                                                                                                                                                                ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,                           VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV::V,,,,,,,,,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVk           A         VVVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V V VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V    VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V  V V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VV VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V   V V VVVVVVVVVVVV0VVVV  -VI   :54:        V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,,,,,,,,,,,,,V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VvVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VvVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V%VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVVV VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VV  V VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
            VVV        V   V
                         VVV V
                            VVV   VVVV
                                 VVVV V
                                     VVV V
                                       VVV V
                                          VV
                                           VVV
                                             V VVVV V
                                                   VVVV
                                                     VVVVVVV V
                                                            VVVV
                                                              VV
                                                               V VV V
                                                                    V V
                                                                     VV
                                                                      V V
                                                                       VV
                                                                        V V
                                                                         VV
                                                                          V V
                                                                           VV
                                                                            VV
                                                                             VVVV
                                                                              VVV V
                                                                                VVV V
                                                                                  VVV
                                                                                    VV
                                                                                     V  VV
                                                                                         VVV
                                                                                           VVV
                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                 V v
                                                                                                  VV
                                                                                                   V v
                                                                                                    VV
                                                                                                     V 0
                                                                                                       v
                                                                                                      VV
                                                                                                       VV  VVV
                                                                                                         VVV  V VVV
                                                                                                              VVV VVVVVV VVVVVV
                                                                                                                              VVV
                                                                                                                                VVVVVV  VV vVVV
                                                                                                                                          VVVvVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                               VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                  VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                     VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                        VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                           V V
                                                                                                                                                                             VVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                     V V
                                                                                                                                                                                      VV
                                                                                                                                                                                       V V
                                                                                                                                                                                        VV
                                                                                                                                                                                         V V
                                                                                                                                                                                          VV
                                                                                                                                                                                           V V
                                                                                                                                                                                             V V
                                                                                                                                                                                               V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                 V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                   V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                    VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                     V    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                          V   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                             VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                              V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                               VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                V   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V .V.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V.V.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVVV.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVVV.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVVV.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVVV.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVVV.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVVV.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V   VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVV   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVV VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVVV VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV  VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVV    V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVV  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVVVV V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVV  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVV VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVVV  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VV VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV V  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVV  V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVV  VVVVVV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VVV  VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV VVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VV
            V            V
                         V  VVVV
                           VVV   V V
                                  VVVVVVV
                                    VVVV  VV
                                         VVV
                                           VV  V
                                             VVV   V
                                                  VVVVVVV
                                                    VVV V   V
                                                           VVVV
                                                             VVV V
                                                                 V
                                                               VVV   V
                                                                     V
                                                                    VV
                                                                     V V
                                                                       V
                                                                      VV
                                                                       V V
                                                                         V
                                                                        VV
                                                                         V V
                                                                           V
                                                                          VV
                                                                           V V
                                                                             V
                                                                            VV    V     V V V V V V V V  V                                                     VV
                                                                                                                                                                V VV
                                                                                                                                                                   V VV
                                                                                                                                                                      V VV
                                                                                                                                                                         V V V
                                                                                                                                                                             VV
                                                                                                                                                                              V  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                  V  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                      VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                        VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                          VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                            VV
                                                                                                                                                                                             VV
                                                                                                                                                                                              VV
                                                                                                                                                                                               VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                    VV    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                          V  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                               VV  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VV V                             V V                 V                                             V  V V V V                                                                                           VVVVVVVV--vo                                V                       VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV      V V V  V VV  V V V V V V V V V V V
            :V
            V          ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
                       V V V
                           VVV   VVVVVVV VVV V V  VVVVV V  VVVVV V  VVV
                                                                      VVV
                                                                        VVV
                                                                          VVV
                                                                            VV
                                                                             VN
                                                                              V      ea atj                   va 03 V,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,                           VV VV VV VV V VV  VV  V
                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                       VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                         VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                     V    ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                          V
                                                                                                                                                                                                          V  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                V  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V ::V,,,,,,,,,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVi<
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVVVVVVI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V  VVV:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVVVVV V V vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         :Vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V    vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVVVVV VVVVVVVVVV VVVV VV V VVV VV VV VV VV VV V  V V VV VV V V VV VVVV VVVVVV VVVV V VV  V  V V VVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V   VVVVVVVViV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2VVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1VVVVV     Vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4VVVVVV Vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V VVVVVVVVVVVV VVVVVVVVVVVVVV VVV VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV VVVV VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
            VV
            V          VVV
                         V VV
                            V
                           VVV
                             VV  V
                                 VVV
                                   V
                                  VVVV
                                     V
                                    VVVV
                                       V
                                      VV VV
                                          V
                                         VVV
                                           V V
                                             VVV
                                               V  VV
                                                   V
                                                  VVVV
                                                     V
                                                    VVV
                                                      VVV
                                                        V  VV
                                                            V
                                                           VVVV
                                                              V
                                                             VVV
                                                               VVV
                                                                 V  VV
                                                                     VVV
                                                                       VVV
                                                                         VVV
                                                                           VVV
                                                                             VVVVVV
                                                                                  VVVV  V
                                                                                        VVV
                                                                                          VVV
                                                                                            VVV
                                                                                              VVV
                                                                                                VVV
                                                                                                  VVV
                                                                                                    VVV
                                                                                                      VVVVVVV V
                                                                                                              VVV
                                                                                                                VVV
                                                                                                                  VV V
                                                                                                                     VV  V
                                                                                                                         V VV
                                                                                                                            VVV
                                                                                                                              VVV VV V  V VVVVV VV VV VV VV VV V
                                                                                                                                                               VV V
                                                                                                                                                                  VV V
                                                                                                                                                                     VV V
                                                                                                                                                                        VV V
                                                                                                                                                                           V V
                                                                                                                                                                             VV  V
                                                                                                                                                                                 VV  V
                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                       VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                         VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                     V    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                          V  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                V  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV  VVVVVVVVVV V V VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV    VVVVVV VVVVVVVVVV VVVV VV V VVV VV VV VV VV VV V  V V VV VV V V VV VVVV VVVVVV VVVV V VVV V VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
            V          V VV VV   VVVVVVVV  VV
                                          VV   VV  VVVV
            vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv  VV  VVVV VVV VVV
                                                                       VVV
                                                                         VVV VVVVVVVVP
                                                                           VVV                   VaVVfi   -V  VveVVVV,       VV0VV4             vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvI
                                                                                                                                                VV VVV
                                                                                                                                                   V  VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV VVV VVV VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                       VVV VVV   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV     V,V
                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV    VVV   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                          V,,,,,,,    VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVV VVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  V:VVVVVVV VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 V VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV<
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvVVVI vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVVvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V V V V V V V V V V VV V V V V V V V V V V VV V VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVV    VVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V   VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V Vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,  VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV0 .                  VO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        %                   VVVVVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Vv95 vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
            vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                                                    V V    V V V    V V V V V  VVVIVVV  VVVV V V V V V V V V  V
                                                                                                        VVVVVVVVV V  V   V  V V         V V V V  V  V  V  V  V  V  V  V  V V  V   V   V V V V V V V V I   V  V V   V V V V V V V V V VV V  V V V V V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV V V V V VV V V V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V V   V VVO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V V VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V   V VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV    VVVVVV VVVVVVVVVV VVV  V  V  V  V  V  V  V  V  V  V   V  V  V   V  V                                                             V  V  V VVVVVVVVV VVVVVVVVVVVVVV VVV VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV VVVV VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
            V            V  V    V V V V  VV   V   V
            VVvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv V  V   V V  V   V
                                                                     V V
                                                                       V V
                                                                         V V
                                                                           V V
                                                                             VV V V V   V V V V V V V V        -      V    VV V               V  V  V  V  V  V  V  V  V  V V  V   V   V V
                                                                                                                                                vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvIV V V V V V I   V  V V   V V V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                          V%%%%%%%%%%%%%%V V V V V V VV V  VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV<     I     V       V   V V V VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,V              VVV    VVVVVV VVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VV  V V  V  V  V  V  V  V  V  V  V  V   V  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv V   V  V V  V V V  V V  V                          V                                     V V VVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvVVV VVV VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV VVVV VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
            ::             VVV   VVVVVVV VVV V V  VVVVV V  VVVVV
                         vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvV  V
                                                                    VVV
                                                                      VVV
                                                                        VVV
                                                                          VVV
                                                                            VV
                                                                             VN V I VVe VVV g     A    ti     M   V0
                                                                                                                   V  V      V
                                                                                                                             ,V0        5     V V
                                                                                                                                                VV V
                                                                                                                                                   VV V
                                                                                                                                                      VV V
                                                                                                                                                         VV V
                                                                                                                                                            VV V
                                                                                                                                                               VV V
                                                                                                                                                                  VV V
                                                                                                                                                                     VV V
                                                                                                                                                                        VV V
                                                                                                                                                                           V V
                                                                                                                                                                             VV  V
                                                                                                                                                                                 VV  V
                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                       VV
                                                                                                                                              vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvIV
                                                                                                                                                                                         VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                     VI   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                          V  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                V  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVVVVVVVVV VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                          vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvVV            V       V V VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V V  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V VVVV VVVVVV VVVV V VVV V VVVVVVVVVVVVa      VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,0     9    6       VV VVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  V VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             vVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               vVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VV
            V
            V.           V
                         V .V
                            V.V  V.V
                                   V.V
                                     V.V
                                       V .V
                                          VV
                                           .
                                           V.  V
                                               V  .V
                                                   V.V
                                                    VV.V
                                                      V V  .V
                                                           VV.V
                                                             VV.V
                                                               V V  .V
                                                                    VV.V
                                                                      VV.V
                                                                        VV.V
                                                                          VVVVV
                                                                            .V
                                                                             .VVVVVVVVV   VVV
                                                                                        VVV     VVV
                                                                                              VVV
                                                                                            VVV     VVV
                                                                                                  VVV VV
                                                                                                       VV
                                                                                                        .V.V
                                                                                                         VV .V
                                                                                                           VV  .V
                                                                                                              VV .V
                                                                                                                VV .V
                                                                                                                  VV  .V
                                                                                                                     VV  VV.V.V
                                                                                                                            VV .V
                                                                                                                              VVVV.V
                                                                                                                                   VV.V VV
                                                                                                                                        .  .V
                                                                                                                                          VV .V
                                                                                                                                            VVVV.V
                                                                                                                                                 V .V
                                                                                                                                                   VV .V
                                                                                                                                                      VV .V
                                                                                                                                                         VV .V
                                                                                                                                                            VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                V VV
                                                                                                                                                                   V VV
                                                                                                                                                                      V VV
                                                                                                                                                                         V VVV
                                                                                                                                                                           V  V  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                  V  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                      VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                        VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                          VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                              VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVI
                                                                                                                                                                                                      IV  VV VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                               VV  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV  VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VV     .V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VV .V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VV .V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VV .V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VV .V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VV .V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VV .V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VV .V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VV .V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VV  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VV. .V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VV .V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VV .V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VV .V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VV .V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VV .V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VV .V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV   .V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VV .V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VV .V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VV .V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VV .VV .V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VV.V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VV.V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VV.V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VV.V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VV.V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VV.V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V    VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVVVVVV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV  V VVVVVVVVV VVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV      VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVVV  VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVV VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVV VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVV     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVV VVV   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVVV    VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVV   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV V
                       V V VVV   VVVVVVV VVV V V  VVVV
            vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvV V  VVVVV V
                                                                 V  VV
                                                                     VVV
                                                                       VVV
                                                                         VVV
                                                                           VVVN      d      g     A    t      vv  ve         VVa        6        V
                                                                                                                                                 V V
                                                                                                                                                   VV
                                                                                                                                                    V V
                                                                                                                                                      VV
                                                                                                                                                       V V
                                                                                                                                                         VV
                                                                                                                                                          V V
                                                                                                                                                            VV
                                                                                                                                                             V V
                                                                                                                                                               VV
                                                                                                                                                                V V
                                                                                                                                                                  VV
                                                                                                                                                                   V V
                                                                                                                                                                     VV
                                                                                                                                                                      V V
                                                                                                                                                                        VV V V
                                                                                                                                                                             VV
                                                                                                                                                 vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                                                                                                                                                                         V V  V  V
                                                                                                                                                                                 VV
                                                                                                                                                                                  V  V
                                                                                                                                                                                     VV
                                                                                                                                                                                      VV
                                                                                                                                                                                       VV
                                                                                                                                                                                        VV
                                                                                                                                                                                         VV
                                                                                                                                                                                          VV
                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                     V,   V  VVVV  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,,,,,,,,,,VVVVVVVVVVVVVV V V  V  V V V V V V V V V V V:VV V V V V  VI    :0    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         :   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V V V    VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V VVV V VVVVVVVVVVVV0      .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VI   I     VVI  VV V  V V VV V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,V  V V V V V V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V V V V V V V V V V  V  V  V V V V V V V V V
            VVV        V   V
                         VVV V
                            VVV   V
                                 VVVVVVV
                                   VVVV  V
                                       VVV V
                                          VV
                                           VVV VVVV V
                                                   VVVV
                                                     VVVVVVV VVVV
                                                            VVVV VVVV V
                                                                     VVVV
                                                                       VVVV
                                                                         VVVVV
                                                                           VVVVV                       VVVVVV VVVVVV VV  VV  V
                                                                                                                            VVVVVV VV     VVVVVVVVV VV VV VV VV VV VV VV   VV VV  VV  VVVVVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                            VV VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                              VVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                   V V,V
                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVI   V   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                V   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVVV VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV  V VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVVV VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV  VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVV VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVV VVVVVV  VVVVVVVV VVV   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV VVVVVVVVVV    VVVVVV VVVVVV VV VVVV VV VV VV VV VV VV VV VV    VV  VV VV VV  VV VVVV VVVVVV VVVV   VVVV  VVVVVVVVVVVV,VVVVV   VVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVVV  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVVVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVVVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVVV  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVV VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVVVV
            V
            VVVVV
            V                V   VVVVVVV VV  V V
                                               V  VVVVV
                             VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV,,,,,,,,,
                                                        V  VVVVV V  VVVVVV
                                                                     ,,,,,VVVVVVVVV
                                                                                V   VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
                                                                                  VVV
                                                        VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV:Veg a tivVev %
                                                                                                        VVVVV VVVVVV VV  V VVVVVV VV V  VV
                                                                                                                                        V  VVVV VV VV VV VV VV VV VV VV VVV
                                                                                                                                                                         V   VV  VV  VVVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                              VVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                 VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV,,,,,,,,,,,V
                                                                                                                                                                                                    VV,   VV VVVV  VVVVVVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                          VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VV VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5,VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV  VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V  V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V V VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V VVVVVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V    VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V  V V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VV VVVV VVVVVV VVVV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V  VV V VVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvVVVVVVV V V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VV V V V V   V  V  V  V V VV V V V  V V V VVVVVVV VVV VVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Vv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Vv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
            :::        V   V
                            V
                           vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                            VV   VVVVVVV VVV V V  VVVVV    V V V    V V V V VV                     V V V
                                                                                                       .V.V.V .V.V.V .V  . V.VV0
                                                                                                                              .V. V. V  7.
                                                                                                                                         V.V.V. V,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                 vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv,
                                                                                                                                                 . V. V. V. V. V. V. V. V. V
                                                                                                                                                                           . V.  V.  V.V.V.V.V V V V V    ,,,,,,,,,,,VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                          V   V V   V V V V V V V V.VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V  VVVVVVVVVVVVVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VV,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V V V V V V V V V VV V V V V V V IVV:  V0VV: V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V,,,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V V V V V V V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV,,,,,,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V V VV V V V V V V V V V V V VV V V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVVVVVVVVVVVvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V V V  V V V VV V  V V  V   VVV VV VV VV VV VV V  V V VV VV V V VV VVVV VVVVVV VVVV V VVV V  VVVVVVVVVVV0VVVV  ,V1 3 I vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V V V V V V V V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVV VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVV VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VV
            VV
            V            V
                         V VV
                            VV   V
                                 VVV
                                   VVV
                                     VVV
                                       V VV
                                          VV
                                           V V V
                                               V  VV
                                                   VVV
                                                     VV V
                                                        V  VV
                                                            VVV
                                                              VV
                       vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv V
                                                                 V  VV
                                                                     VVV
                                                                       VVV
                                                                         VVV
                                                                           VVV
                                                                             VVVVVVV
                                                                                  VVVV  V
                                                                                        VVV
                                                                                     ea AtiVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV VVVVVV VV  V VVVVVV VV V   VVVVVV VV VV
                                                                                                              Vve 08 vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv, VV VV VV VV VV VV VV V VV  VV  VVVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                               vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv,VVVVVVVI   V  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,v-,VVV  VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V V VVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV<V V0,,,,,,,,,,VVVVV V V VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV    VVVVVV VVVVVVVVVV VVVV VV V VVV VV VV VV VV VV V  V V VV VV V V VV VVVV VVVVVV VVVV V VVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVVVVVV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V,,,,,,,,,,,V VVVV VVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
            V          V
                       VV  V
                           VVV
                             VV   V
                                  VVV
                                    VVV
                                      VV V
                                         VVVVVV   V
                                                  VVV
                                                    VVV
                                                      VV   V
                                                           VVV
                                                             VVV
                                                               VV   V
                                                                    VVV
                                                                      VVV
                                                                        VVV
                                                                          VVVV
                                                                            VVN                                                                                V  V  V  V    V   V   V V V V V V V V V    vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                                                                                                                                                                                                              V V   V V                                                       IVVVVVVVVVVV     VVVV VVVVVVVVVVV VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV                                           V  V  V  V  V  V      V  V  V   V  V  V V  V V V  V V    V  V  V V V V V V                         VVVVVVVVV    VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV VVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVV VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVV   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVV      VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV V V V V V V V  V   V V V V
            vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
            V
            V          V
                       V V
                         V V
                           VV
                            VV
                             V   V
                                 VV
                                  VV
                                   VV
                                    VV
                                     VV
                                      VV
                                       V V
                                         VV
                                          VV
                                           V V
                                             V V
                                               V  V
                                                  VV
                                                   VV
                                                    VV
                                                     VV
                                                      V V
                                                        V  V
                                                           VV
                                                            VV
                                                             VV
                                                              VV
                                                               V V
                                                                 V  V
                                                                    VV
                                                                     VV
                                                                      VV
                                                                       VV
                                                                        VV
                                                                         VV
                                                                          VV
                                                                           VV
                                                                            VV
                                                                             VV
                                                                              VVVVVVVV  VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV VVVVVV VV  V VVVVVV VV V   VVVVVV VV VV VV VV VV
                                                                                                                                                               V
                                                                                                                                                               V
                                                                                                                                                                V
                                                                                                                                                                V
                                                                                                                                                                V
                                                                                                                                                                  V
                                                                                                                                                                  V
                                                                                                                                                                   V
                                                                                                                                                                   V
                                                                                                                                                                   V
                                                                                                                                                                     V
                                                                                                                                                                     V
                                                                                                                                                                      V
                                                                                                                                                                      V
                                                                                                                                                                      V
                                                                                                                                                                        V
                                                                                                                                                                        V
                                                                                                                                                                         V
                                                                                                                                                                         V
                                                                                                                                                                         V
                                                                                                                                                                           V
                                                                                                                                                                           V
                                                                                                                                                                           V
                                                                                                                                                                           V
                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                              V
                                                                                                                                                                              V
                                                                                                                                                                              V
                                                                                                                                                                                 V
                                                                                                                                                                                 V
                                                                                                                                                                                  V
                                                                                                                                                                                  V
                                                                                                                                                                                  V
                                                                                                                                                                                     V
                                                                                                                                                                                     V
                                                                                                                                                                                      V
                                                                                                                                                                                      V
                                                                                                                                                                                      V
                                                                                                                                                                                       V
                                                                                                                                                                                       V
                                                                                                                                                                                        V
                                                                                                                                                                                        V
                                                                                                                                                                                        V
                                                                                                                                                                                         V
                                                                                                                                                                                         V
                                                                                                                                                                                          V
                                                                                                                                                                                          V
                                                                                                                                                                                          V
                                                                                                                                                                                           V
                                                                                                                                                                                           V
                                                                                                                                                                                            V
                                                                                                                                                                                            V
                                                                                                                                                                                            V
                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                              V
                                                                                                                                                                                              V
                                                                                                                                                                                              V
                                                                                                                                                                                               V
                                                                                                                                                                                               V
                                                                                                                                                                                                V
                                                                                                                                                                                                V
                                                                                                                                                                                                V
                                                                                                                                                                                                 V
                                                                                                                                                                                                 V
                                                                                                                                                                                                 V
                                                                                                                                                                                                  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                     V
                                                                                                                                                                                                     V
                                                                                                                                                                                                     V
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                          V
                                                                                                                                                                                                          V
                                                                                                                                                                                                          V
                                                                                                                                                                                                          V
                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                              V
                                                                                                                                                                                                              V
                                                                                                                                                                                                              V
                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVVVVVVVVV             V VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V     V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVVVVVVVV    VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVVVVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VV  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VV  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VV VVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VV  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VV  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VV  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VV  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VV VV V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VV  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VV VVVV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VV  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VV  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VV  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVVVVV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VV  0IVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VV        VVV3VVV7VVVvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .4                        VV                       VVV       VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VV  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
            VV             V
                           VVV
                             V   VV
                                  VVV
                                    VVV
                                      VV V
                                         VVV
                                           V V
                                             V V  V
                                                  VVV
                                                    VVV
                                                      V V  V
                           vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                                                           VVV
                                                             VVV
                                                               V V  V
                                                                    VVV
                                                                      VVV
                                                                        VVV
                                                                          VVV
                                                                            VV
                                                                             V V V V V   V V V V V V V V       -V          VV V               V VV  V
                                                                                                                                                vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvI
                                                                                                                                                   V  VV VV VV VV VV VV VV V
                                                                                                                                                                           V VV  VV  VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVI   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                          V  VVVV  VVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                          V%%%%%%%V,,,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVVVVVVVVVV V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVVV VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV<V V V        V V V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VvV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VvV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VV    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 V V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V V  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V V V V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VV V V V V V V V V  V  V VV V V V  V V V V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V  V VV V V V  V V V V V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VV
                         V.  VV.
                           VV.      VV.
                                  VV. VV.VV.
                                           VV
                                           V   VVV
                                               V     VVV
                                                   VVV
            :.vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv  VVV VVV
                                                              VVV.V.V.V.V.V.V
                                                                 VVVVVVVVVVVNVIVVe      VVV g     A    ti
                                                                                                       V.V.V.VMV   V
                                                                                                                   0  V      V
                                                                                                                             ,V0         9    V VV VV VV VV VV VV VV VV VV V VV  VV  VVVV
                                                                                                                                              vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvIVVVVVVVVVVVVVI   V  VVVV  VVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                          V,,,,,,,,,,,,,,VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV VVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVVVVVVV                  V V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv   VVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    %%%%%%%%%%V VVVVVVVVVV VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 V V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V  V V VV VV V V VV VVVV VVVVVV VVVV V VVV V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvoVVVVVVVVVVV  VVVVVVVVV.VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,VV1  3     2     V VV VVVVVVVVVVVV VVVVVVVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv VVV VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV VVVV VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
            VVVV
            V               VV   VVVVVVV VVV .VV
                                             V    .VV .VV
                                                    .VV      .VV
                                                           .VV .VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV .V.V.V.V.V.V.V.V..                    VV.V.V.V.V.V.V.V.V.V.V.V.         V.V.V.V.V.V.VVVVVIVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V V V V V V V V V VV V V V                                                                                                                                                                                                  V                                                             V V VVVVV V V  VV  V V V V V V V V V V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
                           V V    V V V  V V V
                            VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVNVe VV V
                         vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
            ::Vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                                                      V    V V V    V V V V VV              a ati             v I0 vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv,            V
                                                                                                                                                               VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                V V  V
                                                                                                                                                                   VVV  V
                                                                                                                                                                      VVV  V
                                                                                                                                                                         VVVVVVVVVVVVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                      VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                        VVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                          VVVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                              VVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                VVVV V    V  VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                    VV,   V  VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V V V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V,,,,,,VV V V<      1VVV  0      V V VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV V  VVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V VV     VVvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VV    VVVVVV VVVVVVVVV VVVV VV VV VV VV VV VV VV VV VV   V VV VV VV  VV VVVV VVVVVV VVVV V VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV     k:1   19   vg    v   V  V VV V V V  V V V V V V V  V V V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV V VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V V  V V  V  V  V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V V V  VV  V V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
            V          V V VVV   VVVVVVV VVV V V  VVVVV V  VVVVV V  VVVVVVVVVVV                                                                                VV VV VV VV V
                                                                                                                                                                           V VV  VV  VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVI   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                          V  VVVV  VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVVV V V V V V V V VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV   V VVVVVVVV V V VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV    VVVVVV VVVVVVVVVV VVVV VV V VVV VV VV VV VV VV V  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V V VV VV V V VV VVVV VVVVVV VVVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V VVV   V V V V V V V V V  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV VV VVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVVVVVVV VVVVVVVVVVVVVV VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VV VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              i
            VVV          V
                           VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV--
                            V    V V V V  VV   V   V V  V   V V  V
                                                                 V
                                                                    VVVVVv
                                                                     V V V
                                                                         V
                                                                          VVVVV
                                                                           V
                                                                               VVVVVV%
                                                                              -,     VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                V
                                                                                                                             VVVVVV          VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV,,,,,,,,,
                                                                                                                                         VVvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv,
                                                                                                                                              V  V  V  V  V  V  V  V  V  V V  V   V   V V V V V V V V I   V  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                               V   V V V V V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVV VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VV VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVVVVVVVVVV       VVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 V :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  V:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V :V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V:V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             : V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               :V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 :   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     : V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       : V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         : V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           : V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             : V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               : VVVVV   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V VVVVVVVVV        V  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVVVVVVV VVVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvVVVV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VV VVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
            :Vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                       VVVV V
                           VVV
                             VVV
                             V   V V
                                  VVV
                                  V VVVVV
                                    VVV
                                      VV VVV
                                         VVV
                                           VV
                                           V VVV
                                             V V   VVVV
                                                  VVV
                                                  V VV  ,,,,,,,,,
                                                      VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV    VV
                                                                             V
                                                                             VV  : V e      g     Va   ti
                                                                                                       V      M    eV        :V
                                                                                                                              VVI
                                                                                                                               VVVVVVVVVVI    V
                                                                                                                                             VVVVV
                                                                                                                                                VVVVV
                                                                                                                                                   VVVV
                                                                                                                                             VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                       V
                                                                                                                                                      VV VVV
                                                                                                                                                         VV V
                                                                                                                                                            VVVV
                                                                                                                                                               VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                  VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                     VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                        VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                           VVV
                                                                                                                                                                             VVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV V V
                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV V V V V V V V    V   V V
                                                                                                                                                                                       VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVIVVVVVVVVVVVV V V V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V,VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VV   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVVVV               V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IVVVVVVVVVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VV  VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VV    VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVVV VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV  VVV   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV  VVVVVVVVVVVVVVV  VVVVVVVVVV  VV VV   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV  VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVVV-1  VV    4VVVVVV     V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2VVVVVV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
             VV
             V         VVV VVV   VVVVVVV VVV V V  VVVVV V  VVVVV V
                           vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv  VVVVVVVVVVVVV
                                                                                VVV
                                                                                  VVV
                                                                                    VV
                                                                                     VV VVVVVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                       VV
                                                                                                        VV
                                                                                                         VV
                                                                                                          VV
                                                                                                           VV
                                                                                                            V V
                                                                                                              VV
                                                                                                               VV
                                                                                                                VV
                                                                                                                 VV
                                                                                                                  VV
                                                                                                                   V VV
                                                                                                                      V  V
                                                                                                                         V V
                                                                                                                           VV
                                                                                                                            VV
                                                                                                                             VV
                                                                                                                              VV
                                                                                                                               VV VV V   VVVVVV VV VV VV V
                                                                                                                                                         VV VV VV VV VV VV V VV  VV  VVVVVVVV V V V V I   V  V V   V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  V%%V;,V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V  VVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   v V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      v V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 V V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VVVVVVVVVVVVV V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
             ::             VV   VVVVVVV VVV
                                           V V V  VVVVV    V V V
                            vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                                                        V   V V  V  VVVVVVVVVV
                                                                             VN      eg           a    tive,::12                                                                       V V V V V V V V    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                          V  VVVV  VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVVV VVVVVVVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        :VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          :VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            :VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              :V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               :VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 :VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   :VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     :vvv<
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       V       VI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               VV            V,,,,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V  V V V V V V V V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  V V,,,,,,,,VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VV V V V V V V V   V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,,,,, VV VVVVVVV    VVVVVV VVVVVVVVVV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV VV V VVV VV vV vV VV VV V  V V VV VV V V VV VVVV :V:V:  : :  : :      : : : : : :0      ,2     1    V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I     V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          : VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             : VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                :VVVVVVVVVV VVVVVVVVVVVVVV VVV VV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  :VvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV VVVV VVVVVVVVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VVV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VV
                            vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
. A panel including 3 pooled and 30 individual PRRSV                             V V                    V V V                     V  V     V V:::::::::::::::::::::::::::               VVVVVVVVVVVVVV4,,,,           : : : : : : : : :: :  : : : : : :                  V V   V V :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V0V V :Vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V V   V V V V V V V V V V VV V V V V V V V V V V V VV V V Vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V V V  V V V VV V  V V  V   V V  V  V  V  V  V    V V  V  V   V  V       V V V  V V V  V::                                                V V V V  V V V V V V V  V V V V V V V V V V V V V  VV  V V V V V V V V V V V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IFA positive (IFA titer >1: 16) swine sera and 12
                             PRRSV IFA negative (titer < 1: 1 0) swine sera was used for serological validation of the PRRSV N
                             [p4l7le+4172e] peptide-based ELISA. Sera were diluted 1:21 for ELISA testing.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 53

     E
     0
        a)            (l) -wLn iD
                   0. 00 00
                                        0 o o o
                   W! W! W! W! W!       Ur tr t4 ty              CiC4eJC'
              m    000          0                             Q00000
     CL C000       zWG)                00                      00000
F--H                        H H HHE-E-        E- E-1 E-1                              H   H
               WDin in innin in                                                    UiU U U U
           o-   WC!                                              i-              I    4 P U U
                                                              ni 0              *C )!C)-    !
                   04                                            r.4 r4 r4r
     E 0O-P                      CIU)  ,-) C4 C4)                           CCia)
                                                                                        1
                                                         5-4H

0*
                         >-     >
                 ciQ
                 I-A
                         CDq    CD     -      -q Fq
                         Wo
    nc
0.
   o                            Cfl
                              CflU     Cfl   F-H F-U)ClHFH
                                    R4     C4Cn  Cn        Cnn
     00
00 E
Ei
             I~~U                      U         U         U   U
                0m                     m     m   m
                                     >n>     >
          _n                                     CDl           NCD
              0.                                 CD
                                                  I
                             CD      C CD         _co
                          CD     I     CD         H
     0           0
       >-             61
                 a) Z    c-H    c-H          >~
                                             c-H  n            cn
CLD                             C      C      <  >
                             ~2~2    ~55

0
       CL~~F-                       F-HH                H            4
                     P4                     >     1     =1F-H=E-IF-H
                                F-  F-H                                U)U)              U
CL*          t4l~f9                         <           U
                                                                            UU
                                            F-H F-      FH
                                 IO  I-     Cf   -HH-ql
       C>     m                             cn  cn      cn
                           IHU      U)      1-4 1-4     1-4      1-4   1~-4 H  14      4
                                                                                     z   c
                                                 mm              mp            ru    F-
              HL            Cfl E     -          H      HZ
                                        0                                      cn
                           a-   cn  cn      r
                                cn  cn      rn
    00                              Hcr~E                                          (
                  :2
             .7        _~                 n  ~ ni n cL       L n cq n  G)      -i cn  cn  cn L i
                  .~CL
                        05

              (1)"WLO        r-    0     - M        r-rq~r          r-rM-r--r--         r   r    r r
                             00000
                               000                 000                00         00
         -  H H     H        H       HH     H    F-IH iH            H     HH      H
                                                          a)~ aW~ ~ ) a) 0          ) w cn coco      )U~
                                                                     nUU)U
E
        >L >U >                          ~         Q zn.<    f                               4
_       z   zz               0004x                       9x
                              w~~       ~~                       g 4*4-U )(E4->           >      >
          > E~~      ~      ~      .~ 0)~      .                 N,   4       40         -   -iE
  L      000                  000                 000                0000                000              0000      4
        Wc W           f-4W     x      Z         ZZZ           0Z~                  (D~                CDN ( U
      C
      0                                       I    - CD-IC
                                                                  C'0
            C,      w             x    z   N             z   w          x   z     w         z    z w
        >~4       UH)A                                                                           )                    LO)I
        HO                 ,- O                  HO LOI                                 HO L nL n a lU    O a O W H
    0                                                                     o           O          O

  0i
            c-,4                                                                                l
                                                     9i                        4.4t            H
            C0                                                                 2
            a)t0                                                  t       )         t
W0                          4     4      HHP                                                   m-
                                                                       r       c
                         t4 t4      t.            t4      t    t       044       4        t4   t
               CL-I                                                            i~
                       E                                                                   -     f
                                                  C14     P4 >-        t4        T        m    LO
     diI                     I      L)       I
                    0.                1. 0)    I-     O'I      r-   -I           (0        >   (0
                    0-                -     0                                    r.            r.
         I-0                          -I    0-    0l      COO           Cl 0          4)       4
           F
     0.E-1                  E-1     E-1     E-1   E-1     P~                P~          ~    ~
                 61o            i    N             0      LOWr                 0
            --   Z       00 00      0        0    0         00           0     0           0
               0.8

                             000
                             -.     0 co             -- CO
                                                                  0
                                                                  0
                                                                  (D
00 -A C          00              -A
                                                                  =; 00
                                                                  CO,
      CD CD c)CD                                                  0)c
                         ft~
                                         ft       ft            f
                      oe                    00             CD 0
                    -                          --

                       09
          -ID
          00                                               00
                          ~'D                           (J
-r -.                          w        00         00
                                               000
                                 000
       00                                ft
              cr    cr                    r CD        c
                                     000
                              -0      >            >
      >          >p

                                 C
                            00 W)     :
       =~       Of
    C Of                 en      en enD
       C    0    E
  -           6           -
o
                   CCo
                                    e   -A CoCn
      0(4.1
                                CC  C    c)
                       ~ 6661=i

     00                      -A
          +                  +
               00
                          C                     CL
                                            CD c)       D
                               -0
                  0                                  -0
                   rDD
                    ta
                                  ft    fD
                            -t          0-0
A AD
       rD   --         rD            rD            r

                        CD
0
E
E
U)
     010
              t
              CD   \C0   D0
     CL   j R   CD   -D  CD
co
u
0
w_
o)Co
       oo
                  Cn
                            63

                                       V9
                       -ID
                                                               -2
                                                                   m
           -~~C                                        C)-         CC
   0    a:                                           "       "
                                                                   0
                                                                  -0
                                                                   (D
                                                                   C
                                                                   0
                                                                   CD
                        ICI
CD  --          A 0 0~                   ID  )- D A. t
                                                           DD         0D
                            or-t orro
       ~L                             L8J~~-

              -~ C: C:)   C:
      W                 00   W-)C :
     06
  2)
     tL
  U)
  2
o o
  U)
         U-C
           ac
           0~
                                 Co
                                 Co
        I-                    65

                              99
                                                     C
                                                     CCo
   S 5               5           5     [         5
     o    --                                           hoo
                                                     CD
             Z*
     --            o  --                  oo  -A
U)      .     U)          .            -.          3
                 a   2                               -0
                                                     N)
                                                     -p
                                                     w
                                                     C
          ooo     oo   ooo           o
               oo o         o      o o     o0
                                                     C.D(
                                                     O
                                                     T..

L9
     -ID
            (J0
                  0
                    -h
                  CD
                       0
                       0
   -              -
         -I  -IU)
                  CD
                   T.

                              000
                      000      -
           I-      -      -       v
                                 vo
                                 -     ON          -
         Q    V     V      V      V    '9C          V    V
                          '0     -     Ca      C N      '0
                                    00        '
                SN        '000                '0         f00
                     v      v               v
                                                   NN
                           0    00       r-     t  0 00
-             N      N                      -
  C           C~~n C~Z     Cn
                              C  C-     COn    0~  Cln  Cl
   CN
      .1
                C68

                                     Table 13.
                              Animal study schedule
Practice                                    Performance time (WPI)
                                            (weeks post initial immunization)
Grouping, Ear tagging, Blood sampling       WO
Vaccine administration: Intramuscular
injection was placed at a site which is
located directly behind the ear on the side
of the pig's neck muscle.
Blood sampling                              W4
Boost
Blood sampling                              W6
Animals moved out into challenge site       W7
Challenge study by intra-nasal              W7
administration 10 doses AMERVAC*
PRRS (106. TCID5 o/ head) or
PRRS MD-001 (105 TCID5 o/ head)
Blood sampling                              W9, End of the challenge study
                                        69

                                          Table 14
                     Summary results of PRRSV challenge studies
Group #       # of          Shot       IFA          IFA        IFA        Lung lesion
              Animals       No.        titer        titer      titer      score at 2
              / group                  at 4 wpi     at 6       at 2       wpc 3 )
                                                    wpi        wpc 2 )
                                       50           100                   0
                                       <50          100                   0
              5            2           50           100                   0
                                       100          200                   0
                                       100          100                   0
                                       50           50         50         0
                                       <50          50         50         0
2(            5            2           <50          <50        50         0
                                       50           50         50         0
                                       100          50         50         0
                                       <50                     <50        1
                                       50                      50         0
3(l)          5            2           <50                     <50        0
                                       50                      100        0
                                       50                      100        0
                                       50                      100        0
                                       <50                     <50        1
4(l)          5            2           100                     200        0
                                       50                      50         0
                                       200                     200        0
                                       <50                     <50        3
                                       <50                     <50        3
Control(')    5             0          <50                     <50        0
                                       <50                     <50        3
                                       <50                     <50        3
(1)Data from group 1 ( PRRS-10-01S), group 2 (PRRS-10-02S), groups 3 & 4
     ( PRRS-10-03S), and Control group (PRRS-10-02S).
(2)AMERVAC-PRRS strain challenge: group 1; MD-001 strain challenge: groups
     2, 3 and 4.
(3) Lesion score: 0, no lesion; 1, slight lesion; 2, mild lesion; 3, severe lesion.
                                            70

                                                Table 15
                                  Animal Group and Dosage
      Group         Vaccine Formulation           Number of               Volume of           Number of
                                               Animals/ Group               Vaccine         Innoculations
        1                 Formula 1                   5                        Iml                2
        2                 Formula 2                   5                        1ml               2
        3                 Formula 3                   5                        1ml                2
        4                 Formula 4                   5                        1ml                2
        5                 Formula 5                   5                        1ml                1
        6                 Formula 6                   5                         0                0
Note: No immunization for control group 6; immunization at Owpi only for group 5; two immunizations
for groups 1-4 at 0 wpi and 2 wpi. All dosage formulations for immunization are the same (1mL).
1.2.4 Immunogenicity: Test the PRRS antigen ata 4 wpi (day 28) before viral challenges
1.2.5 Viral challenge: use PRRS virulent strain (NVCD-JXA1) after 4 wpi (day 28)
1.2.6 Measure body temperature: each day from the       2 1 st day after viral innoculation
                                                    71

                                                Table 16
                                Result of PRRSV ELISA OD 4 5 0nm
                                       Prior to Immunization
                                                                                   Pos            Neg
   0.264           0.122           0.094           0.160           0.200           Con            Con
   0.249           0.210           0.087           0.245           0.193          2.182          0.233
   0.241           0.262           0.094           0.164           0.174          2.179          0.302
   0.292           0.222           0.141           0.191
   0.225           0.112           0.195           0.205
   0.350           0.095           0.226           0.202
   0..213          0.137           0.219           0.188
Note: The above are average OD values by testing animal samples with PRRSV ELISA. Both positive and
negative controls are provided by the ELISA kit. According to the assay kit, the positive and negative
values are considered valid if "positive average value" / "negative average value" = S/N > 4.0.
The tested results showed that all samples are negative for PRRS antibody (OD) prior to the
immunization.
                                                     72

                        Table 17
              Animal Number and Groups
Group 1 Group 2    Group 3     Group 4 Group 5 Group 6
   7      16          2           4       1      13
  14      17          8           5      10      20
  50      21         51           9      12      25
  27      54         55          11      15      26
  30      28         57          32      49      31
                           73

                                           Table 18
                      Result of PRRS Antibody Reactivity (OD)
                                4 week post-immunization
Pig No.    1      2       4       5      7      8    9     10    11    12    13    14
2wpi    0.574  0.862    0.736   0.562  0.479 0.457 0.347 0.305 0.611 0.487 0.816 1.911
4wpi    0.926  0.557    0.595   0.476  1.377 2.377 0.564 0.670 2.187 0.129 0.530 0.515
Pig No. 15      16      17      20     21    25    26    27    28    30    31    32
2wpi    0.686  0.68     1.101   0.482  0.172 0.367 0.307 0.286 0.549 0.345 0.306 0.667
4wpi    0.549  0.876    0.243   0.584  0.334 0.284 0.575 0.684 0.338 0.364 0.306 0.328
Pig No. 49     50       51      54     55    57
2wpi    1.254  0.309    0.960   0.522  2.361 0.462
4wpi    1.736  0.602    3.094   0.542  1.198 1.310
Pos     2.764  2.740
Con     0.283 0.253
Note: OD >0.4995 is scored as positive
                                               74

   c 4 c, cc cyl -,j c                                              c      c     m D- :)C)v         cri m~ 4,       w cn co       m~ 00 w co C:            )co         m 0
10   10oo    o      o~~~~                                          C     ~      O      o    o       o       C     CO      O       o     C     o    o    o       o       C           60
          W      -
                 *o*-D                    4-                                    0     4                   664b n C      O    W      --                          6            ,      4 CM
6     W~  CD       K)   6      W~    K)    .n    00     N)   .      -,     CD    -- 4   W~   ~   -       K)    -6  CD               W~    Ul            CD     -- 4   N)   Q0 .c.n.
                                                      0~0-       -      Co 0 0        CD                                                                                              5D
             o6b~Kc                                                  ,                      oL             o            ob)           n          oK                     )                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   (D
                                     41in     401C                                                                                                   000040WW414                 4 1       41
     C)0              00               -                                                                                                                                            6       cC
w~    w~    m~  C)      m~     w~      w~  w~    -4     M~ U          W~   C     -      K)   W~  K)       -4   W~   M~        -- 4    CC   K)   .n   W~   -4~  .i-.    M~  K
                                                                    CD      "~  CD
                                                                                 0 , 0
                                                                                      CD   p~      "~            p~ "~ p~-    ~-. ~- OM~~-~-~- D--4
                                                                                                                                                     -~ p   -~   -~  p~ "~
                                                                                                                                                                    -"~2~
                                                                                                                                                                             CD   L         CD
                                                                                                                                                                                             0     C
        0OiQi              0         -,J6 l          0 -)                                    Cn6               o-4      o
                          4 -              D    P      P   M, 4 & 4 & 4                :,      , 4 1 M, m~                                                                              -r,        CDM
                                                                                                                                                                                    0
          xo                                         !QM~~N                                                                                                  K          c            -          ~
><
C.               M
                bo     P
                      -.     -.0     -      0  C)
                                               O
                                                     C     C-7      CC)    C)   m      m    m      m~ K)             ~ 0
                                                                                                                       K)
                                                                                                      I,                     C)      O N0)
                                                                                                                                    C.0O   C 0-JC D        cn          m    w
                                                               -
                                                      -~~~~~~~~c         C          C         C-rC3        CC    C -       C           Cm0C                               C
      o                 o                      b 6             oob           ww        w         K        w cnb -,jb                K)        ooob             oo               K0                 0 K
                                                                                                                                                                                                   -5
                        0        ~        O          0            O0             o         Co                    00                                0       000                              0
     C)                                   (D C)J CCD                                                                                           C                        )     )
                              W~ W                   o                                                                                    W                                                   D
                                                   C.)                                                                                                                                              _h(
     Co         pOCCC  -    pcp           pcpcpcpopoococ                                   pocopcpcoocpopoocp                                           p      p                                   CD
                                  C.)~~~C                                                                              CDooo cc 0~.
     co            Occ      o~                 CD occ           cco            co   CDCDO~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                  j
             -nW-4-                             MK         6          K0C.)                6 .),         40, -4    WN)0)                 -0                                01nMMWM       )-    l C
                  W. 4z.)      W      W    W)    A) CA      W         W     W              4,      P      W    W    W   P     W      W               W    W       W    z   CA)               C
     p4         p     p     10       p    pp         p                                                                       p      pp         p   p    1      10     x0            I

                              Table 20
         Results of PRRS Viral challenge Test
      Group No.       Number of        Number         Mortality
                        Animals          dead            Rate
           1                5              1             20%
           2                5              0              0%
           3                5              0              0%
           4                5              0              0%
           5                5              0              0%
           6                5              2             40%
For groups 1 to 5 combined, 24 out of 25 pigs survived the PRRSV JAX1
challenge wi th a 4% mortality rate. In the control group 6, 2 out of 5 pigs
died during early days of the challenge study with a mortality rate of 40%. In
the control group 6, all animals became sick, i.e. a morbidity rate of 100%.
The challenge study was considered valid based on the PRC Ministry of
Agriculture guidelines.
                                  76

                                           Table 21
                                            Sample Size                   Requirement
                                              PRRS prevalence rate in the herd
Number of pigs raised in a farm                10%                             5%
             <100                               25                             45
             200                                27                             51
             300                                28                             54
             400                                28                             55
             500                                28                             56
             1000                               29                             57
            >5000                               29                             59
      1.   Farms operated according to SOP, sow and regular pigs should be separated into two
          groups for blood collection.
     2.   Random sampling method is based on probability calculation.
                                               77

                                                                                         -     0
     c:
                        4-                 C)
                                      r--~~~~~0           N       )L    o   :       o  0
0            (         ) :T LO   I,-            00 00         Cf        D CN)
                                                                       0D
*- 14     0        coo    4O       ~0 O       C    ~        )        C    0
                                                                                           Cf f    T0 r- f OC C
  3-    U
E~                                                                                           00l :T3 0
                 I-0
                          M   O        C44    I         D     00    (   F     4'T-)          -    0 'Z(
_,                     Lo   - In       i-c~~-    c   4- zj-    Pi-: C,  N   0       (D  CN       4
               IN-                                                                               >
           0                                                                      Lna            a
                   N(9L                                        w I     nm                     E 0L4

                                          CLAIMS
1. A Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome (PRRS) vaccine composition,
   comprising a peptide antigen and a veterinarily acceptable delivery vehicle or adjuvant,
   wherein the peptide antigen comprises an amino acid sequence selected from the group
   consisting of:
              a)     SEQ ID NO: 9, SEQ ID NO: 10, SEQ ID NO: 11, SEQ ID NO: 12, and
              any combination thereof;
              b)     a homologue of (a); and
              c)     any combination of (a) or (b).
2. The PRRS vaccine according to claim 1, wherein the peptide antigen comprises the amino
   acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 9.
3. The PRRS vaccine according to claim 1, wherein the peptide antigen comprises the amino
   acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 10.
4. The PRRS vaccine according to claim 1, wherein the peptide antigen comprises the amino
   acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 11.
5. The PRRS vaccine according to claim 1, wherein the peptide antigen comprises the amino
   acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 12.
6. The PRRS vaccine according to claim 1, wherein the peptide antigen is altered by adding or
   deleting 1 to 5 amino acids.
                                              79

7.  The PRRS vaccine according to claim 1, further comprising a T helper epitope covalently
    linked to the amino- or carboxyl- terminus of the peptide antigen.
8.  The PRRS vaccine according to claim 7, wherein the T helper epitope is SEQ ID NOs: 35.
9.  The PRRS vaccine according to claim 7, wherein the T helper epitope is covalently linked to
    the peptide antigen through a spacer comprising an epsilon lysine residue.
10. The PRRS vaccine according to claim 9, wherein the spacer is SEQ ID NO: 36.
11. The PRRS vaccine according to claim 1, further comprising a T helper epitope that is
    unlinked to the antigenic peptide, wherein the T helper epitope is selected from the group
    consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 47-90.
12. The PRRS vaccine according to any of claim 1, wherein the total amount of peptide antigen
    is between about 10 gg to about 1 mg.
13. The PRRS vaccine according to claim 1, wherein the delivery vehicle and adjuvant is
    selected from a group consisting of Montanide ISA 50V, Polyoxyethylene (20) sorbitan
    monooleate, and a CpG oligonucleotide.
14. A method for protecting piglets against PRRS infection, comprising administering a vaccine
    according to claim 1.
15. A PRRS vaccine composition, comprising
               a)     a peptide antigen and a veterinarily acceptable delivery vehicle or adjuvant,
                                                80

              b)      a peptide antigen comprising an amino acid sequence selected from the
              group consisting of SEQ ID Nos: 10, 11, 12, 31, and a combination thereof, and
              c)      a PRRSV Th peptide selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs:
              80 - 90 and a combination thereof.
16. A PRRS vaccine composition, comprising
              a)     a peptide antigen and a veterinarily acceptable delivery vehicle or adjuvant,
              b)      a peptide antigen comprising an amino acid sequence selected from the
              group consisting of SEQ ID Nos: 42, 44, 45, 46, and a combination thereof, and
              c)      a PRRSV Th peptide selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs:
              80 - 90 and a combination thereof.
17. A method for diagnosing PRRS infection comprising the steps of:
              a)     attaching a mixture of SEQ ID NO: 1 and SEQ ID NO: 2 to a solid support,
              b)      exposing said peptide attached to said solid support to a swine blood,
              serum or plasma sample containing antibodies, under conditions conducive to
              binding of the antibody to the peptide, and
              c)      detecting the presence of antibodies bound to said peptide attached to said
              solid support.
18. An ELISA immunoassay for testing the presence of anti-PRRSV antibodies comprising the
    steps of:
              a)     attaching a mixture of SEQ ID NO: 7 and SEQ ID NO: 8 to a solid support,
              b)      exposing said peptide attached to said solid support to a swine blood,
              serum or plasma sample containing antibodies, under conditions conducive to
              binding of the antibody to the peptide, and
                                               81

c) detecting the presence of antibodies bound to said peptide attached to said support.
                         United Biomedical, Inc.
        Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                        SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-date>
                                   ! "! # $"%! &" ' ("& ) *+"* , ## "   & -    .(! #    (!"/ 0.*
                                 00"#! 1" . !*.2 .0 $.*# " 3"%*.&4#! 1"    & 3"(% * !.*
                                   &*./" 5$33 6
                7            $                     5             78        9 :      7       9 6
                                          7        ;;
<removed-apn>
                             $        <                 <        77
                                                   7
                             $ !" !                    1"*( .         78
                             $3
                    7        $.*#              " *"%*.&4#! 1"                    & *"(% * !.*             (        &*./" 1 *4(
                             $ $ -
                             5 6885 6
                    7        $33 , )-                       <   <99 ;       7 < 4#2".# %( & %*.!"                            5$            68
              $*. 9(             9(           9(        2        (     2     2          (        (    (        (     2       9(%      2         2
              $*. , 2 9(                       2        "4       (     2    )"!     "4       2        (       2"     2" 92            2         2
                                                                                                                        7
               "*       2            "* 9*             , 2       (     2    $*.     2       9*        ( 9(               (        (       ( 9(
                                 7
              $*.       24            ( $*. = ( $ " $*.                      "4 92               *   24 9(% 9(% , 2 9*                      = (
              = ( $ "                 * $*.             "*      24
                              7
                             $3
                    7        $.*#              " *"%*.&4#! 1"                    & *"(% * !.*             (        &*./" 1 *4(
                             $ $ -
                             5 6885 76
                    7        $33 , )-                       <   <99 ;       7 < 4#2".# %( & %*.!"                            5        9     76
                                                                                       $ "

<removed-date>
               24         ( $*. = ( $ " $*.                        "4 92                *       24 9(% 9(% , 2 9*                            = ( = (
              $ "         * $*.              "*       24 9*        2       "4           (       "4       "*          "*     2"       2            * 92
                                                                                                                                 7
              $ " 9(                  2      2       92      2         *       (    2"          "4       "* 9(%             "*       2       9*       2"
                                  7
<removed-apn>
               "*         *               * , 2       24 $ "       "*      "4 $*.                   * = ( = (                * , 2 9*                 "4
               2" 9*              , 2            * 92       $*. $*.        "* 92
                              7
                                 7
                              $3
                    7         $.*#           " *"%*.&4#! 1"                    & *"(% * !.*                      (        &*./" 1 *4(
                              $ $ -
                              5 6885 76
                    7         $33 , )-                      (.2 !"<99 ;             7 < 4#2".# %( & %*.!"                                        5)   9       76
                              7
              )"! $*. 9(                    9(       9(      2         (   2        2               (        (        (      (       2       9(%      2
               2        $*. , 2 9(                    2      "4        (   2       )"!          "4       2            (     2"       2" 92            2
                                                                                                                                 7
               2         "*           2      "* 9*          , 2        (   2       $*.          2       9*            ( 9(               (        (       (
                                  7
              9(        $*.           24         ( $*. = ( $ " $*.                  "4 92                    *       24 9(% 9(% , 2 9*
              = ( = ( $ "                        * $*.       "*    24 9*            2           "4           (       "4     "*       "*          2"   2
                   * 92           $ " 9(              2      2    92       2            *           (    2"          "4     "* 9(%               "*   2
                                                                                            ;                                                ;
              9*         2"           "*         *        * , 2    24 $ "           "*          "4 $*.                * = ( = (                   * , 2
                                                                                                    $    "

<removed-date>
              9*         "4        2" 9*         , 2         * 92       $*. $*.              "* 92
                                 7
                              $3
                    7         $.*#       " *"%*.&4#! 1"                      & *"(% * !.*                     (        &*./" 1 *4(
                              $ $ -
<removed-apn>
                              5 6885 76
                    7         $33 , >?9                (.2 !"<9          ;7         < 4#2".# %( & %*.!"                                   5)       9           768
              )"! $*. 9(                9(       9(      2          (    2      2                (       (         (         (       2    9(           2
               2        $*. , 2 9(                2      "4         (    2     )"!           "4      2             (     2"          2" 92             2
                                                                                                                                 7
               2        9(         2     "* 9*           2          (    2     $*.           2           (         ( 9(          9*            (           (
                               7
              9(        $*.        24        ( $*. = ( $ " $*.                  "4 92                    *        24 9(% 9(% , 2 9*
              = ( = ( $ "                    * $*.       "*     24 9*           2            "4          (        "4     "*          "*       2"       2
                   * 92        $ " 9(             2      2     92        2          *            ( 92             "4     "* 9(%               "*       2
                                                                                         ;                                                ;
              9*         2"        "*        *        * , 2     24 $ "          "*           "4 $*.                *     2       = (           * , 2
              9*         "4        2" 9*         92          * 92        "* $*.              "* 92
                                 7
                              $3
                    7         $.*#       " *"%*.&4#! 1"                      & *"(% * !.*                     (        &*./" 1 *4(
                              $ $ -
                              5 6885 76
                    7         $33 , .*!                9/"* #           (!*             .0 ,3            77        <99-              7 < 4#2".# %( &
                              %*.!"  5)                9 768
                                                                                                 $   " 7

<removed-date>
              )"! $*. 9(                   9(        9(         2          (   2      2               ( 9*                (         (       2       9(%          2
               2        $*. , 2 9(                       2      "4         (   2     )"!          "4      2               (     2"          2" 92                2
                                                                                                                                        7
               2        9(         2        "* 9*               2          (   2     $*.          2           (           ( 9(                  (           (        (
                               7
<removed-apn>
              9(        $*.        24           ( $*. = ( $ " $*.                     "4 92                   *       24 9(% 9(% , 2 9*
              = ( = ( $ "                       * $*.           "*     24 9*          2           "4          (       "4        "*          "*          2"       2
                   * 92        $ " 9(                    2      2     92       2          *           (       *       "4        "* 9(%                  "*       2
                                                                                              ;                                                     ;
              9*         2"        "*           *            * , 2     24 $ "         "*          "4 $*.                  * = ( = (                         * , 2
              9*         "4        2" 9*             , 2            * 92       "* $*.             "* 92
                              $3
                    7         $.*#          " *"%*.&4#! 1"                         & *"(% * !.*                   (           &*./" 1 *4(
                              $ $ -
                              5 6885                 6
                    7         $33 ,                      (.2 !"            ,       <@"2       4/<             7               < 4#2".# %( & %*.!"
                              5)                    68
              )"! 92               2       9*        9(        9*      "*      2          (           (       (           ( 9(          $*. 92                  $*.
              )"!        2     9(          9(%           2     $*. , 2 9(             2           "4          (       2         "4          "4          2       92
                                                                                                                                        7
              )"! )"!                  (    "* 9*              9*      2       2     $*. 9*               2           2         2       92                  (        (
                               7
              9*             ( $*.          24               ( $*. = ( $ " $*.                    "4 92           92            24 9(% 9(% , 2
                                                                                                      $   "

<removed-date>
              9*        = ( = (             "4           *    2             *       24 9*                 "*       "4            (        "4       2           "*    2"
               2             * 92          $ " 9(             2         2       92              2        , 2 92              "*           "4       "*          "*    "*
                                                                                                         ;                                                 ;
               2             ( , 2          "* $ "            2       , 2           24 $ " )"!                     "4 $*. , 2 92                           = (           *
              , 2 9*                  "4    2" 9*            , 2            *       "*              *     "* 92              "*           2    9(% 92               9(
<removed-apn>
                                 $3
                    7            $.*#       " *"%*.&4#! 1"                              & *"(% * !.*                     (           &*./" 1 *4(
                                 $ $ -
                                 5 6885 6
                    7            $33 , 4*.%"                      (!*           <           ,           <@"2       4/<               7         < 4#2".# %( &
                                 %*.!"  59                        68
              92         2        9*       9(       9*        "*        2               (           (         (        ( 9(              $*. 92            $*. )"!
               2        9(        9(%       2       $*. , 2 9(                      2           "4            (    2         "4           "4       2       92       )"!
                                                                                                                                               7
              )"!            (        "* 9*         9*        2         2       $*. 9*                    2        2         2           92            (        ( 9*
                                  7
                   ( $*.              24        ( $*. = ( $ " $*.                               "4 92             92         24 9(% 9(% , 2 9*
              = ( = (                 "4        *    2            *     24
                                 $3
                    7            $.*#       " *"%*.&4#! 1"                              & *"(% * !.*                     (           &*./" 1 *4(
                                 $ $ -
                                 5 6885 6
                    7            $33 , 4*.%"                      (!*           <           ,           <@"2       4/<               7         < 4#2".# %( &
                                 %*.!"  5$                          68
                                                                                                              $    "

<removed-date>
              $*.        24        ( $*. = ( $ " $*.                       "4 92     92       24 9(% 9(% , 2 9*                          = (
              = (        "4        *    2            *     24 9*           "*   "4        (   "4        2         "*       2"       2         *
                                                                                                                       7
              92        $ " 9(          2        2        92      2       , 2 92      "*      "4        "*        "*       "*       2         (
                            7
<removed-apn>
              , 2        "* $ "         2       , 2        24 $ " )"!           "4 $*. , 2 92                    = (           * , 2 9*
               "4        2" 9*         , 2           *     "*         *    "* 92      "*      2     9(% 92             9(
                              ;
                              7
                              $3
                    7         $.*#      " *"%*.&4#! 1"                       & *"(% * !.*           (           &*./" 1 *4(
                              $ $ -
                              5 68857 6
                    7         $33 , )-                    (.2 !"<99 ;           7 <" 1"2.%" %*.!"                              $    5,        -    68
                              ;
              , 2 $*. $ "                   (    "4 92           92        "4 , 2     "* 92         9(            2    9(           "*    "*
               "* = (             "*    2        "4        2"         * 9(      "4        *   "4            (     24       "4 9(          2
                                                                                                                       7
                   * 9(%
                              $3
                    7         $.*#      " *"%*.&4#! 1"                       & *"(% * !.*           (           &*./" 1 *4(
                              $ $ -
                              5 6885 6
                    7         $33 , >?9                  (.2 !"<9          ;7      <" 1"2.%" %*.!"                         $       5,             7 68
              , 2        "* 9*         9*       )"!            * 9*        2" )"!     24          ( 92            2        2       92    92
                                                                                          $   "

<removed-date>
               *%           (        2       , 2 , 2      "*    24 92         *   "4
                                 ;
                                $3
                       7        $.*#          " *"%*.&4#! 1"              & *"(% * !.*          (       &*./" 1 *4(
                                $ $ -
                                5 6885 ;6
<removed-apn>
                       7        $33 , >?9               (.2 !"<9      ;7      <" 1"2.%" %*.!"                  $75                   68
                   ( $*.                 * 9*       2    92    92    92      24   2"    "4          24 $*.     2            (   "*
              $ "          *%            (
                                $3
                       7        $.*#          " *"%*.&4#! 1"              & *"(% * !.*          (       &*./" 1 *4(
                                $ $ -
                                5 6885 6
                       7        $33 , >?9               (.2 !"<9      ;7      <" 1"2.%" %*.!"                  $       5             ;68
                   (       "4 9*             = (    2    9(%    "*    "*     "* $*.         *       2" 9*          (       "*   "*
               2            (
                                  7
                                7
                                $3
                       7        $.*#          " *"%*.&4#! 1"              & *"(% * !.*          (       &*./" 1 *4(
                                $ $ -
                                5 68857 6
                       7        $33 , >?9 <9              ;7    7<" 1"2.%" %*.!"                    $    5,    -       68
                                 7
              , 2 $*. $ "                       *   "4 92      , 2    "4 , 2 9(        92           "* 9(     9(       9(       "*
                                                                                   $    "

<removed-date>
               "* = (             2"   2       "4     2"      * 9(        "4         *    "4            (     24       "4 9(         2
                                                                                                                   7
                   * 9(%
                             7
                             $3
                    7        $.*#      " *"%*.&4#! 1"                  & *"(% * !.*                (        &*./" 1 *4(
<removed-apn>
                             $ $ -
                             5 68857 6
                    7        $33 , .*!              9/"* #        ,3     77 <99-                  ;<" 1"2.%" %*.!"                        $
                             5,   - 68
              , 2 $*. $ "                  ( $ " 92        , 2     "4 92        9(       92            "* 9(       9(%          "*   "*
               "* = (             "4   2       "4     2"      * 9(        "4         *    "4            (     24       "4 9(         2
                                                                                                                   7
                   * 9(%
                             7
                             $3
                    7        $.*#      " *"%*.&4#! 1"                  & *"(% * !.*                (        &*./" 1 *4(
                             $ $ -
                             5 68857 6
                    7        $33 ,      (.2 !"                ,        <@"2     4/<           7             <" 1"2.%" %*.!"                   $
                             5A      68
              $ "       "*        "4       (   2"     2      "4    "*     *%     "* $ " 92                   9(%       2       9(    2
              9(        "*        "*       *    *     2       *    2"         * 9(        "4            *     2"           (    24   "4
                                                                                                                   7
              9(        2          *       *
                              7
                             7
                             $3
                                                                                     $    "

<removed-date>
                    7           $.*#        " *"%*.&4#! 1"                  & *"(% * !.*           (        &*./" 1 *4(
                                $ $ -
                                5 68857 6
                    7            . (" (4( ("B4" #" 0*./ $33 , )-                                   >?9            ,3           77         &              ,    <
                                " 1"2.%" %*.!"    $ 5,    - 68
              , 2 $*. $ "                       (    "4 92       , 2    "4 , 2          "* 92          "* 9(%              2        9(    9(
<removed-apn>
              9(        "*           "* = (          2"    2      "4    2"         * 9(       "4        *     "4               (     24       "4
                                                                                                                       7
              9(        2                * 9(%
                                 7
                                $3
                    7           $.*#        " *"%*.&4#! 1"                  & *"(% * !.*           (        &*./" 1 *4(
                                $ $ -
                                5 6885 6
                    7           $33 , )-                  (.2 !"<99 ;          7 <" 1"2.%" %*.!"                               $     5,                7 68
              , 2       "* 9*              9*       )"!        * 9*     2" )"!          24      ( 92          2            2        92    92
               *%           (        2     , 2 , 2 9(             24 92            *    "4
                                $3
                    7           $.*#        " *"%*.&4#! 1"                  & *"(% * !.*           (        &*./" 1 *4(
                                $ $ -
                                5 6885 6
                    7           $33 , .*! 9/"* #                       ,3     77       <99-            <" 1"2.%" %*.!"                             $
                                5,     7 6
              , 2       "* 9*              9*       )"!        * 9*     2" )"!          24      ( 92          2            2        92    92
               *%           (        2     , 2 , 2         "*     24 92            *    "4
                                                                                          $   " ;

<removed-date>
                              ;
                             $3
                    7        $.*#        " *"%*.&4#! 1"                        & *"(% * !.*            (        &*./" 1 *4(
                             $ $ -
                             5 6885          6
                    7        $33 ,             (.2 !"                 ,        <@"2       4/<      7            <" 1"2.%" %*.!"                $
<removed-apn>
                             5,              7 68
                              ;
              , 2       "* 9*           9*        2"         *    2            * )"!       24 = (          "*     2        2    92       92
               *%        (        2     , 2 , 2          "*       24 92               *    "4
                             $3
                    7        $.*#        " *"%*.&4#! 1"                        & *"(% * !.*            (        &*./" 1 *4(
                             $ $ -
                             5 6885 6
                    7         . (" (4( ("B4" #" 0*./ $33 ,                                  )-             >?9        ,3       77         &        ,
                             " 1"2.%" %*.!"   .0 $ 5,                                       7 68
              , 2       "* 9*           9*       )"!         * 9*          2" )"!          24      ( 92           2        2    92       92
               *%        (        2     , 2 , 2          "*       24 92               *    "4
                              ;
                             $3
                    7        $.*#        " *"%*.&4#! 1"                        & *"(% * !.*            (        &*./" 1 *4(
                             $ $ -
                             5 6885 ;6
                    7        $33 , )-                 <99 ;       7 <" 1"2.%" %*.!"                         $7 5                    68
                (       "4            * 9*        2     92       92       92      2        "4      *       24 $*.          "* 9*          "*
                                                                                            $   "

<removed-date>
               "4       *%        (
                              ;
                             $3
                    7        $.*#     " *"%*.&4#! 1"               & *"(% * !.*            (     &*./" 1 *4(
                             $ $ -
<removed-apn>
                             5 6885 ;6
                    7        $33 , .*!         9/"* #         ,3       77    <99-              <" 1"2.%" %*.!"                  $7
                             5       68
                (       "4        * 9*     2    92   92            *    24    2"       *       24 $*.    2        9*       "*
               "4       *%        (
                              7
                              ;
                             $3
                    7        $.*#     " *"%*.&4#! 1"               & *"(% * !.*            (     &*./" 1 *4(
                             $ $ -
                             5 6885 ;6
                    7        $33 ,      (.2 !"            ,        <@"2      4/<       7         <" 1"2.%" %*.!"                     $7
                             5       68
                              7
                (       "4        *   "*   2    92   92            (    2    9*       "4       24 $*.    2        9*   9(
              )"!       *%        (
                              ;
                             $3
                    7        $.*#     " *"%*.&4#! 1"               & *"(% * !.*            (     &*./" 1 *4(
                             $ $ -
                             5 6885 ;6
                    7         . (" (4( ("B4" #" 0*./ $33 , )-                              >?9      ,3       77        &              ,
                             " 1"2.%" %*.!"   .0 $7 5         68
                                                                                  $   "

<removed-date>
                  (       "4      * 9*      2    92    92       92      24    2"    "4        24 $*.   2       9*   "*
              "4          *%      (
                               $3
                      7        $.*#    " *"%*.&4#! 1"                & *"(% * !.*         (     &*./" 1 *4(
<removed-apn>
                               $ $ -
                               5 6885 6
                      7        $33 , )-          (.2 !"<99 ;            77<" 1"2.%" %*.!"                  $    5        ;68
                  (       "4 9*       = (   2    9(    $*.       "*     "*    24 92           2" 9*        (    2" $*.
              2            (
                               $3
                      7        $.*#    " *"%*.&4#! 1"                & *"(% * !.*         (     &*./" 1 *4(
                               $ $ -
                               5 6885 6
                      7        $33 , .*!        9/"* #          ,3     77    <99-             <" 1"2.%" %*.!"            $
                               5      ;68
                  (       "4 9*       = ( 9*     9(%     "* 92          "*    24 92           2" 9*        (    2" $*.
              2            (
                               $3
                      7        $.*#    " *"%*.&4#! 1"                & *"(% * !.*         (     &*./" 1 *4(
                               $ $ -
                               5 6885 6
                      7        $33 ,      (.2 !"            ,        <@"2    4/<      7         <" 1"2.%" %*.!"              $
                               5      ;68
                                                                               $    "

<removed-date>
                   (        "4 9*              $*.       * 9*           * 9(           *    *   2        2       ( , 2 $*.               "*
               2                (
                                    $3
<removed-apn>
                       7            $.*#        " *"%*.&4#! 1"                  & *"(% * !.*         (        &*./" 1 *4(
                                    $ $ -
                                    5 6885 6
                       7             . (" (4( ("B4" #" 0*./ $33 , )-                                 >?9         ,3        77        &             ,
                                    " 1"2.%" %*.!"   .0 $ 5        ;68
                   (        "4 9*              $*.   2       9(%    "*      "*     "*      24 92         2" 9*             (    2"       "*
               2                (
                                        ;
                                    $3
                       7            $.*#        " *"%*.&4#! 1"                  & *"(% * !.*         (        &*./" 1 *4(
                                    $ $ -
                                    5 6885 6
                       7            $33 , )-                 (.2 !"<99 ;           7 <" 1"2.%" %*.!"                       $    59            68
                                        ;
              92           92               "4 , 2   "* 92         9(       2     9(       "*   "*       "* = (           "*    2        "4
               2"               * 9(            "4       *    "4        (   24     "4 9(        2            * 9(%        *%    "4 92
                                                                                                                      7
                   (            ( $ " 9(%            *% 92         , 2      24
                                  7
                                    7
                                    $3
                       7            $.*#        " *"%*.&4#! 1"                  & *"(% * !.*         (        &*./" 1 *4(
                                                                                            $   "    7

<removed-date>
                        $ $ -
                        5 6885 6
                 7      $33 , )-                   (.2 !"<99 ;          7 <" 1"2.%" %*.!"                       $        5,                 6
                        7
              , 2 $*. $ "                (   "4 92       92      "4 , 2      "* 92      9(            2    9(            "*       "*
               "* = (           "*   2       "4     2"        * 9(      "4    *    "4        (        24       "4 9(              2
                                                                                                           7
<removed-apn>
                * 9(%           *%   "4 92           (        ( $ " 9(%      *% 92      , 2           24
                            7
                        7
                        7
                        $3
                 7      $.*#         " *"%*.&4#! 1"                  & *"(% * !.*       (        &*./" 1 *4(
                        $ $ -
                        5 68857 6
                 7      $33 , >?9             (.2 !"<99 ;             7 <" 1"2.%" %*.!"                    $        5,        -        68
                        7
              , 2 $*. $ "                (   "4 92       , 2     "4 , 2 9(        92        "* 9(          9(           9(        "*
               "* = (           2"   2       "4     2"        * 9(      "4    *    "4        (        24       "4 9(              2
                                                                                                           7
                * 9(%
                        7
                        7
                        $3
                 7      $.*#         " *"%*.&4#! 1"                  & *"(% * !.*       (        &*./" 1 *4(
                        $ $ -
                        5 68857 6
                 7       ./'   !.*                2 ("B4" #" .0 $33 , >?9 <9                     ;7       7         &
                        )-   <99 ;                7 <" 1"2.%" %*.!"    $ 5,                       -       68
                        5 6885 6
                 7      , .* 9
                                                                              $    "

<removed-date>
                        5        6885       6
                 7              .*
                        5        6885       6
                 7              .*
                        5 76885 76
                 7        .*
<removed-apn>
                        5        6885       6
                 7              .*
                        5 6885              6
                 7      = .*
                        5 ;6885 ;6
                 7        .*
                        7
              , 2 $*. $ "               (       "4 92     ?      "4 , 2 ?        92    ?        ?        9(      ?           "*
               "* ?         ?       2           "4   2"       * 9(      "4   *    "4       (        24       "4 9(           2
                                                                                                         7
                * 9(%
                        77
                        7
                        $3
                 7      $.*#        " *"%*.&4#! 1"                   & *"(% * !.*      (       &*./" 1 *4(
                        $ $ -
                        5 68857 6
                 7       ./'   !.* 2 ("B4" #" 0*./ $33 , >?9 <9                                     ;7       7       &   >        <9   7
                        .0 " 1"2.%" %*.!"   $ 5,    - 68
                        5 6885 6
                 7        .* A
                        5 6885 6
                 7      , .* 9
                                                                             $    "

<removed-date>
                        5;6885;6
                 7      , .* 9
                        5        6885        6
                 7              .*
<removed-apn>
                        5        6885        6
                 7              .*
                        5 76885 76
                 7        .*
                        5        6885        6
                 7              .* -
                        5        6885        6
                 7              .*
                        5 6885               6
                 7      = .*
                        5 ;6885 ;6
                 7        .*   .*
                        77
              , 2 $*. $ "                  ( ?        92    ?      "4 ?        ?       92    ?        ?        ?      ?    "*
               "* ?         ?          2         "4    2"       * 9(      "4       *    "4       (        24       "4 9(   2
                                                                                                               7
                * 9(%
                        7
                        $3
                 7      $.*#           " *"%*.&4#! 1"                  & *"(% * !.*          (       &*./" 1 *4(
                        $ $        -
                                                                                   $    "

<removed-date>
                             5 6885 6
                   7          ./'   !.* 2 ("B4" #" 0*./ $33 ,   >                                      <9    7          >?9 <9   ;7   7
                               & )-   <99 ; 7 .0 " 1"2.%" %*.!"                                         $    5           68
                             5 6885 6
                   7         A .*
                             5 6885 6
                   7         9 .* ,
<removed-apn>
                             5 6885 6
                   7         9 .* ,
                             5 6885 6
                   7           .*
                             5;6885;6
                   7           .*
                             5     6885      6
                   7              .*
                             5 6885          6
                   7         - .*
                             5     6885      6
                   7              .*
                             5 6885          6
                   7         = .*
                             5     6885 6
                   7              .*   .*
                             7
                  ( ?            92    ?         "4 ?        ?       92    ?       ?       ?       ?        "*   "* ?      ?
              2         "4        2"       * 9(         "4       *    "4       (
                                                                                       $       "

<removed-date>
                            7
                             ;
                            $3
                   7        )" (2"( 1 *4(
                            $ $ -
                            5 6885 ;6
                   7         ./'   !.*          2 /.& 0 "&     "2%"* %"%! &"8
<removed-apn>
                            5 6885 6
                   7          .*
                            5 6885 6
                   7        C .* 3
                            5 6885 6
                   7          .*
                            5 6885     6
                   7        = .*
                            5 76885 76
                   7        C .* 3
                            7
              2"       "*       2" ?       24     2" ?    ?   , 2   2" , 2 ?    ?   2"   24   *
              2"       "4 $ "
                            7
                            $3
                   7        9*! 0 #    2        "B4" #"
                   7        DDDDDDDD
                            $ $ -
                            5 6885 6
                   7        9*! 0 # 2 2           +"& (% #"* ("B4" #"8
                            7
                                                                     $   "

<removed-date>
                   (            (        (      (
                                    7
                                     7
                                    $3
                       7            $.*#     " *"%*.&4#! 1"                            & *"(% * !.*                 (        &*./" 1 *4(
                                    $ $ -
                                    5 6885 6
<removed-apn>
                       7            $33 , )-             <99 ;        7           .0 "1"2.%" %*.!"                            $    59               68
                                    $ $ -
                                    5 6885 6
                       7            2 +"& (%"#"*                C 5           6        ( "%( 2.            C8
                                    $ $ -
                                    5 6885 76
                       7            9*! 0 # 2 #./'                    !.*              2            "2%"* ("B4" #" 5/.& 0 "&                                  "2%"*
                                    ( !"68
                                    5    6885       6
                       7                .*
                                    5 6885          6
                       7            C .* 3
                                    5    6885       6
                       7                .*
                                    5 6885          6
                       7            = .*
                                    5 6885          6
                       7            C .* 3
                                    7
              92           92           "4 , 2          "* 92     9(               2       9(         "*    "*          "* = (             "*   2        "4
               2"               * 9(         "4          *   "4           (        24       "4 9(           2            * 9(%             *%   "4 92
                                                                                                                                       7
                   (            ( $ " 9(%               *% 92     , 2              24           (      (        (        (        2"       "*   2" ?
                                  7
                                                                                                       $    "       ;

<removed-date>
               24       2" ?        ?           , 2      2" , 2 ?             ?          2"    24        *     2"       "4 $ "
                          7
                          $3
                    7     $.*#          " *"%*.&4#! 1"                    & *"(% * !.*              (        &*./" 1 *4(
<removed-apn>
                          $ $ -
                          5 6885 6
                    7     $33 , )-                   <99 ;     7        .0 " 1"2.%" %*.!"                      $    5,           68
                          $ $ -
                          5 6885 ;6
                    7     2 +"& (% #"*: C 5                         6     ( "%( 2.            C8
                          $ $ -
                          5 6885                6
                    7     9*! 0 #               2 #./'         !.*        2            "2%"* ("B4" #" 5/.& 0 "&                        "2%"*
                          ( !"68
                          5 76885 76
                    7       .*
                          5 6885                6
                    7     C .* 3
                          5     6885            6
                    7          .*
                          5 6885                6
                    7     = .*
                          5 6885                6
                    7     C .* 3
                          7
              , 2 $*. $ "                   (       "4 92     92         "4 , 2          "* 92      9(         2    9(      "*    "*
               "* = (          "*       2           "4   2"        * 9(           "4      *    "4        (     24       "4 9(     2
                                                                                                                    7
                                                                                          $    "

<removed-date>
               * 9(%             *%     "4 92        (         ( $ " 9(%         *% 92     , 2        24        (       (        (
                             7
               (       2"        "*     2" ?        24     2" ?          ?      , 2    2" , 2 ?            ?        2"       24
               *       2"        "4 $ "
                            7;
<removed-apn>
                            $3
                   7        $.*#        " *"%*.&4#! 1"               & *"(% * !.*          (     &*./" 1 *4(
                            $ $ -
                            5 6885 ;6
                   7        9*! 0 # 2 #./'                 !.*       2         "2%"* ("B4" #" 5/.& 0 "&                              "2%"*
                            ( !"68
                            5 6885 6
                   7          .*
                            5 6885 6
                   7        C .* 3
                            5 6885 6
                   7          .*
                            5 6885         6
                   7        = .*
                            5 76885 76
                   7        C .* 3
                            $ $ -
                            5 6885 76
                   7           +"& (% #"*            C 5 76          ( "%( 2.         C8
                            $ $ -
                            5 6885 6
                   7        $33 , )- <9A                   7     .0 " 1"2.%" %*.!"                    $    5,       -       68
                            7;
              2"       "*        2" ?          24   2" ?         ?       , 2     2" , 2 ?         ?            2"   24           *
                                                                                  $    "

<removed-date>
              2"       "4 $ "             (        (      (       ( , 2 $*. $ "           (       "4 92          92         "4 , 2
                                                                                                                 7
              "* 92          9(       2       9(       "*     "*     "*   *     "*    2           "4        2"        * 9(         "4
                             7
               *       "4         (   24          "4 9(       2       * 9(%
<removed-apn>
                            $3
                   7        $.*#      " *"%*.&4#! 1"                  & *"(% * !.*            (        &*./" 1 *4(
                            $ $ -
                            5 6885 ;6
                   7        9*! 0 # 2 #./'                    !.*     2       "2%"* ("B4" #" 5/.& 0 "&                                  "2%"*
                            ( !"68
                            5 6885 6
                   7          .*
                            5 6885 6
                   7        C .* 3
                            5 6885 6
                   7          .*
                            5 6885            6
                   7        = .*
                            5 76885 76
                   7        C .* 3
                            $ $ -
                            5 6885 76
                   7        2 +"& (% #"*                  C 5 76      ( "%( 2.       C8
                            $ $ -
                            5 6885 6
                   7        $33 , >?9 < A                          .0 " 1"2.%" %*.!"                    $    5,         -     6:
                                                                                 $    "

<removed-date>
               2"           "*        2" ?            24    2" ?          ?        , 2        2" , 2 ?                    ?         2"   24    *
               2"           "4 $ "            (        (        (       ( , 2 $*. $ "                       (       "4 92          , 2   "4 , 2
                                                                                                                                   7
              9(           92         "* 9(       9(       9(       "*        "* = (          2"        2           "4        2"     * 9(     "4
                                  7
                   *        "4         (     24       "4 9(         2          * 9(%
<removed-apn>
                                 $3
                       7         $.*#        " *"%*.&4#! 1"                    & *"(% * !.*                     (        &*./" 1 *4(
                                 $ $ -
                                 5 6885 ;6
                       7         9*! 0 # 2 #./'                     !.*        2         "2%"* ("B4" #" 5/.& 0 "&                                  "2%"*
                                 ( !"68
                                 5 6885 6
                       7           .*
                                 5 6885 6
                       7         C .* 3
                                 5 6885 6
                       7           .*
                                 5 6885           6
                       7         = .*
                                 5 76885 76
                       7         C .* 3
                                 $ $ -
                                 5 6885 76
                       7         2 +"& (% #"*                   C 5 76         ( "%( 2.             C8
                                 $ $ -
                                 5 6885 6
                       7          ./'   !.* 2 ("B4" #" 0*./                               $        5,           -        6 .0 $33 , >?9 < A
                                   & )-   <9A   7 8
                                                                                               $        "       7

<removed-date>
                                 57 68857 6
                       7         , .* 9
                                 5776885776
                       7           .*
<removed-apn>
                                 57 68857 6
                       7           .*
                                 57 68857 6
                       7           .*
                                 57 68857 6
                       7           .*
                                 5 6885                6
                       7         = .*
                                 5        6885         6
                       7                 .*
                  2"        "*           2" ?              24       2" ?         ?      , 2       2" , 2 ?               ?            2"   24    *
                  2"        "4 $ "                 (        (        (         ( , 2 $*. $ "               (       "4 92          ?        "4 , 2
                                                                                                                                  7
              ?            92        ?        ?        9(       ?          "*        "* ?     ?        2           "4        2"        * 9(     "4
                                     7
                   *        "4            (       24       "4 9(           2          * 9(%
                                 $3
                       7         $.*#             " *"%*.&4#! 1"                      & *"(% * !.*             (        &*./" 1 *4(
                                 $ $ -
                                 5 6885 ;6
                                                                                                   $   "

<removed-date>
              7   9*! 0 #     2 #./'      !.*   2    "2%"* ("B4" #" 5/.& 0 "&       "2%"*
                  ( !"68
                  5 6885 6
              7     .*
                  5 6885 6
              7   C .* 3
<removed-apn>
                  5 6885 6
              7     .*
                  5 6885      6
              7   = .*
                  5 76885 76
              7   C .* 3
                  $ $ -
                  5 6885 76
              7   2 +"& (% #"*         C 5 76   ( "% ( 2.   C8
                  $ $ -
                  5 6885 6
              7    ./'   !.* 2 ("B4" #" 0*./ " 1"2.%" %*.!"           $   5,    -     6 .0
                  $33 , >?9 < A        & > <9 7       8
                  5    6885   6
              7       .* A
                  57 68857 6
              7   , .* 9
                  57 68857 6
              7   , .* 9
                  5776885776
              7     .*
                  57 68857 6
              7     .*
                                                        $   "

<removed-date>
                                 57 68857 6
                       7           .*
                                 57 68857 6
                       7           .* -
<removed-apn>
                                 57 68857 6
                       7           .*
                                 5 6885                6
                       7         = .*
                                 5        6885 6
                       7                 .*   .*
                  2"        "*           2" ?              24       2" ?         ?        , 2        2" , 2 ?             ?            2"   24      *
                  2"        "4 $ "                 (        (        (         ( , 2 $*. $ "                  ( ?         92       ?        "4 ?
                                                                                                                                   7
              ?            92        ?        ?        ?        ?          "*        "* ?        ?        2         "4        2"        * 9(       "4
                                     7
                   *        "4            (       24       "4 9(           2          * 9(%
                                     7
                                 $3
                       7         $.*#             " *"%*.&4#! 1"                      & *"(% * !.*              (        &*./" 1 *4(
                                 $ $ -
                                 5 6885 ;6
                       7         9*! 0 # 2 #./'                            !.*        2         "2%"* ("B4" #" 5/.& 0 "&                                "2%"*
                                 ( !"68
                                 5 6885 6
                       7           .*
                                                                                                      $   "

<removed-date>
                  5 6885 6
              7   C .* 3
                  5 6885 6
              7     .*
                  5 6885     6
              7   = .*
<removed-apn>
                  5 76885 76
              7   C .* 3
                  $ $ -
                  5 6885 76
              7      +"& (% #"*   C 5 76   ( "%( 2.       C8
                  $ $ -
                  5 6885 6
              7    ./'  !.* 2 ("B4" #" 0*./ " 1"2.%" %*.!"       $   5         6 .0
                  $33 , > <9 7       >?9 < A         & )-      <9A       7 8
                  5 6885     6
              7   A .*
                  5 6885     6
              7   9 .* ,
                  5 ;6885 ;6
              7   9 .* ,
                  57 68857 6
              7     .*
                  57 68857 6
              7     .*
                  5776885776
              7     .*
                  57 68857 6
              7   - .*
                                                      $    "

<removed-date>
                                    57 68857 6
                       7              .*
                                    57 68857 6
                       7            = .*
<removed-apn>
                                    57;68857;6
                       7              .*   .*
                                     7
                  2"           "*        2" ?            24     2" ?           ?           , 2      2" , 2 ?               ?            2"    24       *
                  2"           "4 $ "            (        (      (        (            ( ?         92       ?           "4 ?        ?        92    ?
                                                                                                                                    7
              ?            ?         ?          "*       "* ?        ?             2         "4     2"          * 9(           "4        *    "4       (
                                     7
                                    $3
                       7            $.*#        " *"%*.&4#! 1"                         & *"(% * !.*                 (     &*./" 1 *4(
                                    $ $ -
                                    5 6885 ;6
                       7            9*! 0 # 2 #./'                       !.*           2          "2%"* ("B4" #" 5/.& 0 "&                                 "2%"*
                                    ( !"68
                                    5 6885 6
                       7              .*
                                    5 6885 6
                       7            C .* 3
                                    5 6885 6
                       7              .*
                                    5 6885           6
                       7            = .*
                                                                                                        $       "

<removed-date>
                            5 76885 76
                   7        C .* 3
                            $ $ -
                            5 6885 6
                   7           +"& (% #"*             C 5       6        ( "%( 2.         C8
                            $ $ -
                            5 6885 6
                   7        $33 , >?9              (.2 !"<9             ;7     <" 1"2.%" %*.!"                    $    5,               7 6
<removed-apn>
              2"       "*     2" ?            24     2" ?           ?        , 2     2" , 2 ?         ?           2"    24         *
              2"       "4 $ "           ( , 2        "* 9*          9*       )"!      * 9*         2" )"!         24        ( 92
                                                                                                              7
              2        2     92    92         *%      (     2       , 2 , 2          "*    24 92          *       "4
                             7
                            7;
                            $3
                   7        $.*#     " *"%*.&4#! 1"                      & *"(% * !.*          (     &*./" 1 *4(
                            $ $ -
                            5 6885 ;6
                   7        9*! 0 # 2 #./'                  !.*          2         "2%"* ("B4" #" 5/.& 0 "&                            "2%"*
                            ( !"68
                            5 6885 6
                   7          .*
                            5 6885 6
                   7        C .* 3
                            5 6885 6
                   7          .*
                            5 6885        6
                   7        = .*
                                                                                      $    "   ;

<removed-date>
                             5 76885 76
                    7        C .* 3
                             $ $ -
                             5 6885 6
                    7           +"* (% #"*              C 5        6       ( "%( 2.             C8
                             $ $ -
                             5 68857;6
                    7        $33 , >?9 <9              ;7          .0          $7 5                  68
<removed-apn>
               2"       "*        2" ?            24   2" ?            ?        , 2     2" , 2 ?                ?            2"   24    *
               2"       "4 $ "            (        ( $*.       * 9*              2     92       92        92        24       2"   "4   24
                                                                                                                         7
              $*.       2          (     "* $ "        *%      (
                              7
                             7
                             $3
                    7        $.*#        " *"%*.&4#! 1"                    & *"(% * !.*                   (    &*./" 1 *4(
                             $ $ -
                             5 6885 ;6
                    7        9*! 0 # 2 #./'                   !.*          2          "2%"* ("B4" #" 5/.& 0 "&                              "2%"*
                             ( !"68
                             5 6885 6
                    7          .*
                             5 6885 6
                    7        C .* 3
                             5 6885 6
                    7          .*
                             5 6885           6
                    7        = .*
                             5 76885 76
                    7        C .* 3
                                                                                            $    " 7

<removed-date>
                             $ $ -
                             5 6885 6
                    7           +"& (% #"*              C 5        6       ( "%( 2.               C8
                             $ $ -
                             5 68857 6
                    7        $33 , >?9 <9              ;7          .0          $        5          ;68
<removed-apn>
               2"       "*        2" ?        24       2" ?            ?           , 2       2" , 2 ?                ?      2"    24    *
               2"       "4 $ "            (       (    "4 9*           = (          2       9(%    "*          "*        "* $*.    *   2"
                                                                                                                            7
              9*         (        "*     "*   2         (
                              7
                             ;
                             $3
                    7        $.*#        " *"%*.&4#! 1"                    & *"(% * !.*                    (        &*./" 1 *4(
                             $ $ -
                             5 6885;6
                    7         $ 5A                6 .0 $33 , >?9 <9                          ;7        8
              $ "       "4        "4 , 2      2       $ "      (           ( $ "
                             ;
                             $3
                    7        $.*#        " *"%*.&4#! 1"                    & *"(% * !.*                    (        &*./" 1 *4(
                             $ $ -
                             5 6885;6
                    7         $ 5A                6 .0 $33 , )-                         <99 ;      778
              $ "       "4        "4 , 2      2       $ "      (           (        "4
                               ;
                             ;
                             $3
                    7        $.*#        " *"%*.&4#! 1"                    & *"(% * !.* (                           &*./" 1 *4(
                                                                                   $ " 7

<removed-date>
                             $ $ -
                             5 6885;6
                    7         $ 5A             6 .0 $33 ,          .*!        9/"* #        (!*             ,3    77 <99-         8
                              ;
              $ "       "4 , 2 , 2         2     $ "         (     (     "4
<removed-apn>
                             ;
                             $3
                    7        $.*#     " *"%*.&4#! 1"               & *"(% * !.*             (        &*./" 1 *4(
                             $ $ -
                             5 6885;6
                    7         $ 5A             6 .0 $33 ,                (.2 !"         ,        <@"2       4/<     7       8
              $ "       "4        "4 92    2     92      2       = (     "4
                             ;
                             $3
                    7        $.*#     " *"%*.&4#! 1"               & *"(% * !.*             (        &*./" 1 *4(
                             $ $ -
                             5 6885;6
                    7        A*./ $ 5                        6 .0 $33 ,>?9 <9 ;7     )-   <99 ;                             77
                             ,3 77 <99-                       &     (.2 !"   ,   <@"2 4/<   7                               8
                (       "4 $ " 92          2"     "4     "4 92           2"
                             $3
                    7        $.*#     " *"%*.&4#! 1"               & *"(% * !.*             (        &*./" 1 *4(
                             $ $ -
                             5 6885 6
                    7        A*./ $ 5                   7 6 .0 $33 , >?9 <9                     ;7     7     & )-       <99 ;    7 8
               "4 92          92      "4   2"         ( $ " , 2          2" 9*         "4 92               ( 9(     (
                                                                                 $     " 7

<removed-date>
                             7
                            $3
                    7       $.*#     " *"%*.&4#! 1"               & *"(% * !.*        (           &*./" 1 *4(
                            $ $ -
                            5 6885        6
                    7        $ 5                    7 6 .0 $33 ,     .*!     9/"* #               ,3    77 <99-                  ;8
<removed-apn>
                             7
               "4 92         92      "4         *      ( $ " , 2     2" 9*     $ " 92                   ( 9(             (
                            $3
                    7       $.*#     " *"%*.&4#! 1"               & *"(% * !.*        (           &*./" 1 *4(
                            $ $ -
                            5 6885        6
                    7        $ 5A         ;         776 .0 $33 ,           (.2 !"         ,            <@"2        4/<       7        8
              $ " 92         92    $ " , 2             ( $ " 92      2" 9*     92             *         ( 9(             (
                            $3
                    7       $.*#     " *"%*.&4#! 1"               & *"(% * !.*        (           &*./" 1 *4(
                            $ $ -
                            5 6885        6
                    7        $ 5C         ; C        76 .0 $33 , >?9         (.2 !"<9              ;7    78
                (       2    9*      "4         * 9*      *% 9*      "* $*. , 2           2" , 2              24         (
                            $3
                    7       $.*#     " *"%*.&4#! 1"               & *"(% * !.*        (           &*./" 1 *4(
                            $ $ -
                            5 6885        6
                    7        $ 5C         ; C        76 .0 $33 , )-           (.2 !"<99 ;                7 8
                                                                             $ " 77

<removed-date>
                   (       2    9*      2"           * 9*      *% 9*          "* $*. , 2          2"     2"    24         (
                               $3
                       7       $.*#     " *"%*.&4#! 1"                    & *"(% * !.*        (        &*./" 1 *4(
<removed-apn>
                               $ $ -
                               5 6885        6
                       7        $ 5C         ; C       76 .0        $33 ,      .*!     9/"* #           ,3    77 <99-               ;8
                   (       2    9*      "4           * 9*      *% 9*          "* $*. , 2          2"     2"    24         (
                               $3
                       7       $.*#     " *"%*.&4#! 1"                    & *"(% * !.*        (        &*./" 1 *4(
                               $ $ -
                               5 6885        6
                       7        $ 53             C      6 .0 3$33 ,                  (.2 !"        ,         <@"2    4/<        7        8
              9*           2    9*      2" = ( 9*              *%         (   "* $*.     2" , 2          2"    24         (
                                ;
                               $3
                       7       $.*#     " *"%*.&4#! 1"                    & *"(% * !.*        (        &*./" 1 *4(
                               $ $ -
                               5 6885 6
                       7       A*./ ) %*.!"   5 ;     76 .0 $33 , >?9 <9                                ;7          )-        <99 ;      7
                                 & ,3 77 <99-     7 8
                                ;
                   ( 9(         9(%     "*           * 92   $*.       2        ( , 2     "4       "4 92       $ "        "*
                               $3
                       7       $.*#     " *"%*.&4#! 1"                    & *"(% * !.* (               &*./" 1 *4(
                                                                                  $ " 7

<removed-date>
                             $ $ -
                             5 6885 6
                    7        ) %*.!"  5                   6 .0 $33 ,                     (.2 !"              ,        <@"2          4/<     7       8
                   ( = ( 9(% $*.               * 92       92        2          (    "4 , 2             "4 92          $ "       "*
<removed-apn>
                             $3
                    7        $.*#     " *"%*.&4#! 1"                    & *"(% * !.*               (        &*./" 1 *4(
                             $ $ -
                             5 6885 6
                    7        A*./ ) %*.!"   5977                        6 .0 $33 , >?9 <9                        ;7        <    )-        <99 ;     7
                               & ,3 77 <99-    7 8
              92        "4        ( , 2       "* 9*        2       9*      "4       "4     2           "4        "4 = (         "4
                             $3
                    7        $.*#     " *"%*.&4#! 1"                    & *"(% * !.*               (        &*./" 1 *4(
                             $ $ -
                             5 6885       6
                    7        $33 ,            (.2 !"           ,        <@"2       4/<         7            <) %*.!"                597         6
              92        "4        ( , 2       "* 9*        2       9*      "4       "4     2           "4        "4 = (         2"
                              7
                             $3
                    7        $.*#     " *"%*.&4#! 1"                    & *"(% * !.*               (        &*./" 1 *4(
                             $ $ -
                             5 6885 6
                    7        ) %*.!"  5A              ,    6 .0 $33 , >?9                      (.2 !"<9               ;7        8
                              7
              $ "       2         * )"!        * $ " , 2 = ( $ "                    24     "*           * 9(          9*       , 2
                                                                                     $     " 7

<removed-date>
                            $3
                    7       $.*#   " *"%*.&4#! 1"      & *"(% * !.*       (    &*./" 1 *4(
                            $ $ -
                            5 6885 6
                    7       ) %*.!"  5A     ,   6 .0 $33 , )-        <99 ;      7 8
<removed-apn>
              $ "       2      * )"!    * $ "      * = ( $ "   2     "*       * 9(        9*     , 2
                            $3
                    7       $.*#   " *"%*.&4#! 1"      & *"(% * !.*       (    &*./" 1 *4(
                            $ $ -
                            5 6885 6
                    7       ) %*.!"  5A     ,   6 .0 $33 , ,3       77 <99-          7 8
              $ "       2      * )"!    * $ " 92     = ( $ "   2     "*       * 9(             ( , 2
                            $3
                    7       $.*#   " *"%*.&4#! 1"      & *"(% * !.*       (    &*./" 1 *4(
                            $ $ -
                            5 6885 6
                    7       ) %*.!"  5A     ,   6 .0 $33 ,          (.2 !"       ,         <@"2        4/<    7   8
              $ "       2      * )"!    *   * , 2 = ( $ "      24    "*       * 9(        9*     , 2
                            $3
                    7       $.*#   " *"%*.&4#! 1"      & *"(% * !.*       (    &*./" 1 *4(
                            $ $ -
                            5 6885 6
                    7       A*./ ) %*.!"    5C;7 C      6 .0 $33 , >?9 <9            ;7            & ,3      77
                                                               $ " 7

<removed-date>
                              <99-       7 8
                   ( $ "           2"    *     "* 9*            ( 9*       "4      (    "4       "4     2     9*         (
                              $3
                    7         $.*#      " *"%*.&4#! 1"                 & *"(% * !.*          (        &*./" 1 *4(
<removed-apn>
                              $ $ -
                              5 6885 6
                    7         ) %*.!"  53;7 C                   6 .0 $33 , )-            <99 ;          7 8
              9*        $ "        2"    *     "* 9*            ( 9*       "4      (    "4       "4     2     9*         (
                               ;
                              $3
                    7         $.*#      " *"%*.&4#! 1"                 & *"(% * !.*          (        &*./" 1 *4(
                              $ $ -
                              5 6885 6
                    7         ) %*.!"  5C;             3        6 .0 $33 ,               ,        <@"2        4/<        7   8
                               ;
                   ( $ " , 2             *     "* 9*            ( 9*       "4      (     (       "4     2     9*    9*
                              $3
                    7         $.*#      " *"%*.&4#! 1"                 & *"(% * !.*          (        &*./" 1 *4(
                              $ $ -
                              5 6885 6
                    7          4#2".# %( & %*.!"                  5             6 .0 $33 , >?9                 (.2 !"<9      ;7   8
               2        $*.        2     (      ( 9(       9*          (    ( 9(       $*.       24         ( $*. = ( $ "
              $*.        "4
                                                                                   $    " 7

<removed-date>
                              $3
                    7         $.*#      " *"%*.&4#! 1"              & *"(% * !.*            (        &*./" 1 *4(
                              $ $ -
                              5 6885 6
                    7          4#2".# %( & %*.!"               5             6 .0 $33 , )-               <99 ;     7 8
<removed-apn>
               2        $*.        2   9*           ( 9(   (        (      ( 9(       $*.       24      ( $*. = ( $ "
              $*.        "4
                              $3
                    7         $.*#      " *"%*.&4#! 1"              & *"(% * !.*            (        &*./" 1 *4(
                              $ $ -
                              5 6885 6
                    7          4#2".# %( & %*.!"               5             6 .0 $33 , ,3              77   (.2 !"<99-   7 8
               2        $*.        2        (       ( 9(   (        (      ( 9(       $*.       24      ( $*. = ( $ "
              $*.        "4
                               7
                              $3
                    7         $.*#      " *"%*.&4#! 1"              & *"(% * !.*            (        &*./" 1 *4(
                              $ $ -
                              5 6885 6
                    7          4#2".# %( & %*.!"               5$            6 .0 $33 ,                 (.2 !"
                                ,   <@"2 4/<     7                  8
                               7
              $*. 9*               2    2       2     92   (        ( 9*          ( $*.         24      ( $*. = ( $ "
              $*.        "4
                                                                                  $    " 7

<removed-date>
                          ;
                          $3
                    7     $.*#   " *"%*.&4#! 1"             & *"(% * !.*      (    &*./" 1 *4(
                          $ $ -
                          5 6885;6
                    7     A*./ 4#2".# %( & %*.!"  5, 7                     6 .0 $33 , >?9 <9     ;7
                          )-   <99 ; 7    & ,3 77 <99-                     7 8
<removed-apn>
              , 2 9*       = ( = ( $ "       * $*.         "*   24
                          ;
                          $3
                    7     $.*#   " *"%*.&4#! 1"             & *"(% * !.*      (    &*./" 1 *4(
                          $ $ -
                          5 6885;6
                    7      4#2".# %( & %*.!"           5,            6 .0 $33 ,
                            ,   <@"2 4/<     7
              , 2 9*       = ( = (    "4     *   2          *   24
                           ;
                          $3
                    7     $.*#   " *"%*.&4#! 1"             & *"(% * !.*      (    &*./" 1 *4(
                          $ $ -
                          5 6885 ;6
                    7      4#2".# %( & %*.!"           5         9    76.0 $33 , >?9 <9     ;7    8
               "*       "4 $*.    *   2    = (       * , 2 9*         "4   2" 9*    92    * 92    "*
              $*.       "* 92
                           ;
                          $3
                    7     $.*#   " *"%*.&4#! 1"             & *"(% * !.*      (    &*./" 1 *4(
                                                                       $   " 7;

<removed-date>
                          $ $ -
                          5 6885 ;6
                    7      4#2".# %( & %*.!"         5        9   76 .0 $33 , )-       <99 ;     7 8
               "*       "4 $*.       * = ( = (   * , 2 9*         "4   2" 9*    , 2    * 92     $*.
              $*.       "* 92
<removed-apn>
                           ;
                          $3
                    7     $.*#      " *"%*.&4#! 1"        & *"(% * !.*     (   &*./" 1 *4(
                          $ $ -
                          5 6885 ;6
                    7      4#2".# %( & %*.!"         5        9   76 .0 $33 , ,3      77
                           (.2 !"<99-   7 8
               "*       "4 $*.       * = ( = (   * , 2 9*         "4   2" 9*    , 2    * 92      "*
              $*.       "* 92
                           ;
                           ;
                          $3
                    7     $.*#      " *"%*.&4#! 1"        & *"(% * !.*     (   &*./" 1 *4(
                          $ $ -
                          5 6885 ;6
                    7      4#2".# %( & %*.!"         5)            6 .0 $33 ,         (.2 !"
                            ,   <@"2 4/<     7            8
                           ;
              )"!       "4 $*. , 2 92      = (   * , 2 9*         "4   2" 9*    , 2    *   "*     *
               "* 92           "*
                          $3
                                                                   $   "

<removed-date>
                  7       $.*#     " *"%*.&4#! 1"                & *"(% * !.*         (     &*./" 1 *4(
                          $ $ -
                          5 688576
                  7       2 +"& (% #"*
                          $ $ -
                          5 6885      6
                  7        $ 5A               6 .0 $33 , )-          <99 ;      778
<removed-apn>
                          5 6885 6
                  7         .*
                          5 6885 6
                  7         .* ,
                          5 6885          6
                  7       C .* 3
                          5    6885       6
                  7           .*
              (       (        ( $ " ?          ?      , 2   2     $ " ?           ( ?
                          $3
                  7       $.*#     " *"%*.&4#! 1"                & *"(% * !.*         (     &*./" 1 *4(
                          $ $ -
                          5 688576
                  7          +"& (% #"*8
                          $ $ -
                          5 6885      6
                  7        $ 5                      6 .0 $33 , )-          <99 ;      778
                          5 6885 6
                  7         .*
                          5 6885 6
                                                                            $   "

<removed-date>
                  7       9 .*
                          5;6885;6
                  7         .*
                          5    6885        6
                  7           .*
<removed-apn>
                          5    6885        6
                  7           .*
              (       (        (      ( ?       $ " ?    2" ?   ?        92   ?
                          $3
                  7       $.*#     " *"%*.&4#! 1"         & *"(% * !.*        (    &*./" 1 *4(
                          $ $ -
                          5 688576
                  7          +"& (% #"*8
                          $ $ -
                          5 6885       6
                  7        $ 5                 7 6 .0 $33 , >?9 <9       ;7   78
                          5 6885 6
                  7         .*
                          5 6885 6
                  7         .*
                          5 6885 6
                  7         .*
                          5 76885 76
                  7       3 .* C
                          5    6885        6
                  7           .*
                                                                     $    "

<removed-date>
                               5 6885            6
                       7       C .* 3
                   (       (            ( ?      92   92   ?   ?       ( $ " , 2       2" ?   ?   92   ?
              9(           (
<removed-apn>
                                   7
                               $3
                       7       $.*#           " *"%*.&4#! 1"       & *"(% * !.*    (     &*./" 1 *4(
                               $ $ -
                               5 688576
                       7          +"& (% #"*8
                               $ $ -
                               5 6885           6
                       7        $ 5C            ; C   76 .0 $33 , )-      <99 ;    7 8
                               5 6885 6
                       7       C .* 3
                               5 6885 6
                       7       3 .* C
                               5 6885 6
                       7         .*
                               5;6885;6
                       7       3 .* C
                               5 6885            6
                       7       3 .* C
                               5        6885     6
                       7               .*
                                                                           $   "   7

<removed-date>
                             5        6885     6
                    7                .*
                             5 6885            6
                    7        C .* 3
                                 7
                (        (            ( ?          2   ?     ?        * ?       *% ?           "* $*. , 2 ?      ?
<removed-apn>
               24 ?
                             $3
                    7        $.*#           " *"%*.&4#! 1"            & *"(% * !.*         (     &*./" 1 *4(
                             $ $ -
                             5 688576
                    7           +"& (% #"*8
                             $ $ -
                             5 6885 6
                    7         . (" (4( ) %*.!"    5 ;                       76 0*./ $33 , >?9 <9 ;7
                             )-   <99 ; 7      & .! "*                         .*! 9/"* #     " .! %"(8
                             5 6885 6
                    7          .* = .*
                             5        6885 6
                    7                .* A .*
                             5        6885     6
                    7                .*
                (        (            (      ( ?       9(%       "*   * 92     $*. ?            ( , 2 ?       "4 92
              $ "       "*
                                                                                 $     "

<removed-date>
                             $3
                    7        $.*#   " *"%*.&4#! 1"            & *"(% * !.*          (        &*./" 1 *4(
                             $ $ -
                             5 688576
                    7        2 +"& (% #"*8
                             $ $ -
                             5 6885 6
                    7         . (" (4( ) %*.!"    5977               6 0*./ $33 , >?9 <9 ;7
<removed-apn>
                             )-   <99 ; 7      & .! "*                .*! 9/"* #     " .! %"(8
                (        (      ( 92        "4      ( , 2    "* 9*     2       9*       "4     "4   2   "4   "4
              = (       "4
                             $3
                    7        $.*#   " *"%*.&4#! 1"            & *"(% * !.*          (        &*./" 1 *4(
                             $ $ -
                             5 688576
                    7           +"& (% #"*8
                             $ $ -
                             5 6885 6
                    7         . (" (4( ) %*.!"    5A   ,             6 .0 $33 , >?9 <9 ;7                     &
                             )-   <99 ; 7      & .! "*                .*! 9/"* #     " .! %"(8
                             5;6885;6
                    7        A .*
                             5 6885 6
                    7        , .* 9 .*           .* A .* )
                             5 6885     6
                    7        A .*
                             5 76885 76
                    7          .*   .*
                                                                           $    "

<removed-date>
                                   5 6885      6
                       7           3 .* C
                   (           (      ( $ "        2    * )"!    * ?    ?       = ( ?          ?       "*    * 9(
              ?            , 2
<removed-apn>
                                   $3
                       7           $.*#     " *"%*.&4#! 1"       & *"(% * !.*        (        &*./" 1 *4(
                                   $ $ -
                                   5 688576
                       7              +"& (% #"*8
                                   $ $ -
                                   5 6885 6
                       7            . (" (4( ) %*.!"   5C;7 C           6 0*./ >?9 (.2 !"<9                      ;7       )-
                                   (!*   <99 ; 7     & .! "*            .! "* 9 " .! %"(8
                                   5 6885 6
                       7           C .* 3
                                   5 6885      6
                       7           C .* 3
                   (           (      ( ?      $ "     2"   *   "* 9*       ( 9*         "4        (   "4   "4        2
              9*           ?
                                   $3
                       7           $.*#     " *"%*.&4#! 1"       & *"(% * !.*        (        &*./" 1 *4(
                                   $ $ -
                                   5 688576
                       7              +"& (% #"*8
                                                                            $    "

<removed-date>
                            $ $ -
                            5 6885 6
                    7        4#2".# %( & %*.!"          5          6 .0 $33 , )- <9A                 7           &
                             4#2".# %( & %*.!"          5$         6 .0 " < ; ; ; 8
                            5 6885 6
                    7         .* $
                            5 6885 6
<removed-apn>
                    7       3 .*
                            5 6885 6
                    7       C .*
                            5;6885;6
                    7         .* 9
                            5 76885 76
                    7         .* C
                (       (        ( ?      $*.   2   ?   ?      ?     (      (       ( ?   $*.   24           (
              $*. = ( $ " $*.              "4
                             ;
                            $3
                    7       $.*#       " *"%*.&4#! 1"        & *"(% * !.*       (    &*./" 1 *4(
                            $ $ -
                            5 688576
                    7          +"& (% #"*8
                            $ $ -
                            5 6885 6
                    7        4#2".# %( & %*.!"           5, 7       6 .0 $33 , 4*.%"<                    7           &
                             4#2".# %( & %*.!"          5,         6 .0 " < ; ; ; 8
                            5 6885 6
                    7       A .*
                                                                     $   "

<removed-date>
                          5 6885            6
                  7       A .*
                          5        6885     6
                  7               .*
                              ;
              (       (            ( , 2 9*        = ( = ( ?       * ?       ?           24
<removed-apn>
                          ;
                          $3
                  7       $.*#           " *"%*.&4#! 1"        & *"(% * !.*          (        &*./" 1 *4(
                          $ $ -
                          5 688576
                  7          +"& (% #"*8
                          $ $ -
                          5 6885 6
                  7        4#2".# %( & %*.!"               5       9     76 .0 $33 , )- <9A                   7    &
                           4#2".# %( & %*.!"               5       9      6 .0 " < ; ; ; 8
                          5 6885 6
                  7         .*
                          5 6885 6
                  7         .* ,
                          5 6885            6
                  7       9 .*
                          5 ;6885 ;6
                  7       $ .*
                          5        6885     6
                  7               .* 9
                          ;
              (       (            ( ?          "4 $*. ?   = ( = (       * , 2 9*               "4   2" 9*   , 2
                                                                         $       "

<removed-date>
                * ?                 ?        $*. ?       92
                                ;
                                $3
                    7           $.*#          " *"%*.&4#! 1"                    & *"(% * !.*           (        &*./" 1 *4(
                                $ $ -
                                5 6885 6
<removed-apn>
                    7            4#2".# %( & %*.!"                      5$        C       6 .0 $33 , )-   <99 ;                7            &
                                 4#2".# %( & %*.!"                      5$        C       6 .0 $33 , >?9 <9 ;7                     8
                                ;
              $*. 9(                9(       9(      2        (    2        2         (      (     (
                                ;
                                $3
                    7           $.*#          " *"%*.&4#! 1"                    & *"(% * !.*           (        &*./" 1 *4(
                                $ $ -
                                5 6885             6
                    7            4#2".#            %( & %*.!"           5                  6 .0 $33 , )-   <99 ; 7
                                 4#2".#            %( & %*.!"           5                  6 .0 $33 , >?9 <9 ;7                             &
                                 4#2".#            %( & %*.!"           5                  6 .0 $33 , ,3 77 <99-                           7 8
                                ;
               24           ( $*. = ( $ " $*.                      "4 92              *     24 9(% 9(% , 2 9*                = ( = (
              $ "           *
                                ;7
                                $3
                    7           $.*#          " *"%*.&4#! 1"                    & *"(% * !.*           (        &*./" 1 *4(
                                $ $ -
                                5 6885 6
                    7           ) %*.!"  5)                       6 .0 $33 , )-                  <99 ;          7 8
                                ;7
              )"!       2               "*    "*     "4 9(% 9(% 9*                    ( = ( 9(%            "*         * 92   $*.       2
                ( , 2                   "4    "4 92      $ "       "*       2"        *      *
                                                                                             $    "    ;

<removed-date>
                                ;
                                $3
                    7           $.*#        " *"%*.&4#! 1"               & *"(% * !.*               (        &*./" 1 *4(
                                $ $ -
                                5 6885 6
                    7            4#2".# %( & %*.!"                  5C                 6 .0 $33 , )-               <99 ;        7 8
<removed-apn>
                                ;
                ( $*. = ( $ " $*.                      "4 92             *        24 9(% 9(% , 2 9*                = ( = ( $ "
                * $*.                "*     24
                                ;
                                $3
                    7           $.*#        " *"%*.&4#! 1"               & *"(% * !.*               (        &*./" 1 *4(
                                $ $ -
                                5 6885 6
                    7            4#2".# %( & %*.!"                  5 7                6 .0 $33 , )-               <99 ;        7 8
                                ;
               2" 92                 2      2     "*   2       "* 9*             , 2        (   2   $*.        2   9*          ( 9(
                (           (            ( 9(    $*.   24       ( $*. = ( $ " $*.                       "4 92           *     24 9(%
                                                                                                                   7
              9(% , 2 9*                   = ( = ( $ "          * $*.             "*    24
                      7
                                ;
                                 ;
                                $3
                    7           $.*#        " *"%*.&4#! 1"               & *"(% * !.*               (        &*./" 1 *4(
                                $ $ -
                                5 6885 ;6
                    7            4#2".# %( & %*.!"                  5        7         6 .0 $33 , )-               <        <99 ;     7 8
                                ;
                (       2           )"!     "4    2        (   2"       2" 92           2       2       "*     2       "* 9*        , 2
                                                                                            $   "

<removed-date>
                   (       2           $*.      2     9*         ( 9(           (        (     ( 9(       $*.       24           ( $*. = (
                                                                                                                         7
              $ " $*.                      "4 92           *    24 9(% 9(% , 2 9*                  = ( = ( $ "                   * $*.          "*
                                       7
               24
<removed-apn>
                                   ;
                                    ;
                                   $3
                       7           $.*#         " *"%*.&4#! 1"                  & *"(% * !.*              (       &*./" 1 *4(
                                   $ $ -
                                   5 6885 ;6
                       7            4#2".# %( & %*.!"                      5C 7              6 .0 $33 , )-               <99 ;                7 8
                                   ;
                   (       2           9(%      2      2       $*. , 2 9(            2        "4      (       2    )"!       "4       2             (
               2"          2" 92                2      2        "*   2      "* 9*            , 2      (       2    $*.       2       9*             (
                                                                                                                         7
              9(               (            (       ( 9(       $*.   24         ( $*. = ( $ " $*.                   "4 92                 *     24
                                       7
              9(% 9(% , 2 9*                          = ( = ( $ "               * $*.         "*    24
                                   ;
                                   $3
                       7           $.*#         " *"%*.&4#! 1"                  & *"(% * !.*              (       &*./" 1 *4(
                                   $ $ -
                                   5 6885 6
                       7            4#2".# %( & %*.!"                      5,            9    76 .0 $33 , )-                     <    <99 ;             7 8
                                   ;
              , 2 9*                       "4   2" 9*          , 2       * 92       $*. $*.         "* 92
                                   ;;
                                   7
                                                                                               $    "

<removed-date>
                                 $3
                       7         $.*#       " *"%*.&4#! 1"                    & *"(% * !.*           (        &*./" 1 *4(
                                 $ $ -
                                 5 68857 6
                       7          4#2".# %( & %*.!"                      5 ;       9    76 .0 $33 , )-               <99 ;    7 8
                                 ;;
                   (        2"        "4    "* 9(%        "*     2       9*        2"    "*      *           * , 2   24 $ "    "*
<removed-apn>
               "4 $*.                  * = ( = (              * , 2 9*             "4    2" 9*       , 2         * 92   $*. $*.
                                                                                                                   7
               "* 92
                                 $3
                       7         $.*#       " *"%*.&4#! 1"                    & *"(% * !.*           (        &*./" 1 *4(
                                 $ $ -
                                 5 6885 6
                       7          4#2".# %( & %*.!"                      5         9    76 .0 $33 , )-               <99 ;    7 8
               2                * 92       $ " 9(         2      2       92        2      *      (       2"     "4   "* 9(%    "*
               2           9*         2"    "*       *        * , 2          24 $ "      "*   "4 $*.             * = ( = (       *
                                                                                                                   7
              , 2 9*                  "4    2" 9*        , 2         * 92         $*. $*.     "* 92
                                  7
                                 $3
                       7         $.*#       " *"%*.&4#! 1"                    & *"(% * !.*           (        &*./" 1 *4(
                                 $ $ -
                                 5 6885 6
                       7          4#2".# %( & %*.!"                      5$ ; 9         76 .0 $33 , )-               <99 ;    7 8
              $*.           "*        24 9*      2        "4         (       "4    "*    "*   2"         2       * 92   $ " 9(
                                                                                          $   "

<removed-date>
               2      2     92      2     *    (   2"   "4   "* 9(%   "*   2   9*       2"   "*      *
                                                                                    7
                   * , 2        24 $ "   "*   "4 $*.     * = ( = (     * , 2 9*         "4   2" 9*
                            7
              , 2         * 92     $*. $*.    "* 92
<removed-apn>
                                                                  $   "    7

