ABSTRACT
A packaged food product capable of being displayed on edge comprising:
         a tray comprising a flange having a first end and a second end, at least one bottom cavity, at least
one top cavity thereabove, and at least one middle cavity between the top and bottom cavities, each
cavity having one or more side walls and a rear wall;
         a lid sealed to the flange;
         a food product disposed within each cavity, wherein the food products comprise at least one
high-protein food item;
         a back card that extends along and beyond the rear wall of the bottom cavity, the back card
having a first end and a second end, and oriented so that so that the packaged food product is capable of
being displayed on edge with the first end of the flange in an elevated position above the second end of
the flange, and with the first end of the back card in an elevated position above the second end of the
back card, and with the second end of the flange and the second end of the back card stably supporting
the packaged food product on a horizontal surface, the back card contacting the bottom cavity and the
top cavity;
         wherein the packaged food product can be held in one hand, having a height of 6 in. to 7 in., a
maximum width of 2 to 5 in., a depth of about 1 in. to 4 in., and a recessed midsection, and a generally
dumbbell-shaped front surface that has information prominently displayed thereon referring to protein
content;
         the middle cavity being narrower and than the top and bottom cavities, having a width less than
that of the top and bottom cavities.

                          PACKAGED FOOD PRODUCT
               CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
[0001]      The present application is a divisional application from Australian patent application
number 2013370677, which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No.
61/745,915, filed on Dec. 26, 2012, entitled "Packaged Food Product," the entirety of which are fully
incorporated herein by reference.
                            FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0002]      This application relates generally to food packaging, and more particularly to a
packaged food product that may be displayed in an upright position.
                                   BACKGROUND
[0003]      Packaged food products include meal kits that contain various ready-to-eat
("RTE") food items to provide an essentially complete meal, as well as snack kits that
contain fewer components and/or smaller quantities than meal kits. Such kits may include,
for example, farinaceous items such as crackers and breads; proteinaceous items such as
meats, nuts and cheeses; sauces; dips; dessert; beverages such as juice drinks; and/or other
food and beverage items.
[0004]      Upstanding packaged food products that comprise a tray with one or more cavities
and a removable lid sometimes include a back card disposed generally parallel to the front
wall to facilitate display of the package on a shelf in an upright position. Packaged food
products also sometimes include a hanging feature such as a movable tab as shown, e.g., in
U.S. Patent No. 7,128,222. Such packages may be made of various materials as disclosed in
U.S. Patent No. 5,657,874, the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein.
[0005]      Food items may be disposed in the cavities with or without wrappers or other
packaging materials within the cavities. Some food items may be individually pre-packaged
in film wrap, pouches or containers having removable lids. Beverages may be contained in a
                                             1

cup with a removable flexible lid secured in place by a peel seal; a flexible pouch, such as a
tetrahedral pouch; a metal can; a plastic bottle with a screw top; or another type of container.
To increase shelf life and stability, the cavities may be gas flushed to reduce or eliminate
oxygen, and internal containers within the cavities may be gas flushed or vacuum sealed to
reduce or eliminate oxygen.
[0006]        In the past, some upstanding packaged food products of the types described above
have proven to be somewhat unstable, or susceptible to tipping in response to minor
disturbances. There remains a need for improvements in providing stability for such
packages. Also, with a wide variety of packaged food products available at grocery stores,
there is a continuing need for new and innovative impactful packaging that will enable a
product to stand out in a positive way. In addition, there is a continuing need for
improvements in handleability of food packaging.
 [0006a] The discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles and the like is
 included in this specification solely for the purpose of providing a context for the present
 invention. It is not suggested or represented that any or all of these matters formed part of
 the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the field relevant to the present
 invention as it existed before the priority date of each claim of this application.
 [0006b] Where the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or "comprising" are used in
 this specification (including the claims) they are to be interpreted as specifying the presence
 of the stated features, integers, steps or components, but not precluding the presence of one
 or more other features, integers, steps or components, or group thereof.
                                      SUMMARY
[0007]        The packaged food product described below may incorporate an angled back card
to improve stability by providing an enlarged footprint when the package is standing upright,
i.e., vertically oriented. The angled back card can provide a wider base of support between
the front of the product and the back card to improve the ability of the package to be self
                                            2

supporting in an upright position, i.e., to stand up reliably on a shelf without leaning on other
structures for external support.
[0008]       The packaged food product may be generally dumbbell-shaped as viewed from
the front and/or from other angles, and may comprise a center portion that is narrower and/or
shallower than adjacent end portions. This may facilitate handling of the product by the
consumer. That is, the recessed midsection of the tray design can help to provide an
intuitive, secure and comfortable way of holding the product. Providing a reduced area to
hold the package can result in a slimmer/leaner feel. This shape also may help to provide the
product with an impactful appearance and theme at retail when the product is viewed from
the front and/or from other angles. The product may include high-protein food items,
consistent with the theme established by the shape. For example, in some embodiments,
diced meat, nuts, and diced cheese components may be placed in bottom, middle and top
compartments, respectively. The package may include prominently-displayed information
about the protein content of the food items.
 [0008a]     In one aspect, the present invention provides a packaged food product capable of
 being displayed on edge comprising: a tray comprising a flange having a first end and a
 second end, at least one bottom cavity, at least one top cavity thereabove, and at least one
 middle cavity between the top and bottom cavities, each cavity having one or more side
 walls and a rear wall; a lid sealed to the flange; a food product disposed within each cavity,
 wherein the food products comprise at least one high-protein food item; a back card that
 extends along and beyond the rear wall of the bottom cavity, the back card having a first end
 and a second end, and oriented so that so that the packaged food product is capable of being
 displayed on edge with the first end of the flange in an elevated position above the second
 end of the flange, and with the first end of the back card in an elevated position above the
 second end of the back card, and with the second end of the flange and the second end of the
 back card stably supporting the packaged food product on a horizontal surface, the back card
 contacting the bottom cavity and the top cavity; wherein the packaged food product can be
 held in one hand, having a height of 6 in. to 7 in., a maximum width of 2 to 5 in., a depth of
 about 1 in. to 4 in., and a recessed midsection, and a generally dumbbell-shaped front
                                            3

surface that has information prominently displayed thereon referring to protein content; the
middle cavity being narrower and than the top and bottom cavities, having a width less than
that of the top and bottom cavities.
[0008b]     In another aspect, the present invention provides a method of providing a
packaged food product which has a generally dumbbell-shaped front surface that has protein
content information prominently displayed thereon, comprising: (a) forming a tray with a
generally dumbbell-shaped front surface, a flange and at least a top cavity, a bottom cavity,
and a middle cavity therebetween; (b) placing a respective food product in each cavity,
comprising at least one high-protein food product; (c) placing a film with prominently
displayed protein information over the tray; (d) sealing the food products in the cavities; (e)
placing a rigid back card on a rear surface in a position that will enable the packaged food
product to be stably self-supporting in an upright orientation on a generally horizontal
surface with an edge of the flange contacting the generally horizontal surface, and with the
back card extending down from the rear surface to contact the generally horizontal surface;
and (f) repeating steps (a) through (e) to form a plurality of additional packaged food
products; wherein each of the packaged food products can be held in one hand, and each has
a recessed midsection, the middle cavity being narrower than the top and bottom cavities.
[0008c]     In yet another aspect, the present invention provides a method of packaging a
food product in a high-speed commercial packaging operation and thereafter displaying the
packaged food product in a retail setting, comprising: (a) forming a tray having a generally
dumbbell-shaped front surface with a flange and top, bottom and middle cavities, each
cavity having a rear surface; (b) placing a respective high-protein food product in each
cavity; (c) placing a film with prominently-displayed protein information thereon over the
tray; (d) sealing the food products in the cavities; (e) placing a rigid back card on the rear
surface of at least the bottom cavity; (f) repeating steps (a) through (e) to form a plurality of
additional packaged food products; and (g) standing a plurality of the packaged food
products upright in a retail display such that each of the packaged food products is stably
self-supporting in an upright orientation on a generally horizontal surface with an edge of the
flange contacting the generally horizontal surface, with the top cavity above the middle and
                                           3a

 bottom cavities, and with the back card extending down from the rear surface to contact the
 generally horizontal surface; wherein each of the packaged food products can be held in one
 hand, and has a recessed midsection; wherein the at least one cavity is gas flushed to reduce
 or eliminate oxygen therein; and wherein the middle cavity is narrower and shallower than
 the upper and lower cavities.
[0009]       In some embodiments, the packaged food product may comprise three cavities or
compartments, arranged in a vertical row. The compartment(s) on which the back card rests,
the side seal widths, and the draft angle of the bottom compartment are designed to provide
good standability, product access and product view without making the compartments empty
looking.
[0010]       The invention compartments preferably are proportioned to the amount of
product. In some embodiments, the product is dimensioned to be convenient for different
sizes of hands. In some embodiments, the product is stackable with other like products, and
is suitable for display in various ways, e.g., in (1) a self-supported upright or vertical
orientation; (2) an upright orientation in which the product leans on other like products or on
a wall or other structure in a horizontal stack or array, with the back of a product at the front
of the array engaging the front of an adjacent product behind it, etc.; or (3) a flat or horizontal
configuration.
[0011]       In some embodiments, the flange may have a small return lip dimension of, e.g., 2
to 2.5 mm, and a small flange width of, e.g., 5 to 6 mm to enhance standability of the
package with or without a back card. In some embodiments the product is both standable
and peggable. Peggability may be achieved by extending the seal flange at the top of the
package and including a peg hole in the extension. Alternatively, or in addition, the back
card can be extended to the top or the side of the package to be used for pegging purpose.
[0012]       In some embodiments, the product is a single item. In other embodiments, the
product comprises a multipack.
                                          3b

WO 2014/105712                                                            PCT/US2013/076988
  10013]      Also described below are methods of making packaged food products in a high
  speed, high-efficiency connercial operation, and methods of displaying such products.
  [0014]       In some embodiments, the methods may facilitate precise placement of the back
  card by providing a surface on the lower side of a compartment, such as a top compartment.
  that will restrict the back card from moving in the direction of that compartment. More
  specifically, a notch or shelf can be built in into the bottom side of the top compartment to
  provide a guide for the back card during assembly.
  [0015]       In some embodiments, the packaged food product comprises a rigid
  thermoformed tray comprising a flange and at least one cavity, and a lid sealed to the tray. A
  food product is disposed within the at least one cavity or cavities. Each cavity has one or
  more side walls and a rear wall that is angled relative to the flange. A back card extends
  along and beyond the rear wall. The back card is oriented so that so that the packaged food
  product is capable of being displayed on edge with the bottom end of the flange and the
  bottom end of the back card stably supporting the packaged food product on a horizontal
  surface. The bottom end of the back card is spaced from the flange by a greater distance than
  the upper end of the back card to provide an enlarged footprint for the packaged food
  product. The rear wall may be oriented at an angle of, e.g., 5' to 400 or 15' to 30 relative to
  the flange. The back card may have a front surface flush against and/or affixed to the angled
  rear wall of a first cavity or compartment, and an upper end abutting a bottom wall of a
  second cavity or compartment thereabove. The bottom wall of the second compartment may
  have a stabilizing surface such as a groove or a shelf engaging a portion of the back card.
  Where a groove or notch is provided, it is desirable that it be sufficiently shallow that it does
  not prevent efficient manufacture of the tray in a high speed molding process such as a
  thermoforming or vacuum forming operation. A portion of the back card may extend upward
  beyond the upper cavity and may have an opening above the upper cavity to facilitate
  hanging the packaged food product from a peg.
                                             4

WO 2014/105712                                                            PCT/US2013/076988
  100161        The tray may comprise a first portion comprising at least one cavity and a second
  portion comprising at least one cavity, and an area of weakness therebetween to facilitate
  separation of the first portion from the second portion, Some or all of the compartments may
  be gas flushed to reduce or eliminate oxygen therein. The lid may comprise a flexible film
  having moisture-barrier and oxygen-barrier properties. The product may have a generally
  dumbbell-shaped front surface that has information prominently displayed thereon referring
  to protein content, and the food product comprises one or more proteinaceous food products
  such as cheeses, meats and nuts. The tray may comprise an tipper cavity, a lower cavity, and
  a middle cavity therebetween. The middle cavity may be narrower and shallower than the
  upper and lower cavities. In some embodiments, the mass of the food product in the upper
  compartment may be less than the mass of the food product in the lower compartment to
  enhance stability. In other embodiments, the mass of the food product in the upper
  compartment may be equal to or greater than the mass of the food product in the lower
  compartment, and the angled back card may provide sufficient stability notwithstanding the
  higher center of gravity associated with this arrangement.
  [0017]       In some embodiments, the packaged food product comprises first and second rigid
  thermoformed trays, each comprising a flange and at least one cavity, each of the cavities
  having one or more side walls and a rear wall that is angled relative to the flange, food
  products disposed within the cavities, and means for enclosing the food products within the
  cavities. One or more back cards may extend along and beyond at least one of the rear walls.
  The back card(s) may be oriented so that the lower ends of the flanges and of the back card(s)
  stably support the packaged food product on a horizontal surface, with the lower end(s) of the
  back card(s) being spaced from the flanges by a greater distance than the upper end of the
  back card(s) to provide an enlarged footprint for the packaged food product. The
  compartments may be gas flushed to reduce or eliminate oxygen therein. The means for
  enclosing the food products within the cavities may comprise a first film lid hermetically
  sealed to the flange of the first tray and a second film lid hermetically sealed to the flange of
  the second tray. Alternatively, the means for enclosing the food products within the cavities
  may comprise a single film lid having a first portion hermetically sealed to the flange of the
  first tray and a second portion hermetically sealed to flange of the second tray. In this
                                              5

WO 2014/105712                                                          PCT/US2013/076988
  arrangement, the film lid may have an area of weakness to facilitate separation of the first
  portion from the second portion.
  [0018]      The back card(s) may comprise a one or more back cards engaging only the first
  tray, and/or one or more back cards engaging only the second tray, or may comprise a single
  back card having a first portion engaging the first tray and a second portion engaging the
  second tray, with an area of weakness between the first and second portion to facilitate
  separation of the first portion from the second portion. Each back card may be affixed to the
  rear wall of a middle compartment. The rear walls and back cards may be oriented at an
  angle of 50 to 400 or 15 to 300 relative to the flanges. Each tray may also comprise an upper
  compartment or cavity that has a stabilizing surface such as a shallow groove or a shelf
  engaging an upper end of one or more of the back cards. Alternatively, a portion of one or
  more of the back cards may extend upward beyond the upper cavity and may have an
  opening above the upper cavity to facilitate hanging the packaged food product from a peg.
  [0019]      In some embodiments, the packaged food product comprises a tray comprising a
  flange and at least one compartment or cavity: a proteinaceous food product disposed within
  the compartment(s); and a generally dumbbell-shaped lid enclosing the food product within
  the compartment(s). The lid may have information prominently displayed thereon
  concerning protein content of the food product. The tray may be thermoformed, and may
  comprise an upper cavity, a lower cavity, and a middle cavity therebetween. The middle
  cavity may be narrower and/or shallower than the upper and lower cavities. A first
  proteinaceous food product may be disposed within the upper cavity. A second
  proteinaceous food product may be disposed within the middle cavity. A third proteinaceous
  food product may be disposed within the lower cavity. A back card may extend along and
  beyond at least one of the rear walls. The back card may have an upper end and a lower end,
  and may be oriented so that the lower ends of the flange and of the back card stably support
  the packaged food product on a horizontal surface, with the lower end of the back card
  extending downward and rearward of the lower compartment and being spaced from the
  flange by a greater distance than the upper end of the back card to provide an enlarged
  footprint for the packaged food product.
                                             6

WO 2014/105712                                                           PCT/US2013/076988
  [0020]      The middle cavity may have an angled rear surface oriented at an angle of 5' to
  40' or more specifically an angle of 15' to 300 relative to the flange. The back card may be
  flush with and attached to the angled rear surface. The upper cavity may have a stabilizing
  surface that comprises a shallow groove or a shelf or other structure engaging a portion of the
  back card. A portion of the back card may extend. upward or laterally beyond the tray and
  may have an opening to facilitate hanging the packaged food product from a peg. The
  cavities may be gas flushed to reduce or eliminate oxygen therein, The food products may be
  cheeses, meats, nuts, and/or other products. 'The mass of the food product in the upper
  compartment may be less than the mass of the food product in the lower compartment. The
  flange of the tray may define a plane. The upper compartment may have a greater depth than
  the lower compartment. The distance from the plane of the flange to the bottom end of the
  angled back card may equal to the depth of the upper compartment, such that in addition to
  being displayed in upright orientations, the product may be displayed in a horizontal or flat
  configuration in which it is supported by the rear surface of the top compartment and by the
  lower end of the back card.
  [0021]      In some embodiments, a method of packaging a food product in a high-speed
  commercial packaging operation may comprise:
      (a)     forming a tray with a flange and at least one cavity having an angled rear surface;
      (b)     placing a food product in the package;
      (c)     placing a film over the tray;
      (d)     sealing the food product in at least one cavity;
      (e)     placing a rigid angled back card on the angled rear surface in a position that will
  enable the packaged food products to be stably self-supporting in an upright orientation on a
  generally horizontal surface with an edge of the flange contacting- the generally horizontal
  surface, and with the back card extending down and away from the angled rear surface to
  contact the generally horizontal surface; and
      (f)     repeating steps (a) through (e) to form a plurality of additional packaged food
  products.

WO 2014/105712                                                           PCT/US2013/076988
  10022]       Steps (a) through (f) may be performed in line in a single efficient high-speed
  operation. Alternatively, one or more steps, such as forming the trays, may be performed
  off-line. Where the trays are formed off-line, they may be supplied to a filling and sealing
  line in stacks, nested together.
  [0023]       Placing the rigid angled back card on the rear surface may comprise use of an
  adhesive or other means to affix the back card to the rear surface, and may further comprise
  affixing the back card to more than one compartment. In some embodiments, the tray may
  have two lower compartments with coplanar angled rear surfaces, and an tipper compartment
  with a lower surface that has a stabilizing feature such as a notch, groove or shelf for
  receiving an upper end of the back card,
  [0024]       Additional steps, such as a gas-flush step, may be included in the process, The
  process may also include joining the packaged food products in pairs, wherein placing the
  rigid angled back card on the angled rear surface comprises placing a single rigid angled
  back card on rear surfaces of two trays.
  [0025]      After forming, filling and sealing the packages and attaching back cards, the
  resulting packaged food products may be transported to retail locations and placed on
  horizontal shelves in upright and vertical positions in which they are stable and self
  supporting. Alternatively, they may displayed in other ways, e.g., on shelves in upright
  positions in which they lean on adjacent products or other structures; on shelves in flat or
  horizontal positions; or on pegs, suspended from a top or side hang tab in an upright or
  sideways position.
  [0026]       The term "back card" as used herein refers to any panel or similar item. The back
  cards described herein may be made of any suitable material such as, by way of example and
  not by way of limitation, card stock, paperboard, polymeric materials, or laminates which
  may include one or more layers of the above materials and /or other materials such as metal
  foils and the like.
                                             8

WO 2014/105712                                                           PCT/US2013/076988
                              BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
  [00271      FIG. I is a perspective view of a packaged food product in accordance with a first
  embodiment;
  [0028]      FIG. 2 is a front elevation view thereof;
  [0029]      FIG, 3 is a rear elevation view thereof;
  [0030]      FIG. 4 is a right side elevation view thereof;
  [0031]      FIG, 5 is a left side elevation view thereof;
  [0032]      FIG 6 is a top plan view thereof;
  [0033]      FIG. 7 is a bottom plan view thereof;
  [0034]      FIG. 8 is a right side elevation view of a packaged food product in accordance
  with a second embodiment;
  [0035]      FIG. 9 is a perspective view thereof;
  [0036]      FIG. 10 is a right side elevation view of the packaged food product of FIG. 1;
  [0037]      FIG. II is a right side elevation view of a third embodiment;
  [0038]      FIG. 12 is a right side elevation view of a fourth embodiment;
  [0039]      FIG. 13 is a right side elevation view of a fifth embodiment;
  [0040]      FIG. 14 is a perspective view of a sixth embodiment;
  [0041]      FIG. 15 is a rear elevation view thereof;
  [0042]      FIG. 16 is a rear elevation view of a seventh embodiment which is similar to that
  of Fig. 14 except as shown;
  [0043]      FIG. 17 is an isometric view of an eighth embodiment;
  [0044]      FIG. 18 is a right side cross-sectional elevation view of the tray of FIG. 1;
  [0045]      FIG. 19 is an isometric view of a ninth embodiment;
  [0046]      FIG. 20 is an isometric view of a tenth embodiment identical to that of Fig. 14,
  but with a transparent lid;
  [0047]      FIG. 21 is a flow chart illustrating a method of making and displaying packaged
  food products;
  [0048]      FIG. 22 is a perspective view of an eleventh embodiment;
  [0049]      FIG. 23 is a front elevation view thereof;
  [0050]      FIG. 24 is a right side elevation view thereof;
                                              9

WO 2014/105712                                                             PCT/US2013/076988
  100511       FIG. 25 is a right side elevation view of a twelfth embodiment.
                                DETAILED DESCRIPTION
  [00521       In a first embodiment, illustrated in Fig. 1-7. there is provided a packaged food
  product 40 that comprises a rigid thermoformed tray 42 comprising one or more cavities or
  compartments, specifically an upper compartment 44, an intermediate compartment 46, and a
  lower compartment 48; and a lid 50 sealed to the tray. Food products 52, 54 and 56 (shown
  in Fig. 4) are disposed within the cavities.
  [0053]       Each cavity has one or more side walls and a rear wall. A back card 58 extends
  along and beyond coplanar rear walls 60 and 62 of the intermediate and lower compartments.
  The back card 58 is oriented so that so that the packaged food product is capable of being
  displayed on edge with the bottom end 64 of the flange 66, and the bottom end 68 of the back
  card 58 stably supporting the packaged food product on a horizontal surface 70 (Fig. 4),
  [0054]       The bottom end 68 of the back card extends downward and rearward from the rear
  surface of the bottom compartment to provide an enlarged footprint for the packaged food
  product. The rear walls 60, 62 and back card 58 may be oriented at an angle a of 5' to 40 or
   15' to 30' relative to the flange 66.
  [0055]       The back card 58 has front surface portions flush against and affixed by adhesives
  and/or other means to the angled rear walls 60 and 62 of the intermediate and lower
  compartments. The back card further has an upper end 72 abutting a bottom wall 74 of the
  upper compartment. The bottom wall of the second compartment may have a stabilizing
  surface 76 such as a shallow groove or a shelf, shown in Fig. 12, engaging the upper end or
  another portion of the back card. In other embodiments, an example of which is illustrated in
  Figs. 8 and 9, a portion of the back card 58 may extend upward beyond the upper cavity and
  may have an opening 104 above the upper cavity to facilitate hanging the packaged food
  product from a peg. Alternatively, the back card may extend laterally beyond the tray and
  have an opening to facilitate pegging of the product.
                                              10

WO 2014/105712                                                              PCT/US2013/076988
  [0056]        Some or all of the compartments 44, 46 and 48 may be gas flushed to reduce or
  eliminate oxygen therein. The lid may comprise a flexible film having moisture-barrier and
  oxygen-barrier properties.
  [0057]        To facilitate handling and to communicate information or a thematic concept, the
  product of claim I has a generally dumbbell-shaped front surface 80, with the middle cavity
  46 being narrower and shallower than the tipper and lower cavities. In keeping with the
  concept of the product, the front surface has information 108 prominently displayed thereon
  which may refer to protein content, e.g., the words "Protein Pack," or to the amount of
  protein contained in the product. The food product may comprise one or more proteinaceous
  food products such as diced cheese 52, diced meats 54 and nuts 56 that in the aggregate
  contain a significant amount of protein. By way of example and not by way of limitation, the
  amount of protein in some embodiments may be, e.g., about 5 to 20 grams; about 12 to 14
  grams; or about 13 grams, and the amount of protein may be communicated by text and/or
  graphics prominently displayed on the front surface 80, or otherwise included on the
  package. Other text, graphics, colors, etc. may also be included on any of the package
  surfaces to provide brand information, ingredient information, nutritional information, to
  make the package attractive, or for other reasons.
  [0058]        In some embodiments, the mass of the food product in the upper compartment
  may be less than the mass of the food product in the lower compartment to enhance stability.
  In other embodiments, the mass of the food product in the upper compartment may be equal
  to or greater than the mass of the food product in the lower compartment, and the angled
  back card may provide sufficient stability notwithstanding the higher center of gravity
  associated with this arrangement.
  [0059]        The product is preferably sized and shaped so that it has good handling
  characteristics. To this end, the tray 42 in some embodiments has a height "h" of 3 in. to 10
  in., or 6 in. to 7 in.; a maximum width of 2 to 5 in., or 3 to 4 in.; a reduced central width
  "W2;" a depth "d1 " of about I in. to 4 in., or 2 in. to 3 in.; and a reduced central depth "d2"
                                              11

WO 2014/105712                                                            PCT/US2013/076988
  that is less than di The back card 58 in some embodiments extends downward and rearward
  from the lower compartment, in some embodiments providing the product with an increased
  depth "d 3" which is greater than di at its bottom. In some embodiments, each of the upper
  and lower compartments 44 and 48 has a width "W3 ," and the middle compartment has a
  reduced width "W 4" which is less than W31 In the interest of promoting stability, the flange
  width "W 5 "and flange return dimension "W6"(shown in Fig. 18) are both preferably fairly
  small. In some embodiments, the flange width W5 may be, e.g., 5 to 6 nm., and the flange
  return dimension W6 may be, e.g., 0 to 5 mm. or 2 to 3 mm.
  [0060]        Figs. 8 and 9 illustrate an embodiment which is similar to that of Fig. I except as
  noted below. In the embodiment of Figs. 8 and 9, the back card 58 extends upward over and
  beyond the upper compartment 44 across its entire width, and peg openings 104 are provided
  in the lid 50, flange 66 and back card 58. In other similar embodiments, the back card may
  extend vertically beyond the upper edge of the flange, and a single peg opening may be
  provided in the back card only. Also, the width of the back card may be reduced near its
  upper end in other embodiments.
  [0061]        Fig. 10 illustrates an embodiment similar to that of Fig. 1, except that the depth of
  the lower compartment 48 in the embodiment of Fig. 10 is less than that of the upper
  compartment 44, and the depth of the product at its bottom, i.e., the distance from a plane
  defined by a front surface of the flange to the bottom/rearward end 68 of the back card is
  equal to the depth of the upper compartment 44. The configuration of Fig. 10 may facilitate
  compact stacking and display of food products 40 in upright, flat or other orientations. For
  example, a stack of horizontally oriented products like that shown in Fig. 10 may be more
  stable, absent significant deflection of the back card due to stacking loads. However, the
  stability of the embodiment of Fig. 10 may not be as great as that of the embodiment of Figs.
   1-7 due to the decreased depth at the bottom or base. Also, prior to attachment of the back
  card, if the tray of Fig. 10 is resting on the rear wall 82 of upper compartment 44 and rear
  wall 62 of lower compartment 48, the flange 66 will not be horizontal, which may complicate
  high speed filling and sealing of the trays.
                                              12

WO 2014/105712                                                            PCT/US2013/076988
  100621       As shown in Fig. 13, the back card need not be adhered to both the intermediate
  and lower compartments 46 and 48. but rather may be adhered only to the intermediate
  compartment 46, and may be spaced from the lower compartment 48.
  [0063]       Figs. 14, 15 and 20 illustrate a "multipack" packaged food product that comprises
  first and second trays 42 similar to those described above, each comprising a flange 66 and at
  least one cavity. The means for enclosing the food products within the cavities may
  comprise a first film lid hermetically sealed to the flange of the first tray and a second film
  lid hermetically sealed to the flange of the second tray. Alternatively, or additionally, the
  means for enclosing the food products within the cavities may include a single opaque (Fig.
   14) or transparent (Fig. 20) film lid 84 having a first portion 88 covering the first tray and a
  second portion 90 covering the second tray. Provision of a transparent lid, as shown in Fig.
  20, provides an advantage in that it may enable the underlying trays, food products contained
  therein, and/or graphics, text, etc. on underlying surfaces, to be viewed therethrough. The
  film lid 84 may have an area of weakness 86 such as a perforation to facilitate separation of
  the first portion from the second portion.
  [0064]       In multipack embodiments, the back card 58 may comprise a single back card
  having a first portion 92 engaging the first tray and a second portion 94 engaging the second
  tray, with an area of weakness 96 between the first and second portion to facilitate separation
  of the first portion frori the second portion. The area of weakness 96 may comprise a
  removable strip of material defined by a pair of parallel vertical perforations 98. A portion of
  one or more of the back cards may extend upward beyond the upper cavity and may have an
  opening above the upper cavity to facilitate hanging the packaged food product from a peg.
  [0065]       Fig. 16 and 17 illustrate further embodiments which are similar to that of Figs. 14
  and 15 except as noted below.
  [00661       In the embodiment of Fig. 16, a hang tab 100 with a peg opening 104 is provided
  on an extension 102 of removable strip 96, extending upward between the tipper
                                              13

WO 2014/105712                                                           PCT/US2013/076988
  compartments 44. The hang tab 100 may have an enlarged head to facilitate handling and
  provide additional strength and durability at around the opening.
  [0067]      In the embodiment of Fig. 17, the back card extends upward over and beyond the
  upper compartments 44 across its entire width, and peg openings 104 are provided in the lid
  50 and the back card 58.
  [0068]      Fig. 21 illustrates a method of packaging and displaying a food product in a high
  speed commercial packaging operation comprising the following steps (a) -- (f) 211 -- 216:
  [0069]      (a)     forming 211 a tray with a flange and at least one cavity having an angled
  rear surface;
  [0070]      (b)     placing 212 a food product in the cavity;
  [0071]      (c)     placing 213 a film over the tray;
  [0072]      (d)     sealing 214 the food product in at least one cavity;
  [0073]      (e)     placing 215 a rigid angled back card on the angled rear surface in a
  position that will enable the packaged food products to be stably self-supporting in an upright
  orientation on a generally horizontal surface with an edge of the flange contacting the
  generally horizontal surface, and with the back card extending down and away from the
  angled rear surface to contact the generally horizontal surface;
  [0074]      (f)     repeating 216 steps (a) through (e) to form a plurality of additional
  packaged food products; and
  [00751      (g)     standing 217 a plurality of packaged food products upright in a retail
  display.
  [00761      Step (b) may take place with the tray in a generally horizontal position, rotated
  90' clockwise from the position of Fig. 4, with the rear of the tray resting on a conveyor.
  [00771      Steps (a) through (f) may be performed in line in a single efficient high-speed
  commercial operation. Alternatively, one or more steps, such as forming the trays, may be
  performed off-line. Where the trays are formed off-line, they may be supplied to a filling and
  sealing line in stacks, nested together with stacking legs 106 (Fig. 19) provided to facilitate
  de-nesting.
                                            14

WO 2014/105712                                                           PCT/US2013/076988
  100781      Placing the rigid angled back card on the rear surface may comprise use of an
  adhesive or other means to affix the back card to the rear surface, and may further comprise
  affixing the back card to more than one compartment. In some embodiments, the tray may
  have two lower compartments with coplanar angled rear surfaces, and an upper compartment
  with a lower surface that has a stabilizing feature such as a notch, groove or shelf for
  receiving an tipper end of the back card.
  [0079]      Additional steps, such as a gas-flush step, may be included in the process. The
  process may also include joining the packaged food products in pairs, wherein placing the
  rigid angled back card on the angled rear surface comprises placing a single rigid angled
  back card on rear surfaces of two trays.
  [0080]      After forming, filling and sealing the packages and attaching back cards, the
  resulting packaged food products may be transported to retail locations and placed on
  horizontal shelves in upright and vertical positions in which they are stable and self
  supporting. Alternatively, they may displayed in other ways, e.g., on shelves in upright
  positions in which they lean on adjacent products or other structures; on shelves in flat or
  horizontal positions; or on pegs, suspended from a top or side hang tab in an upright or
  sideways position.
  [0081]      Figs. 22-24 illustrate a further embodiment comprising a tray 42 for use in a
  packaged food product like that of Fig. 1. The tray 42 of Figs. 22-24 includes an upper
  compartment 44, an intermediate compartment 46 and a lower compartment 48. The tray 42
  is generally dumbbell-shaped and is otherwise similar to the tray of Fig. 1, except that (1) the
  tray is symmetrical about a horizontal axis, with its intermediate compartment 46 having a
  generally vertical back wall 60 and (2) the tray is wider than the tray of Fig. 1. Food
  packages employing the tray of Figs. 22-24 may include a back panel, but will not
  necessarily include a back panel.
                                             15

WO 2014/105712                                                            PCT/US2013/076988
  100821       FIG. 25 illustrates a further embodiment similar to that of Figs. 1-7, except that in
  the embodiment illustrated in Fig. 25, the back wall 82 of the upper compartment 44 has a
  generally planar surface 83 disposed in a plane that is tangent to the deepest portion of the
  bottom compartment 48. In this embodiment, the maximum depth of the upper compartment
  is equal to the maximum depth of the bottom compartment 48. That is, the distance from a
  plane defined by a front surface of the flange 66 to the rearmost portion of the bottom
  compartment 48 is equal to the distance from the same plane to the rearmost portion of the
  top compartment. This configuration may provide increased stability of the rigid
  thermoformed tray 42 during filling due to increased surface area being in contact with a
  conveyor. That is, if the tray is filled prior to attachment of the back card 58, with the tray
  being in a generally horizontal position on a conveyor or other supporting surface, the
  generally planar surface 83 provides increased contact area, to increase stability such that the
  tray is less susceptible to tipping, sliding, rocking or other undesirable movement relative to
  the conveyor or other supporting surface.
                                              16

The Claims Defining The Invention Are As Follows:
1.       A packaged food product capable of being displayed on edge comprising:
         a tray comprising a flange having a first end and a second end, at least one bottom cavity, at least
one top cavity thereabove, and at least one middle cavity between the top and bottom cavities, each
cavity having one or more side walls and a rear wall;
         a lid sealed to the flange;
         a food product disposed within each cavity, wherein the food products comprise at least one
high-protein food item;
         a back card that extends along and beyond the rear wall of the bottom cavity, the back card
having a first end and a second end, and oriented so that so that the packaged food product is capable of
being displayed on edge with the first end of the flange in an elevated position above the second end of
the flange, and with the first end of the back card in an elevated position above the second end of the
back card, and with the second end of the flange and the second end of the back card stably supporting
the packaged food product on a horizontal surface, the back card contacting the bottom cavity and the
top cavity;
         wherein the packaged food product can be held in one hand, having a height of 6 in. to 7 in., a
maximum width of 2 to 5 in., a depth of about 1 in. to 4 in., and a recessed midsection, and a generally
dumbbell-shaped front surface that has information prominently displayed thereon referring to protein
content;
         the middle cavity being narrower and than the top and bottom cavities, having a width less than
that of the top and bottom cavities.
2.       The packaged food product of claim 1 wherein the middle cavity has a depth less than that of the
top and bottom cavities.
3.       The packaged food product of claim 2 wherein the cavities are gas flushed to reduce or eliminate
oxygen therein, and wherein the food product in the top cavity is a diced cheese product, and the food
product in the bottom cavity is a diced meat product.
                                                      17

4.       The packaged food product of claim 3 wherein the food product in the middle cavity comprises
tree nuts.
5.       The packaged food product of claim 4 wherein the mass of the food product in the upper cavity
is less than the mass of the food product in the lower cavity.
6.       The packaged food product of claim 5 further comprising a second middle cavity, wherein the
middle cavities are beside each other.
7.       The packaged food product of claim 6 wherein the lid is a film that is hermetically sealed to the
flange.
8.       The packaged food product of claim 7 wherein the flange defines a plane, and wherein the
distance from the plane of the flange to the bottom end of the angled back card is equal to the depth of
the upper cavity.
9.       A method of providing a packaged food product which has a generally dumbbell-shaped front
surface that has protein content information prominently displayed thereon, comprising:
         (a)     forming a tray with a generally dumbbell-shaped front surface, a flange and at least a top
cavity, a bottom cavity, and a middle cavity therebetween;
         (b)    placing a respective food product in each cavity, comprising at least one high-protein
food product;
         (c)    placing a film with prominently-displayed protein information over the tray;
         (d)     sealing the food products in the cavities;
         (e)    placing a rigid back card on a rear surface in a position that will enable the packaged food
product to be stably self-supporting in an upright orientation on a generally horizontal surface with an
edge of the flange contacting the generally horizontal surface, and with the back card extending down
from the rear surface to contact the generally horizontal surface; and
         (f)    repeating steps (a) through (e) to form a plurality of additional packaged food products;
                wherein each of the packaged food products can be held in one hand, and each has a
recessed midsection, the middle cavity being narrower than the top and bottom cavities.
                                                      18

10.      The method of claim 9 wherein steps (a) through (f) are performed in line.
11.      The method of claim 9 wherein the trays are pre-formed off line.
12.      The method of any one of claims 9 to 11 wherein each of the trays comprises an upper cavity
having a rear surface, a lower cavity having a rear surface, and an intermediate cavity having a rear
surface, the upper and lower cavities having substantially the same depth, and wherein placing a food
product in the tray comprises placing the tray in a horizontal position with the tray resting on the rear
surfaces of the upper and lower cavities prior to placement of the angled back card on the angled rear
surface.
13.      The method of any one of claims 9 to 12 further comprising displaying the product in a
horizontal configuration.
14.     A method of packaging a food product in a high-speed commercial packaging operation and
thereafter displaying the packaged food product in a retail setting, comprising:
         (a)    forming a tray having a generally dumbbell-shaped front surface with a flange and top,
bottom and middle cavities, each cavity having a rear surface;
         (b)    placing a respective high-protein food product in each cavity;
         (c)    placing a film with prominently-displayed protein information thereon over the tray;
         (d)    sealing the food products in the cavities;
         (e)    placing a rigid back card on the rear surface of at least the bottom cavity;
         (f)    repeating steps (a) through (e) to form a plurality of additional packaged food products;
and
         (g)    standing a plurality of the packaged food products upright in a retail display such that
each of the packaged food products is stably self-supporting in an upright orientation on a generally
horizontal surface with an edge of the flange contacting the generally horizontal surface, with the top
cavity above the middle and bottom cavities, and with the back card extending down from the rear
surface to contact the generally horizontal surface;
                                                      19

       wherein each of the packaged food products can be held in one hand, and has a recessed
midsection;
       wherein the at least one cavity is gas flushed to reduce or eliminate oxygen therein; and
       wherein the middle cavity is narrower and shallower than the upper and lower cavities.
                                                    20

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
