Abstract
A pedal for a vehicle comprising a first control surface and a fulcrum so that the control
surface pivots about the fulcrum, wherein the first control surface extends across the fulcrum;
wherein pivoting of said first control surface in a first direction being associated with a
braking system of said vehicle and pivoting of said first control surface in a second direction
being associated with an acceleration system of said vehicle, so that pivoting of said first
control surface about said fulcrum causes either braking or acceleration of said vehicle, and
wherein the pedal is adapted to be operated by two feet of a user, wherein a first foot is used
to pivot the first control surface in the first direction and a second foot is used to pivot the first
control surface in the second direction.
7858891_1 (GHMatters) P91451.AU

                                        VEHICLE CONTROL SYSTEM
             This application is a divisional application of Australian application no. <removed-apn>
which was a divisional application of Australian application no. 2010348751. The disclosures
of both parent applications are incorporated herein, in their entirety, by reference.
Technical field
             This invention relates to a vehicle control system and, in particular, a pedal.
Background
             Pedals for manual transmission vehicles include accelerator, brake and clutch pedals;
automatic transmission vehicles do not require a clutch pedal. The accelerator, also known as
the gas pedal or the throttle, controls the fuel and/or air supply to the engine of the vehicle,
which may be an automobile.
             In some automobiles, an additional parking brake pedal is provided. This parking
brake pedal is provided in place of a hand brake.
             Pedals are commonly provided in either a standing or a hanging arrangement.
Standing pedals protrude from the floor of the vehicle, while hanging pedals extend
downwards into the foot well of the vehicle.
             A space behind each pedal is required so that the driver of the vehicle is able to
depress the pedal. The driver of the vehicle activates the pedal by pressing their foot against
the pedal and moving it towards the front of the vehicle.
             Therefore, in typical vehicles, there is a space in, around, above and/or below the
pedals. This space may pose a hazard to the operation of the vehicle. Objects may become
wedged in or around the pedals, or parts of the interior of the vehicle may interfere with the
proper and safe functioning of the pedals. Such objects include carpets or rugs in the foot
well of the vehicle which entangle with the pedals. The carpet (or other object) may therefore
inhibit the proper working of one or more pedals by a driver of the vehicle by either blocking
access to the pedal, by jamming the mechanism of the pedal, or by restricting the range of
                                                      1
10445558_1 (GHMatters) P91451.AU.2

movement of the pedal or by impeding a human reflex. This, in turn, may result in the driver
losing control, or not being in full control, of the vehicle.
             An advantage of the invention is directed to reducing the hazard that vehicle pedals
pose to those in and around a vehicle.
Summary of the invention
             According to a first aspect, the disclosure provides a control system for a vehicle, the
vehicle comprising an acceleration system, a braking system and a foot well having a floor,
the control system comprising a control surface mounted for pivoting movement about a
fulcrum, said control surface having a lower end and extending across said fulcrum, the floor
of the footwell having a width which extends from a first side end of the floor of the foot well
to a second side end of the floor of the foot well at the location of the control surface, the
width of the control surface being the same as the width of the foot well at the location of the
control surface, said control surface being connected to said acceleration system and said
braking system so that pivoting of said control surface in a first direction causes braking of
said vehicle and pivoting in a second direction causes acceleration, said control system further
comprising means for determining a change in the direction of pivoting of said control
surface, said control system being adapted to alternate between braking and acceleration or
vice versa on detecting said change in the direction of pivoting of said control surface.
             The range movement of the control surface in the first direction to cause braking may
be dynamic.
             The range of movement of the control surface in the first direction to cause braking
may be dependent upon the position of the control surface about the fulcrum.
             The range of movement of the control surface in the second direction to cause
acceleration may be dynamic.
             The range of movement of the control surface in the second direction to cause
acceleration may be dependent upon the position of the control surface about the fulcrum.
             Said means for detecting a change in direction of pivoting of said control surface may
comprise a means for detecting a distance between said control surface and a foot well of said
vehicle.
             Said means for detecting a change in a direction of pivoting of said control surface
may comprise a linear shaft encoder.
                                                     2
10445558_1 (GHMatters) P91451.AU.2

             Said means for detecting a change in a direction of pivoting of said control surface
may comprise a rotary shaft encoder.
             The control system may further comprise a clutch pedal, wherein the clutch pedal is
located between the first control surface and user of the pedal.
             The clutch pedal may be located between the fulcrum and a location of the user.
             Said control surface may be concave with respect to the user.
             Said control surface may be orientated substantially vertically with respect to the
orientation of the user.
             The vehicle may be an automobile.
             The control surface of the pedal may be mounted by either a hanging or a standing
connection. The control surface may be fixed in position within the foot well, or may be
electronically or mechanically adjustable to alter the position thereof within the foot well.
             The disclosure provides a pedal which may be less likely to become jammed by, or
entangled with, objects in the foot well of the vehicle such as mats. Furthermore where, for
example, a carpet is at least partially covering the pedal of the invention, the pedal may still
be operable.
             The pivoting of the pedal about a fulcrum may help to provide a mechanism where
either the first or second side or end of the control system may be depressed to generate a
control signal. However, in certain arrangements, both sides or ends of the control surface
cannot be depressed simultaneously to generate multiple control signals corresponding to both
sides or ends of the control surface.
             The pedal may help to provide control of the vehicle such that it is impossible to
attempt to accelerate and brake simultaneously. Therefore, a safer and more reliable control of
the vehicle may be provided and unnecessary wear and tear of brake pads and brake discs
may be avoided
             By providing an area of the pedal comparable to the size of the foot well,
embodiments may help to reduce the chances that the driver will miss the desired end or side
in an emergency.
             In addition to help to increase safety during operation of the vehicle, embodiments
may provide better utilisation of the area behind the pedals. As the cavity behind the pedals in
the foot well of a vehicle may thereby be decreased, it is then possible to utilise this space to
either shorten the vehicle, or provide more storage in that or a different part of the vehicle.
                                                    3
10445558_1 (GHMatters) P91451.AU.2

             One or more sensors may be used to identify a force provided by a driver which pivots
the control surface about the fulcrum. The torsional force acting about the fulcrum or a
rotation about the fulcrum may also be measured to translate the driver's actions into control
of the vehicle.
             Further, a hydraulic, pneumatic, electric or electronic system may be positioned
behind at least one side of the control surface to transmit force applied by the driver against
either side of the control surface to braking or acceleration systems of the vehicle.
             Also disclosed herein is a pedal for a vehicle comprising a control surface and a
fulcrum so that the control surface pivots about the fulcrum, wherein pivoting of said control
surface in a first direction being associated with a braking system of said vehicle and pivoting
of said control surface in a second direction being associated with an acceleration system of
said vehicle, so that pivoting of said control surface about said fulcrum causes either braking
or acceleration of said vehicle, and wherein the pedal is adapted to be operated by two feet of
a user, wherein a first foot is used to pivot the pedal in the first direction and a second foot is
used to pivot the pedal in the second direction.
             The pedal may further comprise a clutch pedal, wherein the clutch pedal is located in
between the first control surface and the driver of the vehicle.
             The clutch pedal may be located between the fulcrum and a location of the user.
             The control surface may be concave with respect to the user.
             The control surface may be orientated substantially vertically with respect to the
orientation of the user.
             Also disclosed herein is a vehicle control device operable by two feet of a driver of a
vehicle, said control device being arranged in said vehicle so that pressure on a first side of
the first control surface form a first foot of the driver issues an acceleration instruction to the
vehicle, while pressure on a second side of the first control surface form a second foot of the
driver issues a braking instruction to the vehicle, and wherein said control device is arranged
so that it is not possible to issue the acceleration and braking instructions simultaneously.
             Also disclosed herein is a pedal for a vehicle comprising a control surface and a
fulcrum so that the control surface pivots about the fulcrum, wherein pivoting of said control
surface in a first direction is associated with a braking system of said vehicle and pivoting of
                                                    4
10445558_1 (GHMatters) P91451.AU.2

said control surface in a second direction is associated with an acceleration system of said
vehicle, so that pivoting of said control surface about said fulcrum causes either braking or
acceleration of said vehicle, and wherein the fulcrum is orientated substantially parallel to a
medial line of a user of the pedal substantially perpendicular to a floor surface of the vehicle.
             Also disclosed herein is a control system for a vehicle, the vehicle comprising an
acceleration system and a braking system, the control system comprising a control surface
mounted for pivoting movement about a fulcrum, said control surface being connected to said
acceleration system and said braking system so that pivoting of said control surface in a first
direction causes acceleration of said vehicle and pivoting in a second direction causes
braking, said control system further comprising means for determining a change in the
direction of pivoting of said control system, said control system being adapted to alternate
between braking and acceleration or vice versa or detecting said change in the direction of
pivoting of said control surface.
             The means for detecting a change in direction of pivoting of said control surface may
comprise means for detecting a distance between said control surface and a foot well of said
vehicle.
             The means for detecting a change in a direction of pivoting of said control surface may
comprise a linear shaft encoder.
             The means for detecting a change in a direction of pivoting of said control surface may
comprise a rotary shaft encoder.
Brief Description of the Drawings
             Embodiments will now be described with reference to the drawings in which:
             Figure 1 is a front schematic view of a pedal in accordance with a first embodiment;
             Figure 2 is a plan schematic view of the pedal of Figure 1;
             Figure 3 is a plan schematic view of a pedal in accordance with a second
embodiment;
                                                     5
10445558_1 (GHMatters) P91451.AU.2

             Figure 4 is an isometric view of a pedal in accordance with a second embodiment;
             Figure 5 is a plan schematic view of a pedal in accordance with a second
embodiment;
             Figure 6 is a plan schematic view of a part of the pedal in accordance with a third
embodiment;
             Figure 7 is a plan schematic view of a pedal in accordance with a fourth embodiment;
             Figure 8 is an isometric view of a pedal and a footrest in a foot well in accordance
with a second embodiment;
             Figure 9 is a plan schematic view of a pedal and pneumatic connections in accordance
with a fifth embodiment;
             Figure 10 is a plan schematic view of a pedal in accordance with a sixth embodiment;
             Figure 11 is a schematic illustration of a control surface according to the embodiment
of Figure 10 arranged in a vehicle; and
             Figure 12 is a schematic illustration of a plan view of a control surface according to an
embodiment of the invention illustrating an operation of the control surface.
Detailed Description of Specific Embodiments
             Referring to Figure 1, the pedal 1 comprises a control surface 2 having a first side 3
and a second side 4. Adjacent to the first control surface 2 is a footrest 6. The first control
surface 2 may move independently of the footrest 6. A fulcrum 5 is attached to the control
surface 2 and partitions the control surface so that it has the first side 3 and the second side 4.
             The control surface 2 pivots about the fulcrum 5 with the application of a force to
either the first side 3 of the first control surface 2 or to the second side 4 of the first control
surface 2.
                                                      6
10445558_1 (GHMatters) P91451.AU.2

             Referring to Figure 2, the pedal 1 is housed within a foot well 9 of an automobile. The
fulcrum 5 is disposed behind the control surface 2. The positioning of the fulcrum in the
embodiment shown provides a greater area for the second side 4 than the area of the first side
3. As illustrated in Figure 2, the left foot 20 and right foot 22 (both illustrated in dashed
outline) of a user are located within the foot well 9. Dashed line 24 represents a median line of
the user with left foot 20 and right foot 22 disposed on either side of median line 24. The
control surface 3 is orientated so that the left foot 20 operates the second side 4 and right foot
22 operates the first side 3. As the control surface 2 pivots about fulcrum 5, it will be
appreciated that it is not possible for the user to depress both the first side 3 and the second
side 4 simultaneously.
             A force applied to either the first side 3 or second side 4 of the first control surface 2
will cause the first control surface 2 to pivot about the fulcrum 5.
             The pivoting of the first control surface 2 about the fulcrum 5 provides an input for the
acceleration and braking systems of the vehicle. In the embodiment illustrated, the input to the
acceleration and breaking systems is provided by a mechanical linkage. In further
embodiments a hydraulic, pneumatic or electronic linkage may be provided. The mechanical
linkage functions similarly to a standing or hanging pedal in typical automobiles, where the
mechanical linkage connects the first control surface 2 to the acceleration system and the
braking system of the automobile.
             Where an electronic system is used, a sensor detects the position or movement of the
first control surface 2. This information is then transmitted to an actuator which controls the
acceleration and/or braking systems.
             In further embodiments, a combination of the above types of control systems may be
used. Multiple control systems may be used to provide increased reliability of the acceleration
and braking systems.
             Figure 3 illustrates a plan view of a second embodiment of pedal 1 providing control
surface 2 and clutch 7. The control surface 2 comprises a first side 3 and a second side 4.
                                                      7
10445558_1 (GHMatters) P91451.AU.2

             The clutch pedal 7 is positioned in front of both the control surface 2 and the fulcrum
5. The clutch pedal 7 is connected to a clutch which is operated when the clutch pedal 7 is
depressed.
             In Figure 3, the clutch pedal 7 is operated by a force provided by a driver. The
depressed state 8 of the clutch pedal 7 is shown by a dashed line.
             Figure 4 shows the control surface 2 and the clutch pedal 7. In this embodiment, the
clutch pedal 7 does not extend the full height of the first control surface 2. However, in a
further embodiment the clutch pedal 7 extends the full height of the first control surface 2.
             Figure 5 shows the control surface 2 and the associated fulcrum 5. Also shown is the
clutch 7, a pivot point 11 and a rod 10 connecting the pivot point 11 to the clutch 7.
             In this embodiment, the clutch pedal 7 is coupled to a pressure sensor, not shown. The
pressure sensor is operable to detect when the driver of the vehicle depresses the clutch pedal
7. The signal from the pressure sensor is transmitted to an actuator which controls the clutch
of the vehicle.
             The pressure sensor is located between the clutch pedal 7 and the first control surface
2. To avoid force applied to the clutch pedal 7 causing rotation of the control surface 2, the
clutch plate is mounted in front of the fulcrum 5. In a further embodiment, the control surface
2 includes a pressure sensor connected to an actuator of a clutch in place of a clutch pedal.
             The pivot point 11 is coupled to the clutch 7 in such a way that any movement of the
clutch 7 provides a force which causes movement of the pivot 11. The pivot point 11 is
connected to a clutch of an automobile. The pivot point 11 is, in this embodiment, connected
to the clutch 7 by a mechanical linkage. In further embodiments, this connection may be
hydraulic, pneumatic or electronic.
             In the embodiment of Figure 5, the rod 10 passes through the first control surface 2
and above the fulcrum 5. The rod 10 contacts the rear of the first control surface 2. In certain
                                                    8
10445558_1 (GHMatters) P91451.AU.2

embodiments, the fulcrum 5 does not run the entire vertical length of the first control surface
2.
             In Figure 6, the rod 18 does not pass through the fulcrum 5. Instead, in this
embodiment, the rod 18 passes through the first control surface 2 at a point to the right of the
fulcrum 5 (as viewed in Figure 6). The rod 18 comprises three sections.
             In the embodiment of Figure 7, the pivot point 11 is located in front of the first control
surface 2 and the rod 19 does not pass through the first control surface 2. The rod 19 can
therefore be made to a relatively short length and this will allow the pivot point 11 to be
positioned at the rear surface of the clutch 7.
             Figure 8 illustrates the first control surface 2, the clutch 7 and a footrest 6 positioned
in the foot well 9 of a vehicle.
             Figure 9 illustrates the control surface 2 and clutch pedal 7 according to a fifth
embodiment. Both control surfaces 2, 7 are connected to a pneumatic system 13. The second
control surface 7 is connected to the pneumatic system 13 by a pneumatic cylinder 14 and a
flow line 12. A spring 15 provides a biasing means which ensures that the second control
surface returns to a non-depressed state when a depressive force is removed.
             The first control surface 2 is connected to the pneumatic system 13 by a pneumatic
spring cylinder 16. This provides a pneumatic cylinder combined with a spring.
             Figure 10 illustrates a further embodiment of a pedal or control system of the
invention. The control system or pedal 100 includes similar elements to that of the
embodiment illustrated in Figure 2 and similar reference numerals are used to refer to the
same features. In addition, the control system 100 includes a linear shaft encoder 28 attached
to a back wall 26 of the foot well 9. The linear shaft encoder 28 is also attached to the control
surface 2. The linear shaft encoder 28 measures a distance between the back of the control
surface 2 and the back wall 26 of foot well 9. Therefore, when a user depresses the first side 3
of control surface 2, the distance between the second side 4 of the control surface 2 and the
back wall 26 is increased and this is measured by the linear shaft encoder 28. Similarly, when
                                                       9
10445558_1 (GHMatters) P91451.AU.2

a user depresses the second side 4 of control surface 2, the distance between the back of
control surface 2 and the back wall 26 of foot well 9 is decreased which is measured by linear
shaft encoder 28.
             Figure 11 is a schematic illustration of an arrangement of the control surface 100
arranged in a vehicle. As illustrated in Figure 11, control surface 100 is attached to the linear
encoder 28 illustrated in Figure 10. The linear encoder 28 is, in turn, attached to a controller
34. The controller 34 controls acceleration and braking of the vehicle and is therefore attached
to a braking system 36 and to an acceleration system 38. Braking system 36 and acceleration
system 38 illustrated in Figure 11 are typical and will therefore not be further described
herein.
             As the control surface 100 pivots about fulcrum 5, the distance between the control
surface 2 and the back wall 26 of the foot well 9 varies in the manner described above. This
variation in distance is detected by linear encoder 28 and communicated to controller 34. The
controller 34, by continuously monitoring the distances reported by linear encoder 28, is able
to determine when the direction in which control surface 2 pivots changes. In other words, the
controller is able to determine when a user depresses an opposite side of the control surface
2.
             The controller 34 is adapted to react to a determination that the direction of pivoting of
the control surface 2 has changed by switching between acceleration system 38 and braking
system 36. In the embodiment illustrated in Figure 10, the first side 3 of control surface 2 is
connected to acceleration system 38 and second side 4 of control surface 2 is connected to
braking system 36.
             When a user presses the first side 3 of control surface 2 using foot 22, the controller 34
engages the acceleration system 38. When the user then causes the control surface 2 to start
pivoting in the opposite direction by depressing the second side 4 by using foot 20, the
controller 34 will detect this change in the pivoting direction and immediately swap from the
acceleration system 38 to the braking system 36.
                                                     10
10445558_1 (GHMatters) P91451.AU.2

             In this way, the controller is able to detect a change in the direction of pivoting of the
control surface 2 and translate this immediately into a change between acceleration and
braking. This has the advantage that, in an emergency situation, the system need not rely on
the lag which may be produced by having the control surface first return to a neutral position
before the braking system is engaged, which can occur with some forms of control surfaces.
             Although the above description applies to a change between acceleration and braking,
it is to be realised that the same considerations apply between braking and acceleration.
Furthermore, the above embodiment has been described with a user using separate feet to
operate the two sides of control surface 2, but it is to be realised that the user could use one
foot by moving that foot between the two sides 3 and 4 of the control surface 2.
             A rotary shaft encoder may be used in place of the linear shaft encoder 28 to measure
angular displacement of the control surface 2. Other systems and sensors for measuring
distance or the pivotal extent of the control surface 2 may also be used.
             Figure 12 is a schematic illustration of a plan view of a control surface 2 and fulcrum
5 according to an embodiment of the invention illustrating an operation of the control surface.
                                                                             2
In Figure 12 the control surface 2 is shown in a neutral position              N which is the position
which the control surface occupies when the vehicle is at rest. Arrow 40 represents the
direction in which the control surface is moved to produce acceleration. Similarly, arrow 42
represents the direction in which the control surface 2 moves to produce braking.
             The position illustrated at 2' in Figure 12 is the position of maximum extension for
acceleration. In other words, when the control surface 2 reaches the position 2' where side 3 of
the control surface abuts the back wall 26 of the foot well 9, it is not possible for the control
surface 2 to extend any further in this direction and therefore this position corresponds to the
maximum acceleration of the vehicle. Similarly, the position 2" represents the position
corresponding to maximum braking of the vehicle where side 4 abuts back wall 26 of foot
well 9.
                                                                                     2
             As illustrated in Figure 12, when the control surface is at position      N, the maximum
linear distance either side of the control surface is able to be displaced is the distance HR,
                                                      11
10445558_1 (GHMatters) P91451.AU.2

shown by the marked dotted line in Figure 12. However, when the control surface is in either
of position 2' or 2" the maximum linear distance the corresponding side may be displaced
through is HM (also shown in dotted line in Figure 12).
             Therefore, the controller 34 (as shown in Figure 11) is able to, using the linear or
radial measurement of the position of the control surface 2 (Figures 9 and 10), use the entire
available extent of movement of the control surface from the position where it is first
depressed as the full distance for the entire range of braking or acceleration of the vehicle. In
a further embodiment, the                  control surface    may be used in conjunction with the
electromechanical interface described in co-pending application no. issued to the same
applicant with attorney's reference P525821GB.
             By way of illustration, if it is assumed that the control surface is in position 2" shown
in Figure 12 due to the vehicle having undergone braking. The user will then issue an
acceleration instruction by depressing side 3 of the control surface. The controller 34 will
have determined that the entire distance HM is available and therefore have mapped the range
of movement through this distance onto a degree of acceleration so that the entire dynamic
range of available acceleration is represented by the positions of the control surface between
the positions 2" and 2'. Similarly, if the side 3 is depressed when the control surface is in
               2
position          N,    the controller 34 will map the available linear distance HR onto the full dynamic
range of acceleration instructions.
             It is to be realised that this will apply not only to the extreme positions illustrated in
Figure 12, but that the controller is able to convert all available positions into the full dynamic
range available for acceleration, or braking, as the case may be. Therefore, any change from
acceleration to braking, or vice versa, will be interpreted by the controller 34 appropriately.
             In a further embodiment, the pneumatic system comprises separate pneumatic systems
for each of the acceleration and braking of the vehicle.
             In further embodiments damping may also be provided for both control surfaces 2, 7.
Damping may be adjusted to provide the driver of the vehicle with an appropriate and optimal
                                                         12
10445558_1 (GHMatters) P91451.AU.2

haptic response. Damping may be implemented using separate damping elements connected
to the control surfaces 2, 7 or within the pneumatic system 13.
             In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention, except
where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the
word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive
sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or
addition of further features in various embodiments of the invention.
             It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to herein, such
reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the common
general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
                                                  13
10445558_1 (GHMatters) P91451.AU.2

 CLAIMS
1.           A control system for a vehicle, the vehicle comprising an acceleration system, a
             braking system and a foot well having a floor, the control system comprising a control
             surface mounted for pivoting movement about a fulcrum, said control surface having a
             lower end and extending across said fulcrum, the floor of the footwell having a width
             which extends from a first side end of the floor of the foot well to a second side end of
             the floor of the foot well at the location of the control surface, the width of the control
             surface being the same as the width of the foot well at the location of the control
             surface, said control surface being connected to said acceleration system and said
             braking system so that pivoting of said control surface in a first direction causes
             braking of said vehicle and pivoting in a second direction causes acceleration, said
             control system further comprising means for determining a change in the direction of
             pivoting of said control surface, said control system being adapted to alternate
             between braking and acceleration or vice versa on detecting said change in the
             direction of pivoting of said control surface.
2.           The control system of claim 1, wherein the range movement of the control surface in
             the first direction to cause braking is dynamic.
3.           The control system of claim 2, wherein the range of movement of the control surface
             in the first direction to cause braking is dependent upon the position of the control
             surface about the fulcrum.
4.           The control system of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the range movement of the
             control surface in the second direction to cause acceleration is dynamic.
5.           The control system of claim 4, wherein the range of movement of the control surface
             in the second direction to cause acceleration is dependent upon the position of the
             control surface about the fulcrum.
                                                      14
10445558_1 (GHMatters) P91451.AU.2

6.           The control system according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein said means for
             detecting a change in direction of pivoting of said control surface comprises a means
             for detecting a distance between said control surface and a foot well of said vehicle.
7.           The control system according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein said means for
             detecting a change in a direction of pivoting of said control surface comprises a linear
             shaft encoder.
8.           The control system according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein said means for
             detecting a change in a direction of pivoting of said control surface comprises a rotary
             shaft encoder.
9.           The control system of any one of claims 1 to 8, further comprising a clutch pedal,
             wherein the clutch pedal is located between the first control surface and user of the
             pedal.
10.          The control system of claim 9, wherein the clutch pedal is located between the fulcrum
             and a location of the user.
11.          The control system of any one of claim 1 to 10, wherein said control surface is
             concave with respect to the user.
12.          The control system of claim 11, wherein said control surface is orientated substantially
             vertically with respect to the orientation of the user.
                                                      15
10445558_1 (GHMatters) P91451.AU.2

                 <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
             6
                 4
FIG. 1   5       2                  1/8
                 3
                     1

<removed-date>
                       2/8
<removed-apn>
                                                      1
                           2       5             26
                  4                          3
              6
                  20
                               9        22
                                   24
                      FIG. 2

                         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
             6
                 4
FIG. 3               8
                                            3/8
         9
                     5
                     7
                     2
             3

<removed-date>
                               4/8
                                2
                                         7
<removed-apn>
                               FIG. 4
                   11
               10          5
                                     2
                   7
                   FIG. 5
                                             5   11
                                                      2
                                             7 18
                                             FIG. 6
                       5
              19                 2
                   7       11
                   FIG. 7

                         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                 6
         9
FIG. 8
                                            5/8
             7
                     2

<removed-date>
                             6/8
<removed-apn>                            13
                   12
                                 12
              16                      5
                                               2
                                          15
                        14
                                7
                             FIG. 9

<removed-date>
                       7/8
<removed-apn>                                             100
                       28   2       5             26
                  4                           3
              6
                  20
                                9        22
                                    24
                  FIG. 10

<removed-date>
                                                 8/8
<removed-apn>
              100              28                    34                    36
               Control              Linear                                     Braking
                                                       Controller
               Surface             Encoder                                     System
                                                     Acceleration         38
                                                       System
                                                 FIG. 11
                                                            5              2'            26
                         HR                                                         40
               HM             42
                                                                           2N
                                                                2''
                                             4                        3
                                                 FIG. 12

