                                        ABSTRACT
        This disclosure is directed to a catheter having a multi-electrode assembly with a
high electrode density. The multi-electrode assembly may be a basket-shaped electrode
assembly or a brush-shaped electrode assembly each having a plurality of spines. Each
spine includes a flexible wire core of a shape memory material. The flexible wires may
have variable cross-section s to control the movement and stiffness of the spines.

           1/4
      ,L))
  CDOo
44:

                             CATHETER WITH SUPPORTING
                    STRUCTURE HAVING VARIABLE DIMENSIONS
                          FIELD OF THE PRESENT DISCLOSURE
[001]        This invention relates to electrophysiologic (EP) catheters, in particular, EP
catheters for mapping and/or ablation in the heart. More particularly, the invention
relates to EP catheters having support structure with variable dimensions.
                                       BACKGROUND
[002]        Electrophysiology catheters are commonly-used for mapping electrical
activity in the heart. Various electrode designs are known for different purposes. In
particular, catheters having basket-shaped electrode arrays are known and described, for
example, in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,772,590, 6,748,255 and 6,973,340, the entire disclosures of
each of which are incorporated herein by reference.
[003]        Basket catheters typically have an elongated catheter body and a basket
shaped electrode assembly mounted at the distal end of the catheter body. The basket
assembly has proximal and distal ends and comprises a plurality of spines connected at
their proximal and distal ends. Each spine comprises at least one electrode. The basket
assembly has an expanded arrangement wherein the spines bow radially outwardly and
a collapsed arrangement wherein the spines are arranged generally along the axis of the
catheter body.
[004]        It is desirable that an multi-electrode assembly be capable of detecting in as
few beats as possible, including a single beat, as much of the electrical function of the
region in which the electrode assembly is deployed, such as the left or right atrium as
possible. By implementing a greater number of electrodes in the electrode assembly,
correspondingly greater and more complete coverage of the region may be obtained.
Further, the increased number of electrodes may reduce or eliminate the need to
reposition the electrode assembly to access all of the desired area in the region. Often,
increasing the number of electrodes corresponds with an increase in the number of
spines or other structures that support the electrodes. One problem with prior art
designs with multiple spines is that the movement of the spines when deployed is not
easily controlled and may lead to the spines moving closer together so that the spines
                                                -1-

and electrodes may be touching or overlapping. Touching or overlapping spines and
electrodes may lead to inaccurate data collection or inefficient treatment of the tissue.
Another issue with prior devices is that the spines may not be robust enough to maintain
contact with the tissue to be mapped or treated. As such, there is a need for a multi
electrode assembly having an improved support member for controlling the movement
of the spines and maintaining electrode contact with the tissue. The techniques of this
disclosure satisfy this and other needs as described in the following materials.
                                         SUMMARY
[005]       The present disclosure is directed to a catheter including an elongated
catheter body extending along a longitudinal axis, the elongated catheter body having a
proximal end and a distal end, a flexible wire assembly positioned at the distal end of
the elongated catheter body formed from a shape memory material, the flexible wire
assembly having a plurality of flexible wires, each flexible wire having a proximal end
and a distal end and wherein at least one of the flexible wires has a variable cross
section. The catheter further includes a plurality of spines formed from the plurality of
flexible wires and a plurality of electrodes and cabling attached to each spine.
[006]       In one aspect, the distal ends of the plurality of flexible wires are joined at a
distal hub to form a basket-shapes multi-electrode device.
[007]       In one aspect, the at least one flexible wire has a variable thickness where a
middle portion of the flexible wire has a first thickness and a proximal portion of the
flexible wire has a second thickness, where the second thickness is greater than the first
thickness, and where the at least one flexible wire has a distal portion with a third
thickness, where the third thickness is greater than the first thickness.
[008]       In one aspect, the second thickness is equal to the third thickness, wherein
the thickness of the flexible wire tapers from the distal portion to the middle portion;
and wherein the thickness of the flexible wire tapers from the proximal portion to the
middle portion.
                                              -2-

[009]        In one aspect, the at least one flexible wire has a width that is constant from
the proximal portion to the distal portion.
[0010]       In one aspect, the at least one flexible wire has a width that tapers from the
proximal portion to the middle portion, and wherein the width tapers from the distal
portion to the middle portion.
[0011]       In one aspect, the flexible wire assembly comprises a brush-shaped flexible
wire assembly, wherein the distal end of each flexible wire is unattached to an adjacent
flexible wire.
[0012]       In one aspect, the plurality of flexible wires comprises at least one flexible
wire with a first width and at least one flexible wire with a second width, wherein the
second width is greater than the first width.
[0013]       In one aspect, the plurality of flexible wires comprises at least one flexible
wire with a third width, wherein the third width is greater than the second width.
[0014]       In one aspect, the plurality of flexible wires comprises at least one flexible
wire with a thickness, wherein the thickness is a constant thickness along a length of the
flexible wires.
[0015]       In one aspect, the plurality of the flexible wires comprises at least one
flexible wire with a variable thickness, wherein the variable thickness tapers from a first
thickness at the proximal portion of the flexible wire to a second thickness at the distal
portion of the flexible wire.
[0016]       In one aspect, the plurality of flexible wires comprise a proximal portion
with a first width and a distal portion with a second width; wherein the first width is
greater than the second width; and wherein the width tapers along a length of the
plurality of flexible wires from the proximal portion having the first width to the distal
portion having the second width.
[0017]       In one aspect, the plurality of flexible wires comprise a proximal portion
with a first thickness and a distal portion with a second thickness; wherein the first
thickness is greater than the second thickness; and wherein the thickness tapers along a
                                               -3-

length of the plurality of flexible wires from the proximal portion having the first
thickness to the distal portion having the second thickness.
[0018]       In one aspect, the shape memory material comprises a nickel titanium alloy.
[0019]       The present disclosure is also directed to a method for forming a catheter
including forming an elongate catheter body, forming a flexible wire assembly from a
shape memory material, the flexible wire assembly having a plurality of flexible wires,
wherein the plurality of flexible wires has a variable cross-section, heating the flexible
wire assembly to heat set the flexible wire assembly, connecting a plurality of electrodes
and cabling to each of the plurality of flexible wires to form a multi-electrode assembly
and connecting the multi-electrode assembly to a distal end of the elongate catheter
body.
[0020]       In one aspect, the multi-electrode assembly is a brush-shaped electrode
assembly.
[0021]       In one aspect, the plurality of flexible wires has a first width at a proximal
portion and a second width at a distal portion, wherein the width tapers from the first
width at the proximal portion toward the second width at the distal portion.
[0022]       In one aspect, the plurality of flexible wires has at least one flexible wire
with a first width, and at least one flexible wire with a second width; wherein the second
width is greater than the first width.
[0023]       In one aspect, the plurality of flexible wires has at least one flexible wire
with a third width, the third width greater than the second width.
                      BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0024]       Further features and advantages will become apparent from the following
and more particular description of the preferred embodiments of the disclosure, as
illustrated in the accompanying drawings, which are not drawn to scale, and in which
like referenced characters generally refer to the same parts or elements throughout the
views, and in which:
                                               -4-

[0025]      FIG. 1 is a schematic view of a catheter of the present invention, according
to one embodiment.
[0026]      FIGS. 2A and 2B are schematic views of a brush-shaped flexible wire
assembly, according to one embodiment.
[0027]      FIGS. 3A and 3B are schematic views of another flexible wire assembly,
according to one embodiment.
[0028]      FIG. 4 is a detailed view of a basket-shaped multi-electrode assembly,
according to another embodiment.
[0029]      FIGS. 5A and 5B are schematic view of a portion of a basket-shaped flexible
wire assembly, according to the embodiment of FIG. 4.
[0030]      FIG. 6 is a schematic illustration of an invasive medical procedure using a
multi-electrode assembly, according to one embodiment.
                                 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0031]      At the outset, it is to be understood that this disclosure is not limited to
particularly exemplified materials, architectures, routines, methods or structures as such
may vary. Thus, although a number of such options, similar or equivalent to those
described herein, can be used in the practice or embodiments of this disclosure, the
preferred materials and methods are described herein.
[0032]      It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose
of describing particular embodiments of this disclosure only and is not intended to be
limiting.
[0033]      The detailed description set forth below in connection with the appended
drawings is intended as a description of exemplary embodiments of the present
disclosure and is not intended to represent the only exemplary embodiments in which
the present disclosure can be practiced. The term "exemplary" used throughout this
description means "serving as an example, instance, or illustration," and should not
necessarily be construed as preferred or advantageous over other exemplary
                                               -5-

embodiments. The detailed description includes specific details for the purpose of
providing a thorough understanding of the exemplary embodiments of the specification.
It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the exemplary embodiments of the
specification may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances, well
known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid
obscuring the novelty of the exemplary embodiments presented herein.
[0034]      For purposes of convenience and clarity only, directional terms, such as top,
bottom, left, right, up, down, over, above, below, beneath, rear, back, and front, may be
used with respect to the accompanying drawings. These and similar directional terms
should not be construed to limit the scope of the disclosure in any manner.
[0035]      Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have
the same meaning as commonly understood by one having ordinary skill in the art to
which the disclosure pertains.
[0036]      Finally, as used in this specification and the appended claims, the singular
forms "a, "an" and "the" include plural referents unless the content clearly dictates
otherwise.
[0037]      Multi-electrode assemblies are often used within the heart chamber to
analyze or map the electrical activity. It is desirable to collect this data as quickly as
possible to decrease the procedure time as well as to limit the stress on the patient.
Medical devices with multiple electrodes distributed amongst multiple spines have been
developed to shorten this procedure time. The increase in the number of spines to
accommodate the electrodes has created an opportunity to better control the placement
and relative stiffness of the spines as they are deployed and used at the treatment site.
According to the techniques of this disclosure, the spines of a basket-shaped or brush
shaped multi-electrode assembly are configured to have differing dimensions along the
spinal support to control the movement of the spines and to maintain electrode contact
with the tissue during the procedure.
[0038]      Referring now to FIG. 1, catheter 10 comprises an elongated catheter body
12 having proximal and distal ends and a control handle 14 at the proximal end of the
catheter body. Catheter 10 further comprises an electrode assembly 16 at the distal end
                                               -6-

of catheter body 12. Electrode assembly 16 is a multi-electrode assembly comprising a
plurality of spines. In one embodiment, as shown in FIG. 1, electrode assembly 16 is a
brush-shaped electrode assembly 16 having a plurality of spines 18, each carrying
multiple electrodes 20, and mounted at the distal end of the catheter body 12. In another
embodiment, as discussed below and shown in FIG. 4, electrode assembly 16 comprises
a basket-shaped electrode assembly. Catheter body 12 comprises an elongated tubular
construction having a single, axial or central lumen 26, but can optionally have multiple
lumens if desired. To enable accurate mapping of electrical signals, it may be desirable
to provide an array of electrodes with a relatively high density. As such, the number of
spines 18 employed may vary from four to sixteen, or any other suitable number. The
distal ends of spines 18 are separated from adjacent spines. Each spine 18 may include
multiple electrodes 20, such as at least six and up to approximately 16 electrodes per
spine, or any other number of electrodes to suit a particular application. Similarly, the
electrodes may be evenly distributed along the spine or may be skewed proximally,
centrally or distally to facilitate analysis of the measured electrical signals.
[0039]       Catheter body 12 is flexible, i.e., bendable, but substantially non
compressible along its length. Catheter body 12 can be of any suitable construction and
made of any suitable material. One construction comprises an outer wall made of
polyurethane or PEBAX* (polyether block amide). The outer wall comprises an
imbedded braided mesh of stainless steel or the like to increase torsional stiffness of the
catheter body 12 so that, when the control handle 14 is rotated, the distal end of the
catheter body will rotate in a corresponding manner. The outer diameter of the catheter
body 12 is not critical, but generally should be as small as possible and may be no more
than about 10 french depending on the desired application. In one aspect, the overall
diameter of the catheter body 12 may relate to the number of electrodes 20 implemented
by electrode assembly 16 in order to accommodate the associated electrical leads. For
example, a twelve-spine design with each spine carrying sixteen electrodes for a total of
192 electrodes, a ten-spine design with each spine carrying sixteen electrodes for a total
of 160 electrodes and an eight-spine design with each spine carrying sixteen electrodes
for a total of 128 electrodes may utilize up to a 10.0 french catheter body. Likewise the
thickness of the outer wall is not critical, but may be thin enough so that the central
lumen can accommodate lead wires, sensor cables and any other wires, cables or tubes.
                                               -7-

If desired, the inner surface of the outer wall is lined with a stiffening tube (not shown)
to provide improved torsional stability. An example of a catheter body construction
suitable for use in connection with the present invention is described and depicted in
U.S. Pat. No. 6,064,905, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by
reference.
[0040]       Spines 18 include a shape memory material, as described below, that
facilitates assuming an expanded arrangement. When the brush-shaped electrode
assembly 16 is deployed, it assumes an expanded configuration whereby the spines 18
expand in a generally planar fashion and into contact with the walls of the chamber in
which it has been deployed, such as the left atrium.
[0041]       In one aspect, an electrophysiologist may introduce a guiding sheath 24,
guidewire and dilator into the patient, as is generally known in the art. As an example, a
suitable guiding sheath for use in connection with the inventive catheter is a 10 french
DiRex TM Guiding Sheath (commercially available from BARD, Murray Hill, NJ). The
guidewire is inserted, the dilator is removed, and the catheter is introduced through the
guiding sheath whereby the guidewire lumen 26 permits the catheter to pass over the
guidewire. In one exemplary procedure, the catheter is first introduced to the right
atrium (RA) via the inferior vena cava (IVC), where it passes through the septum (S) in
order to reach the left atrium (LA).
[0042]       As will be appreciated, the guiding sheath 24 covers the spines 18 of the
multi-electrode assembly 16 in a collapsed delivery position so that the entire catheter
can be passed through the patient's vasculature to the desired location. Once the distal
end of the catheter reaches the desired location, e.g., the left atrium, the guiding sheath
is withdrawn to expose the multi-electrode assembly 16. Upon withdrawal of the
guiding sheath, the shape memory material of the multi-electrode assembly expands the
device within the chamber. With the electrode assembly 16 expanded, the ring
electrodes 20 contact atrial tissue. As recognized by one skilled in the art, the electrode
assembly 16 may be fully or partially expanded, straight or deflected, in a variety of
configurations depending on the configuration of the region of the heart being mapped
or treated.
                                              -8-

[0043]        When the electrode assembly 16 is expanded, the electrophysiologist may
map local activation time and/or ablate using electrodes 20, which can guide the
electrophysiologist in diagnosing and providing therapy to the patient. The catheter
may include one or more reference ring electrodes mounted on the catheter body and/or
one or more reference electrodes may be placed outside the body of the patient. By
using the catheter with the multiple electrodes on the brush-shaped electrode assembly,
the electrophysiologist can map the selected region of the heart. The embodiment
described above utilized a plurality of ring electrodes. In another embodiment, the
multi-electrode assembly uses a plurality of printed circuit board (PCB) electrodes. In
this embodiment, the PCB electrodes may be positioned on any portion of the spines
that may contact the tissue to be treated. For example, the PCB electrode may be on a
first side, a second side or both the first and second side of the spine. The location of
the PCB may be dependent on the application of the particular device.
[0044]        The brush-shaped electrode assembly 16, as shown in FIG. 1, features a total
of eight spines 18, each carrying ten electrodes 20. In other embodiments, different
numbers of spines 18 and/or electrodes 20 may be employed, each of which may be
evenly or unevenly distributed as desired. The proximal ends of the spines 18 may be
secured to the distal end 32 of the catheter body 12. Lumen 26 may be used as a
guidewire lumen. In some embodiments, lumen 26 may also be used to supply a
suitable irrigation fluid, such as heparinized saline, to the electrode assembly 16. A
fitting (not shown) in the control handle 14 may be provided to conduct irrigation fluid
from a suitable source or pump into the lumen 26.
[0045]        Each spine 18 may include cabling with built-in or embedded lead wires for
the electrodes 20 carried by the spine. The cabling has a core, and a plurality of
generally similar wires each covered by an insulating layer that enables each wire to be
formed and to function as a conductor. The core provides a lumen in which can pass
other components such as a support structure in the form of flexible wire 28, discussed
in further detail below, and/or additional lead wire(s), cables, tubing or other
components. Cabling suitable for use with the present invention is described in U.S.
Application Serial No. 13/860,921, filed April 11, 2013, entitled HIGH DENSITY
ELECTRODE STRUCTURE, and U.S. Application Serial No. 14/063,477, filed
October 25, 2013, entitled CONNECTION OF ELECTRODES TO WIRES COILED
                                               -9-

ON A CORE, the entire disclosures of which have been incorporated above. Each
cabling (with embedded lead wires) may extend to the control handle 14 for suitable
electrical connection of wires, thereby allowing signals measured by electrodes 20 to be
detected.
[0046]       Each spine 18 may comprise a flexible wire 28 support with a non
conductive covering 30 on which one or more of the ring electrodes 20 are mounted.
Each ring electrodes 20 may be configured as monopolar or bipolar, as known in the art.
In an embodiment, the flexible wires 28 may be formed from a shape memory material
to facilitate the transition between expanded (deployed) and collapsed (delivery)
configurations and the non-conductive coverings 30 may each comprise biocompatible
plastic tubing, such as polyurethane or polyimide tubing. A plurality of flexible wires
28 may be joined to form a flexible wire assembly. The embodiments of the flexible
wire assembly 29, illustrated below in FIGS. 2A to 5B, provide an improvement to the
control and stability of the multi-electrode device as the spines contact the tissue to be
mapped and/or treated.
[0047]       FIGS. 2A and 2B illustrate one embodiment of an improved flexible wire
assembly 29. Flexible wire assembly 29 comprises a plurality of flexible wires 28. In
one embodiment, flexible wire assembly 29 is composed of nitinol, a nickel-titanium
alloy. In one embodiment, flexible wire assembly 29 is manufactured from a single
sheet of nitinol alloy. In another embodiment, flexible wire assembly 29 is
manufactured from a single tube of nitinol alloy and formed into the brush shape. The
nitinol alloy may be laser cut and/or drilled to form the brush-shaped pattern. In yet
other embodiments, individual flexible wires 28 are manufactured and then joined
together at their proximal ends to form the flexible wire assembly. In each of these
embodiments, the proximal ends of the flexible wires 28 are joined to a distal end 32 of
catheter 12.
[0048]       As mentioned above, the flexible wire assembly 29 is composed of nitinol
alloy, a shape memory material. During manufacture, the flexible wire assembly is heat
set into a "memorized" shape, which is also referred to as the deployed shape or
deployed configuration. At body temperature, nitinol wire is flexible and elastic and,
like most shape memory metals, nitinol wires deform when subjected to minimal force
                                            -10-

and return to their shape in the absence of that force. During manufacture, the nitinol
material is heated and formed into the desired shape. This shape is then heat set, as is
known in the art. The brush-shaped electrode assembly 16 will have a three
dimensional shape that can be collapsed (deformed) to be placed into a guiding sheath
and then returned to its expanded shape memory configuration upon delivery to the
desired region of the patient upon release from the guiding sheath. One of ordinary skill
in the art will recognize that other shape memory materials may be used in place of the
nitinol alloy, for example, other shape memory metals and shape memory polymers.
[0049]       As mentioned above in describing FIG. 1, the flexible wire assembly 29
provides a supporting structure for the spines 18 and the electrodes 20 carried on those
spines. However, to improve the function of multi-electrode devices over that of the
prior art, the inventor has determined that varying the dimensions and shape of the cross
sections of the flexible wire assembly will offer better tissue contact and control of the
spines carrying the electrodes. FIG. 2A illustrates a flexible wire assembly having
flexible wires 28 that have different widths. In this embodiment, the width W of the
flexible wires 28 increases from a first width W 1 for the flexible wires 28A positioned
closer to a center line CL, to an intermediate second width W 2 for the flexible wires 28B
that are positioned further from the center line, and then to a maximum width W 3 for the
flexible wires 28C that are positioned furthest from the center line. In this embodiment,
the particular width (WI, W2 or W 3 ) of each flexible wire is maintained along the
length of each flexible wire 28 as the flexible wire extends from a catheter attachment
portion 40 to a distal end 42 of the flexible wire 28. Each flexible wire 28 further
comprises a transition portion 44 that extends distally from the catheter attachment
portion 40 to the proximal end 46 of each flexible wire. The width of the transition
portion 44 of each flexible wire generally has a width that is approximately equal to the
width of the respective flexible wire 28. The length and curvature of the transition
portions 44 vary depending on the position of the flexible wire 28. Generally, the
transition portion 44 increases in length and curvature as the flexible wire 28 position is
further from the center line CL. For example, those flexible wires 28A that are closer to
the center line CL have a relatively short and straight transition portion 44A, those
flexible wires 28B that are of an intermediate distance may be slightly longer and have a
more pronounced curve, and the outer flexible wires 28C have a longer transition
                                             -11-

portion that curves substantially from the catheter attachment portion 40. The increase
in width of the flexible wire and transition portion for those flexible wires that are
positioned away from the center line CL increases the stability of the flexible wire as
they bend away from the center line to form the brush-shaped spines that are on the
periphery of the multi-electrode device 16.
[0050]       FIG. 2B illustrates a side view of the flexible wire assembly 29 shown in
FIG. 2A. FIG. 2B illustrates the thickness T of the flexible wires 28. In this
embodiment, the thickness T is consistent for all of the flexible wires 28A to 28C and
from the proximal end 46 to the distal end 42 of each flexible wire 28. However, the
ratio of width to thickness in the flexible wires 28 increases from the narrowest flexible
wire 28A to the widest flexible wire 28C. The width of the flexible spines may range
from 0.005 inch to 0.020 inch. The thickness may range from 0.004" to0.020". The
ratio of width to thickness may range from 1:1 to 4:1, or higher depending on the
application of the particular device. As illustrated the ratios of the spines may be 1.1:1
for flexible wires 28A, 1.5:1 for flexible wires 28B and 2:1 for flexible wires 28C. The
resultant cross-sectional shape of the flexible wires with these ratios would range from a
square to a rectangle. It should be noted that the embodiment described in FIG. 2A is
merely illustrative, that the device may have more than six flexible wires and that the
flexible wire assembly may have more, or less, than the three ratios depicted across the
plurality of flexible wires. Those with ordinary skill will also appreciate that the ratio
of width to thickness will depend on a number of factors, such as, the particular
application of the device and the total number of spines included on the device. In the
embodiment illustrated in FIGS. 2A and 2B, the increase in ratio of width to thickness
of the flexible wires 28A, 28B, 28C as the position moves away from the center line CL
provides an increase in stiffness to the flexible wire 28 to better stabilize those spines 18
that are further from the center of the deployed electrode device 16.
[0051]        Referring now to FIGS. 3A and 3B, FIG. 3A is another embodiment of a
flexible wire assembly 129 having a variable cross section. In this embodiment, the
cross section tapers from a first width W 11 at the proximal end 146 of flexible wire 128
to a width W12 at the distal end 142 of the flexible wire. The difference in width from
WI Ito W12 may be from 0.001" to 0.015". The increase in width for W 11 provides a
stiffer base portion to better support the spine and electrodes that cover the flexible wire
                                             -12-

assembly 129. The narrower width W12 at distal end 142 will increase the flexibility of
the distal portion of the device and provide better electrode 20 contact with the tissue to
be treated. The stiffness of the proximal end 146 and flexibility of the distal end 142
may be further increased by adjusting the thickness T of the flexible wires 128. FIG. 3B
illustrates a side view of flexible wire 129 showing the thickness T. The flexible wire
128 may have a variable thickness of about 0.004" to 0.020". In one embodiment, the
thickness of the flexible wires 128 tapers from a first thickness TI to a second thickness
T2. Similar to the difference in width discussed above, the difference in thickness T
may be from about 0.001 to about 0.015". In another embodiment, the thickness does
not vary along the length L where TI is equal to T2.      The embodiment of flexible wire
assembly 129 illustrated in FIGS. 3A to 3B is similar in all other aspects to that of
flexible wire assembly 29 illustrated in FIGS. 2A to 2B, above.
[0052]       Referring now to FIG. 4, FIG. 4 illustrates a basket-shaped electrode
assembly 216 suitable for using with a catheter such as catheter 12 shown in FIG. 1,
above. Basket-shaped electrode assembly 216 is a multi-electrode assembly comprising
a plurality of spines. In this embodiment, electrode assembly 216 is a basket-shaped
electrode assembly 216 having a plurality of spines 218, each carrying multiple
electrodes 220. To enable accurate mapping of electrical signals, it may be desirable to
provide an array of electrodes with a relatively high density. As such, the number of
spines 218 employed may vary from four to sixteen, or any other suitable number. The
distal ends of spines 218 are separated from adjacent spines. Each spine 218 may
include multiple electrodes 220, such as at least six and up to approximately sixteen
electrodes per spine, or any other number of electrodes to suit a particular application.
Similarly, the electrodes may be evenly distributed along the spine or may be skewed
proximally, centrally or distally to facilitate analysis of the measured electrical signals.
The distal ends of spines 218 are joined together at a distal hub 222. Distal hub 222
may take any form to suit a particular application. In one embodiment, distal hub 222 is
a generally circular and flat structure to allow for more of the electrodes 220 to contact
the tissue to be mapped or treated. In another embodiment, distal hub 222 is a columnar
shape having spines joining the distal hub at a plurality of insertion points. Spines 218
may be evenly or unevenly distributed radially about distal hub 222. Spines 218 include
a shape memory material, as described above, that facilitates assuming an expanded
                                              -13-

arrangement. When the basket-shaped electrode assembly 216 is deployed, it assumes
an expanded configuration whereby the spines 218 bow outwards into contact or closer
proximity with the walls of the chamber in which it has been deployed, such as the left
atrium.
[0053]       Each spine 218 may comprise a flexible wire 228 support with a non
conductive covering 230 on which one or more of the ring electrodes 220 are mounted.
Each ring electrodes 220 may be configured as monopolar or bipolar, as known in the
art.  In an embodiment, the flexible wires 228 may be formed from a shape memory
material to facilitate the transition between expanded (deployed) and collapsed
(delivery) configurations and the non-conductive coverings 230 may each comprise
biocompatible plastic tubing, such as polyurethane or polyimide tubing. A plurality of
flexible wires 28 may be joined to form a flexible wire assembly, discussed in more
detail below in relation to FIG. 5A and 5B.
[0054]      As used herein, the term "basket-shaped" in describing the electrode
assembly 216 is not limited to the depicted configuration, but can include other designs,
such as spherical or egg-shaped designs, that include a plurality of expandable arms or
spines connected, directly or indirectly, at their proximal and distal ends. In one aspect,
different sized basket-shaped electrode assemblies may be employed depending on the
patient's anatomy to provide a close fit to the area of the patient being investigated, such
as the right or left atria. Other shapes for electrode assembly 216 are contemplated by
the present invention.
[0055]      As with the brush-shaped multi-electrode assembly illustrated and described
in detailed, above, the underlying flexible wire assembly support for the basket-shaped
multi-electrode will also benefit from improvements to the cross-section of the flexible
wires that make up the flexible wire assembly. Further, the cross-sectional shape
generally is square or rectangular. This shape also aids in the improved control and
movement of the spines and electrodes.
[0056]       Referring now to FIGS. 5A and 5B, FIGS. 5A and 5B illustrates a flexible
wire 228 of the flexible wire assembly 229 with a variable cross-section. In one
embodiment, the thickness T of the flexible wire 228 varies from a first thickness TI
near the middle of the flexible wire 228 to a second thickness T2 adjacent the proximal
                                             -14-

end 246 of flexible wire 228. Flexible wire 228 may have a third thickness T3 located
near the hub 222. FIG. 5B illustrates a straightened flexible wire 228 to better show the
variable thicknesses. In this embodiment, the thickness of the flexible wire 228 tapers
from thickness T3 at the distal end 242 towards the middle and also from thickness T2
at the proximal end 246 to the middle. In one embodiment thickness T2 is equal to
thickness T3. The thickness of the flexible wire 228 ranges from 0.006" to 0.012". The
difference in thickness from TI to T2/T3 may be about 0.001 to about 0.006". In one
embodiment, the width of the flexible wire remains essentially constant from the
proximal end 246 to the distal end 242. In another embodiment, the width also varies
similarly to the thickness. The dimensions of the width may be from 0.004" to 0.015".
[0057]      One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that elements of each of the
embodiments described above for FIGS. 2A to 5B may be combined with other
elements from other embodiments and these combinations are within the scope of the
invention. The following discussion of FIG. 6 also applies to each of the above
described embodiments.
[0058]      To help illustrate use of multi-electrode assembly 16, FIG. 6 is a schematic
depiction of an invasive medical procedure, according to an embodiment of the present
invention. Catheter 10, with electrode assembly 16 (See FIG. 1) at the distal end may
have a connector 60 at the proximal end for coupling the wires from their respective
electrodes 20 (See FIG. 1) to a console 62 for recording and analyzing the signals they
detect. An electrophysiologist 64 may insert the catheter 10 into a patient 66 in order to
acquire electropotential signals from the heart 68 of the patient. The professional uses
the control handle 14 attached to the catheter in order to perform the insertion. Console
62 may include a processing unit 70 which analyzes the received signals, and which
may present results of the analysis on a display 72 attached to the console. The results
are typically in the form of a map, numerical displays, and/or graphs derived from the
signals.
[0059]      In a further aspect, the processing unit 70 may also receive signals from one
or more location sensors 74 provided near a distal end of the catheter 10 adjacent the
electrode assembly 16. The sensor(s) may each comprise a magnetic-field-responsive
coil or a plurality of such coils. Using a plurality of coils enables six-dimensional
                                             -15-

position and orientation coordinates to be determined. The sensors may therefore
generate electrical position signals in response to the magnetic fields from external
coils, thereby enabling processor 70 to determine the position, (e.g., the location and
orientation) of the distal end of catheter 10 within the heart cavity. The
electrophysiologist may then view the position of the electrode assembly 16 on an
image the patient's heart on the display 72. By way of example, this method of position
sensing may be implemented using the CARTOTM system, produced by Biosense
Webster Inc. (Diamond Bar, Calif.) and is described in detail in U.S. Pat. Nos.
5,391,199, 6,690,963, 6,484,118, 6,239,724, 6,618,612 and 6,332,089, in PCT Patent
Publication WO 96/005768, and in U.S. Patent Application Publications 2002/0065455
Al, 2003/0120150 Al and 2004/0068178 Al, whose disclosures are all incorporated
herein by reference. As will be appreciated, other location sensing techniques may also
be employed. If desired, at least two location sensors may be positioned proximally and
distally of the electrode assembly 16. The coordinates of the distal sensor relative to the
proximal sensor may be determined and, with other known information pertaining to the
spines 18 of the electrode assembly 16, used to find the positions of each of the
electrodes 20.
[0060]            The preceding description has been presented with reference to presently
disclosed embodiments of the invention. Workers skilled in the art and technology to
which this invention pertains will appreciate that alterations and changes in the
described structure may be practiced without meaningfully departing from the principal,
spirit and scope of this invention. As understood by one of ordinary skill in the art, the
drawings are not necessarily to scale. Accordingly, the foregoing description should not
be read as pertaining only to the precise structures described and illustrated in the
accompanying drawings, but rather should be read consistent with and as support to the
following claims which are to have their fullest and fair scope.
[0061]           In this specification, the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprising" or
similar terms are intended to mean a non-exclusive inclusion, such that a system,
method or apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include those elements
solely, but may well include other elements not listed
                                               -16-

[0062]      The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be
taken as, an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of
the common general knowledge in Australia.
                                            -17-

                                           CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1.      A catheter comprising:
         an elongated catheter body extending along a longitudinal axis, the elongated
catheter body having a proximal end and a distal end;
         a flexible wire assembly positioned at the distal end of the elongated catheter
body formed from a shape memory material, the flexible wire assembly having a
plurality of flexible wires, each flexible wire having a proximal end and a distal end and
wherein at least one of the flexible wires has a variable cross-section;
         a plurality of spines formed from the plurality of flexible wires; and
         a plurality of electrodes and cabling attached to each spine.
2.       The catheter of claim 1, wherein the distal ends of the plurality of flexible wires
are joined at a distal hub to form a basket-shapes multi-electrode device.
3.       The catheter of claim 2, wherein the at least one flexible wire has a variable
thickness where a middle portion of the flexible wire has a first thickness and a
proximal portion of the flexible wire has a second thickness, wherein the second
thickness is greater than the first thickness.
4.       The catheter of claim 3, wherein the at least one flexible wire has a distal portion
with a third thickness, wherein the third thickness is greater than the first thickness.
5.          The catheter of claim 4, wherein the second thickness is equal to the third
thickness, wherein the thickness of the flexible wire tapers from the distal portion to the
middle portion; and wherein the thickness of the flexible wire tapers from the proximal
portion to the middle portion.
6.       The catheter of claim 4, wherein the at least one flexible wire has a width that is
constant from the proximal portion to the distal portion.
                                             -18-

7.      The catheter of claim 4 wherein the at least one flexible wire has a width that
tapers from the proximal portion to the middle portion, and wherein the width tapers
from the distal portion to the middle portion.
8.      The catheter of claim 1, wherein the flexible wire assembly comprises a brush
shaped flexible wire assembly, wherein the distal end of each flexible wire is unattached
to an adjacent flexible wire.
9.      The catheter of claim 8, wherein the plurality of flexible wires comprises at least
one flexible wire with a first width and at least one flexible wire with a second width,
wherein the second width is greater than the first width.
10.     The catheter of claim 9, wherein the plurality of flexible wires comprises at least
one flexible wire with a third width, wherein the third width is greater than the second
width.
11.     The catheter of claim 9, wherein the plurality of flexible wires comprises at least
one flexible wire with a thickness, wherein the thickness is a constant thickness along a
length of the flexible wires.
12.     The catheter of claim 9, wherein the plurality of the flexible wires comprises at
least one flexible wire with a variable thickness, wherein the variable thickness tapers
from a first thickness at the proximal portion of the flexible wire to a second thickness
at the distal portion of the flexible wire.
13.     The catheter of claim 8, wherein the plurality of flexible wires comprise a
proximal portion with a first width and a distal portion with a second width; wherein the
first width is greater than the second width; and wherein the width tapers along a length
of the plurality of flexible wires from the proximal portion having the first width to the
distal portion having the second width.
                                             -19-

14.      The catheter of claim 13, wherein the plurality of flexible wires comprise a
proximal portion with a first thickness and a distal portion with a second thickness;
wherein the first thickness is greater than the second thickness; and wherein the
thickness tapers along a length of the plurality of flexible wires from the proximal
portion having the first thickness to the distal portion having the second thickness.
15.      The catheter of claim 1, wherein the shape memory material comprises a nickel
titanium alloy.
16.     A method for forming a catheter comprising:
         forming an elongate catheter body;
         forming a flexible wire assembly from a shape memory material, the flexible
wire assembly having a plurality of flexible wires, wherein the plurality of flexible
wires has a variable cross-section;
         heating the flexible wire assembly to heat set the flexible wire assembly;
         connecting a plurality of electrodes and cabling to each of the plurality of
flexible wires to form a multi-electrode assembly; and
         connecting the multi-electrode assembly to a distal end of the elongate catheter
body.
17.      The method of claim 16, wherein the multi-electrode assembly is a brush-shaped
electrode assembly.
18.      The method of claim 17, wherein the plurality of flexible wires has a first width
at a proximal portion and a second width at a distal portion, wherein the width tapers
from the first width at the proximal portion toward the second width at the distal
portion.
19.      The method of claim 17, wherein the plurality of flexible wires has at least one
flexible wire with a first width, and at least one flexible wire with a second width;
wherein the second width is greater than the first width.
                                             -20-

20.     The method of claim 19, wherein the plurality of flexible wires has at least one
flexible wire with a third width, the third width greater than the second width.
                                            -21-

                                   <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
     10
12
                                       14
                          18 30
                    28
          32                                             1/4
                             28
               26
                              20
                             16
                         FIG. 1

                                                       2/4
<removed-date>
                               28C
                                     28B 28A      W1              W3
               42                                       W2
                                                                                   T
                                                                    46
<removed-apn>
                    46                                                             28
                         44B
                                                                   44C
                               44A                           46
                                                   40
                                                  CL                         FIG. 2B
                                       FIG. 2A
                                                                                        129
              129
                                     142                     W12                  T2
                    128
                                                                  128
                    L                                                    L
                                                             W11
                                                                                   T1
                    146
                                                                             FIG. 3B
                                        FIG. 3A

                                     3/4
<removed-date>
               216
                                           222
                                                  228
                                                        218
<removed-apn>
                                                          220
                                                              230
                                                  229
                12
                          26
                                                                    242
                               FIG. 4
                                                          T3
                     T3        228
              242
                                     T1                  T1
              246                                        T2
                          T2                246
              FIG. 5A                             FIG. 5B

                           <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
                64
     68    10
                     14                  72
66                        60
                                    62
                                                      4/4
                                        70
      FIG. 6

