H:\jr\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\LJR\ 17039940 1.docx-23/05/2018
                                                                 -51
                                                              ABSTRACT
A monitoring system for monitoring a machine, the monitoring system including at least one
monitoring device and one or more processing systems. The monitoring device includes a
housing, a coupling that physically attaches the housing to the machine, a plurality of
sensors, the plurality of sensors including a vibration sensor that senses vibration transmitted
from the machine to the vibration sensor at least in part via the coupling, a monitoring device
processor that acquires sensors signals from the plurality of sensors and generates sensor data
at least partially in accordance with signals from the sensors, and a transmitter that transmits
the sensor data. The one or more processing systems receive the sensor data, analyse the
sensor data to determine a machine status and either store an indication of the machine status
as part of machine status data associated with respective machine or cause a status indication
indicative of the machine status to be displayed.
Fig. 1

            1/13
                  E
110
      1120
    130
           Fig. 1

H:\EVK\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\17039940_1.doex-23/05/2018
                                                      MACHINE MONITORING
Related Applications
10001a]This              application           is     a     divisional of International Patent Application No.
PCT/AU2017/050244 filed on 17 March 2017, the entire content of which is incorporated
herein by reference.
Background of the Invention
10001] The present invention relates to a method and apparatus for machine monitoring, and
in one example to a method and apparatus using a monitoring device that physically attaches
to the machine.
Description of the Prior Art
[0002] The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived
from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an
acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that the prior publication (or
information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge
in the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.
[0003] Monitoring of machines, such as pumps is often performed in order to monitor
operation, and in particular to ensure the machine is operating correctly and has not failed.
Such monitoring is typically performed on an ad-hoc basis through a process of visual
inspections and routine maintanence. However, this is not always a practical solution. For
example, the water industry within the Australian context suffers from the 'tyranny of
distance', in which a machine is generally spread across broad geographic expanses. As a
result, Sydney Water undertakes over 10,000 manual machine inspections for machine
condition monitoring. Manual inspections are therefore costly, time consuming and irregular.
[0004] Assets are generally classified into a tiered system, where low value/low impact
machines are considered uneconomical to conduct condition monitoring. The next class of
assets are regularly inspected (typically monthly), and finally high value/high impact
machinery where 'online' monitoring or real time monitoring is installed (this is typically the

H: \EVK\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\17039940_l.docx-23/05/2018
                                                               -2
top 5% of machinery). In such situations, custom sensor suites are developed and installed for
each machine, with alerts being sent once a day.                  Such systems typically cost several
thousand dollars per machine, with the largest costs being the installation and setup which
has to be conducted by a trained engineer. These systems require permits, paperwork and
cabling.
Summary of the Present Invention
[0005] In one broad form, an aspect of the present invention seeks to provide a monitoring
system for monitoring a machine, the monitoring system including: at least one monitoring
device that magnetically attaches to the machine, and which includes a vibration sensor that
senses vibration transmitted from the machine; and, one or more processing systems that
analyse sensor data from the vibration sensor to determine a machine status.
 [0006] In one embodiment, the monitoring system includes at least one monitoring device
that magnetically attaches to the machine, and which includes a vibration sensor that senses
vibration transmitted from the machine, wherein sensor data from the vibration sensor is
analysed to determine a machine status.
 [0007] In one embodiment, the monitoring system includes one or more processing devices
that receive sensor data from a vibration sensor forming part of at least one monitoring
device that magnetically attaches to the machine, and wherein the one or more processing
systems analyse sensor data from the vibration sensor to determine a machine status.
 [0008] In one embodiment, the monitoring device includes a temperature sensor and the one
or more processing systems analyse sensor data from the temperature sensor to determine a
machine status.
[0009] In one embodiment, the monitoring device includes a transmitter that transmits the
sensor data, allowing the sensor data to be transferred via a communications network.
 [0010] In a further broad form, an aspect of the present invention seeks to provide a
monitoring system for monitoring a machine, the monitoring system including: at least one
monitoring device including: a housing; a coupling that physically attaches the housing to the

H:\EVK\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\17039940_1.docx-23/05/2018
                                                              -3
machine; a plurality of sensors, the plurality of sensors including a vibration sensor that
senses vibration transmitted from the machine to the vibration sensor at least in part via the
coupling; a monitoring device processor that: acquires sensor signals from the plurality of
sensors; and, generates sensor data at least partially in accordance with signals from the
sensors; a transmitter that transmits the sensor data; and, one or more processing systems
that: receive the sensor data; analyse the sensor data to determine a machine status; and, at
least one of: store an indication of the machine status as part of machine status data
associated with the respective machine; and cause a status indication indicative of the
machine status to be displayed.
[0011] In one embodiment, the vibration sensor includes a microphone acoustically coupled
to the machine at least in part via a rigid mechanical coupling member.
[0012] In one embodiment, the microphone is provided adjacent a first end of a cavity and
the rigid coupling member includes a projection extending from the housing to a second end
of the cavity, to thereby couple vibrations to the microphone via the cavity.
[0013] In one embodiment, the cavity is an opening provided in a circuit board, the
microphone being mounted on the circuit board.
[0014] In one embodiment, the microphone is a microelectromechanical                microphone
provided in a housing having an opening facing the cavity.
 [0015] In one embodiment, the projection includes: an isolation member in abutment with
the circuit board to isolate the cavity from external noise; and, a flattened tip extending into
the cavity, such that movement of the tip generates pressure fluctuations within the cavity,
the pressure fluctuations corresponding to the vibrations.
 [0016] In one embodiment, at least one of a microphone housing and the cavity are filled
with an acoustic gel.
 [0017] In one embodiment, the housing includes: a base; and, a cap coupled to the base.
 [0018] In one embodiment, the housing includes a sealing member positioned between the
base and the cap, so that the base and the cap sealingly engage.

H \EVK\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\17039940_1.docx-23/05/2018
                                                              -4
[0019] In one embodiment, the housing includes a channel extending around a perimeter of
the base, the sealing member being positioned in the channel, and the cap including a lip
shaped to conform with the channel and engage the seal.
 [0020] In one embodiment, the coupling includes a magnet fixed to the housing.
 [0021] In one embodiment, the coupling includes a cup containing the magnet so that the cup
engages the machine to thereby transmit vibrations from the machine to the housing.
 [0022] In one embodiment, the coupling includes a number of teeth that engage the machine
in use to thereby at least one of: assist in securing the monitoring device to the machine; and,
assist in transmitting vibrations from the machine to the monitoring device housing.
 [0023] In one embodiment, the coupling includes a surface shaped to conform to an outer
surface of the machine to thereby at least one of: assist in securing the monitoring device to
the machine; and, assist in transmitting vibrations from the machine to the monitoring device
housing.
 [0024] In one embodiment, the monitoring device includes at least one power supply.
 [0025] In one embodiment, the at least one power supply includes a turbine.
 [0026] In one embodiment, the turbine includes: a generator; a rotor positioned externally to
the housing and coupled to the generator; and, a plurality of rotor blades mounted on the
rotor and extending axially along and radially outwardly of an outer cylindrical surface of the
housing such that gaseous flow over the vanes rotates the rotor, thereby causing the generator
to generate power.
 [0027] In one embodiment, the sensor data includes at least one of: a monitoring device
identifier; signals from the sensors; and, one or more parameters derived from signals from
the sensors.
 [0028] In one embodiment, the monitoring device at least partially processes the sensor
signals.

H \EVK\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\17039940_1.docx-23/05/2018
                                                              -5
[0029] In one embodiment, the monitoring device at least partially processes the sensor
signals by at least one: filtering; amplifying; digitizing; and, parameterizing.
 [0030] In one embodiment, the plurality of sensors include at least one of: at least one current
sensor; a noise sensor; an acoustic sensor; a temperature sensor; a pressure sensor; a humidity
sensor; a movement sensor; and, an optical sensor.
 [0031] In one embodiment, the system: uses signals from one or more sensors during a first
time period to establish reference behavior for the machine; and, uses signals from the one or
more sensors and the reference behavior to determine a machine status.
 [0032] In one embodiment, the system: uses signals from one or more sensors to generate
reference data indicative of the reference behavior, the reference data being indicative of at
least one of: signals from the one or more sensors; parameters derived from signals from the
one or more sensors; patterns derived from signals from the one or more sensors; reference
thresholds derived from the signals from the one or more sensors; and, reference ranges
derived from the signals from the one or more sensors; and, determines a machine status at
least in part based on the reference data and signals from the one or more sensors.
 [0033] In one embodiment, the system: determines operational data using signals from the
one or more sensors, the operational data being based on at least one of: signals from the one
or more sensors; parameters derived from signals from the one or more sensors; and, patterns
derived from signals from the one or more sensors; and, compares the operational data to the
reference data.
 [0034] In one embodiment, the parameters include at least one of: a noise level; a noise
frequency; a temperature; a temperature change; a rate of temperature change; a vibration
frequency; a vibration magnitude; a vibration pattern; a vibration change; and, a rate of
vibration change.
 [0035] In one embodiment, the system assesses the machine status at least in part using
machine learning techniques.

H \EVK\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\17039940_l.docx-23/05/2018
                                                              -6
[0036] In one embodiment, the system uses machine learning techniques to: identify at least
one category of behavior for the machine from the reference behavior; and, determine the
machine status by analyzing signals from the one or more sensors to categorize a current
behavior based on the at least one category.
 [0037] In one embodiment, the system analyses signals from the one or more sensors with
respect to reference behavior determined during corresponding time intervals during which
the machine is expected to exhibit similar behavior.
 [0038] In one embodiment, the system: monitors changes in machine status over time; and, at
least one of: stores an indication of changes in machine status as part of machine status data
associated with respective machine; cause a status indication indicative of the change in
machine status to be displayed.
[0039] In one embodiment, the system: uses signals from one or more sensors during a
calibration time period when the monitoring device is attached to a calibration machine to
establish calibration data; and, using the calibration data to interpret signals from the sensors
when the monitoring device is attached to the machine.
[0040] In one embodiment, the one or more processing systems: determine an identifier of
the monitoring device; uses the identifier to retrieve calibration data; and, analyse the sensor
data at least in part using the calibration data.
[0041] In one embodiment, the system: analyses signals from the vibration and movement
sensors; and, uses signals from the movement sensor to dynamically calibrate the vibration
sensor.
[0042] In one embodiment, the system: determines a monitoring device integrity; and,
selectively generates an alert depending on results of the determination.
[0043] In one embodiment, the system: analyses signals from a humidity sensor to determine
changes in humidity within the housing; and, using changes in humidity to determine at least
one of: if the housing has been breached; and, if a housing seal has failed.
[0044] In one embodiment, the housing contains a desiccant.

H \EVK\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\17039940_1.docx-23/05/2018
                                                              -7
[0045] In one embodiment, the system: analyses signals from a light sensor to determine
changes in light levels within the housing; and, using changes in light levels to determine at
least one of: if the housing has been breached; and, if a housing seal has failed.
[0046] In one embodiment, the system determines if the monitoring device has been moved
by: analysing signals from a movement sensor to determine at least one of: movement; and, a
change in orientation; analysing signals from a microphone to determine a change in noise
levels; and, determine a wireless network signal strength to determine a change in position of
the transmitter relative to a receiver.
[0047] In one embodiment, the monitoring device includes an array of current sensors
mounted on a flexible substrate external of the housing, and wherein the flexible substrate is
adapted to be wound around a cable to thereby monitor current flows within the cable.
[0048] In one embodiment, the monitoring device includes a transducer for generating an
acoustic signal that is transmitted to the machine at least in part via the coupling to thereby
generate vibrations that can be detected by a monitoring device.
[0049] In one embodiment, the acoustic signal has a defined frequency to allow the acoustic
signal to be distinguished from vibrations of the machine.
[0050] In one embodiment, the acoustic signal is ultrasonic.
[0051] In one embodiment, the system includes two monitoring devices spaced apart along a
fluid pipe, and wherein the system monitors a speed of travel of the acoustic signal between
the two monitoring devices to thereby determine a flow of fluid within the pipe.
 [0052] In one embodiment, the system: analyses signals from an acoustic sensor to determine
changes in noise levels outside the housing; and, using changes in noise levels to determine at
least one of: changes in operation of remote machines; changes in a machine environment;
movement of the monitoring device; changes in operation of the monitoring device; and, if
the housing has been breached.
[0053] In one embodiment, the acoustic sensor is mounted in recess on an external surface of
the housing.

H \EVK\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\17039940_l.docx-23/05/2018
                                                              -8
[0054] In one embodiment, the system includes at least one hub that: receives sensor data
from a plurality of monitoring devices; and, transfers the sensor data to the one or more
processing devices via a communications network.
 [0055] In one embodiment, the hub and monitoring devices communicate using a short range
wireless communications protocol.
 [0056] In one broad form, an aspect of the present invention seeks to provide a monitoring
device for use in monitoring a machine, the monitoring device including: a housing; a
coupling that physically attaches the housing to the machine; a plurality of sensors, the
plurality of sensors including a vibration sensor that senses vibration of the machine
transmitted to the vibration sensor at least in part via the coupling; monitoring device
processor that generates sensor data in accordance with signals from the sensors; and, a
transmitter that transmits the sensor data, allowing the sensor data to be transferred via a
communications network.
 [0057] In one broad form, an aspect of the present invention seeks to provide a method for
monitoring a machine, the method including: receiving sensor data from a monitoring device
attached to the machine, the sensor data being generated at least in part based on signals from
a plurality of sensors, the plurality of sensors including a vibration sensor that senses
vibration of the machine transmitted to the monitoring device via a coupling; analysing the
sensor data to determine a machine status; and, at least one of: store an indication of the
machine status; and, cause an indication of a machine status to be displayed.
 [0058] In one embodiment, the method includes: using signals from one or more sensors to
generate reference data indicative of the reference behavior, the reference data being
indicative of at least one of: signals from the one or more sensors; parameters derived from
signals from the one or more sensors; patterns derived from signals from the one or more
sensors; reference thresholds derived from the signals from the one or more sensors; and,
reference ranges derived from the signals from the one or more sensors; and, determining a
machine status at least in part based on the reference data and signals from the one or more
sensors.

H \EVK\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\17039940_1.docx-23/05/2018
                                                              -9
[0059] In one embodiment, the method includes: determining operational data using signals
from the one or more sensors, the operational data being based on at least one of: signals
from the one or more sensors; parameters derived from signals from the one or more sensors;
and, patterns derived from signals from the one or more sensors; and, comparing the
operational data to the reference data.
 [0060] In one embodiment, the parameters include at least one of: a noise level; a noise
frequency; a temperature; a temperature change; a rate of temperature change; a vibration
frequency; a vibration magnitude; a vibration pattern; a vibration change; and, a rate of
vibration change.
[0061] In one embodiment, the method includes assessing the machine status at least in part
using machine learning techniques.
[0062] In one embodiment, the method includes using machine learning techniques to:
identify at least one category of behavior for the machine from the reference behavior; and,
determine the machine status by analyzing signals from the one or more sensors to categorize
a current behavior based on the at least one category.
[0063] In one embodiment, the method includes analysing signals from the one or more
sensors with respect to reference behavior determined during corresponding time intervals
during which the machine is expected to exhibit similar behavior.
[0064] In one embodiment, the method includes: monitoring changes in machine status over
time; and, at least one of: storing an indication of changes in machine status as part of
machine status data associated with respective machine; causing a status indication indicative
of the change in machine status to be displayed.
[0065] In one broad form, an aspect of the present invention seeks to provide a method for
filling a microphone housing with acoustic gel, the method including: providing at least one
microphone housing containing a microphone in a vacuum chamber; progressively removing
air from the vacuum chamber; and, introducing an acoustic gel into the vacuum chamber so
that the gel enters the microphone housing through a microphone housing opening.

H \EVK\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\17039940_l.docx-23/05/2018
                                                              - 10
[0066] In one embodiment, the method includes preheating the acoustic gel.
 [0067] In one embodiment, the method includes removing air from the vacuum chamber
until the vacuum chamber reaches a predetermined pressure, and wherein the pressure is at
least one of: less than 50 kPa; less than 10 kPa; less than 5 kPa; less than 1 kPa; and, less than
0.1 kPa.
 [0068] In one embodiment, microphone is a microelectromechanical microphone.
 [0069] In one embodiment, acoustic gel is at least one of: a temperature resistant gel; and, a
room temperature vulcanization silicone gel.
[0070] In one embodiment, microphone is mounted on a circuit board with the microphone
housing opening adjacent a circuit board opening so that the circuit board opening fills with
acoustic gel.
 [0071] It will be appreciated that the broad forms of the invention, and their respective
features can be used in conjunction, interchangeably and/or independently, and reference to
separate broad forms is not intended to be limiting.
Brief Description of the Drawings
[0072] An example of the present invention will now be described with reference to the
accompanying drawings, in which:
[0073] Figure 1 is a schematic diagram of an example of a system for monitoring a machine;
[0074] Figure 2 is a flow chart of an example of a process for monitoring a machine;
[0075] Figure 3 is a schematic diagram of a second example of a system for monitoring a
machine;
[0076] Figure 4 is a schematic diagram of a processing system of Figure 3;
[0077] Figure 5 is a schematic diagram of an example of a client device of Figure 3;
[0078] Figure 6A is a schematic cutaway view of an example of a monitoring device
housing;
[0079] Figure 6B is a schematic close up view of the vibration sensor of Figure 6A;

H \EVK\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\17039940_l.docx-23/05/2018
                                                              - 11
[0080] Figure 6C is a schematic cutaway view of a further example of a monitoring device
housing;
[0081] Figure 6D is a schematic underside view of the monitoring device housing of Figure
6D;
[0082] Figure 6E is a schematic diagram of an example of a separate turbine housing;
[0083] Figures 7A and 7B are a flow chart of an example of a process for monitoring a
machine;
[0084] Figure 8A is a schematic diagram of a first example of a screen shot for use in
monitoring a machine;
 [0085] Figure 8B is a schematic diagram of a second example of a screen shot for monitoring
a machine;
 [0086] Figure 9 is a flow chart of an example of a process for establishing reference data;
and,
 [0087] Figure 10 is a flow chart of an example of a process for analysing sensor signals.
Detailed Description of the Preferred Embodiments
 [0088] An example of a system for monitoring a machine will now be described with
reference to Figure 1.
 [0089] In this example, the apparatus 100 includes a monitoring device 110 having a housing
 120 and a coupling 121 that physically attaches the housing 120 to machine E that is to be
monitored. In this regard, the machine can be any form of machine that requires monitoring,
and which generates detectable characteristics, such as vibrations, noise, heat, or the like and
examples include, but are not limited to, pumps, compressors, engines, motors or the like.
 [0090] The monitoring device typically includes a plurality of sensors 113, each of which is
adapted to sense one or more characteristics. Whilst any suitable sensors could be used, in
general the sensors 113 include at least a vibration sensor that senses vibrations transmitted
from the machine to the vibration sensor via the coupling 121. However, other sensors, such
as temperature sensors, or the like, could be used as will be described in more detail below.

H \EVK\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\17039940_l.docx-23/05/2018
                                                              - 12
[0091] The monitoring device 110 also typically includes a monitoring device processor 111
and a transmitter 112, as well as an optional power supply 114, allowing the monitoring
device to monitor the sensors and provide sensor data to one or more processing systems 130,
for subsequent analysis. The nature of the processing systems 130 will vary depending upon
preferred implementation and could include computer systems such as personal computers,
laptops, desk tops, servers, mobile communication devices such as smart phones or tablets or
the like. Further examples will be described in more detail below.
 [0092] An example of a process for using the system of Figure 1 to monitor machine will
now be described with reference to Figure 2.
 [0093] In this example, at step 200 sensor signals are acquired from the plurality of sensors
 113, including the vibration sensor. The sensor signals are acquired by the monitoring device
processor 111 optionally after preliminary processing, such as filtering, or the like, has been
performed.
 [0094] At step 210 the monitoring device processor 111 generates sensor data at least
partially in accordance with signals from the sensors.             The sensor data could be of any
appropriate form and may include an indication of the sensor signals, or information derived
therefrom, such as one or more parameters obtained by analysing the sensor signals. For
example, the monitoring device processor could perform preliminary analysis, such as
performing a Fourier transform, providing frequency domain information instead of raw data.
The sensor data may also include other information, such as an identifier used to identify the
monitoring device.
 [0095] At step 220, the sensor data is transmitted by the transmitter 112, allowing this to be
received by the processing system(s) 130 at step 230, for example by having the sensor data
transferred via a communications network, point-to-point connection, or the like.
 [0096] At step 240 the processing system 130 analyses the sensor data to determine a
machine status.               The machine status can be of any appropriate form and may include an
indication of whether the machine is functioning as expected, or if not the nature of any
problem and/or could include an indication of sensor signals or parameters derived from the

H: \EVK\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\17039940_1.docx-23/05/2018
                                                                - 13
sensor signals and/or a result of comparison of the sensor signals or parameters to reference
ranges or thresholds. For example, this could include showing a currently measured level of
vibration compared to an expected level of vibration to determine whether the machine is
currently operating normally.
[0097] Once a machine status has been determined, this can either be stored for example as
part of machine status data forming part of a profile associated with the respective machine,
or could be used to generate a status indication indicative of the machine status allowing this
to be displayed to a user at step 250.
 [0098] Accordingly, it will be appreciated that the above described system enables
monitoring of machine to be performed.                         In particular, the above described system allows
machine to be monitored by physically attaching a monitoring device directly to the machine.
The monitoring device can incorporate multiple sensors within a single housing, allowing
multiple different parameters to be monitored, whilst only requiring a single device to be
fitted to the machine. In particular, this allows the monitoring device to be used to monitor
vibrations of the machine, and optionally other parameters, such as a machine temperature or
the like. This is achieved using a physical coupling that attaches the monitoring device to the
machine, and additionally transmits the vibrations from the machine to the onboard vibration
sensor. This allows a monitoring device to be easily retrofitted to existing machine, simply
by coupling the monitoring device to the machine, allowing the monitoring system to monitor
machine operation without interfering with the machine operation.
 [0099] Sensor data indicative of the vibrations and any other measured parameters can then
be transferred to one or more remote processing systems, allowing these to be analysed to
ensure the machine is functioning correctly. This reduces the level of processing required by
the monitoring device, allowing this to be implemented using relatively cheap and
straightforward sensors and associated hardware, in turn allowing the sensors to be deployed
widely without undue expense. Consequently, a number of different monitoring devices can
be attached to a variety of different pieces of machine (generally referred to as assets),
allowing these to be monitored centrally, making it easy for an entity to monitor a wide range
of distributed assets.

H \EVK\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\17039940_1.docx-23/05/2018
                                                                   - 14
[0100] This arrangement also allows data to be stored and analysed centrally. This in turn
generates a repository of sensor data that can be analysed on an ongoing basis, assisting with
the identification of a wide range of different machine faults.
 [0101] A number of further features will now be described.
[0102] Whilst any form of vibration sensor could be used, most typical highly sensitive
vibration sensors are expensive. For example, piezoelectric accelerometers provide highly
accurate absolute vibration values over a wide bandwidth (~15khz). However, these are made
in low volumes and are hand calibrated meaning they are very expensive. As an alternative,
in one example, the vibration sensor includes a microphone acoustically coupled to the
machine at least in part by a rigid mechanical coupling member. The use of a microphone is
particularly advantageous as highly sensitive cheap reliable microphones, such as MEMS
(microelectromechanical) microphones, are readily available whereas vibration sensors tend
to be complex and expensive.                             This can therefore reduce the complexity and cost of the
sensing device, whilst still providing sufficient accuracy to allow sensing to be accurately
performed. Other example sensors that can be used include, but are not limited to low cost
piezo electric elements, including elements from buzzers, starters from lighters, micro linear
actuators, ultrasonic transducers or the like, loudspeaker voice coil, MEMS accelerometers,
strain gauges mounted to a housing or device with varying resistance vs stress/strain, optical
detectors using a with vibrating wire/mass, or the like.
[0103] In one example, acoustic coupling between the machine and the microphone is
achieved in part by having the microphone provided adjacent a first end of a cavity, with the
rigid coupling member including a projection extending from the housing to a second end of
the cavity. This couples vibrations to the microphone via the cavity, in particular by ensuring
mechanical vibrations are translated into soundwaves within the cavity, which can then be
detected by the microphone.
[0104] In one example, the cavity is an opening provided in a circuit board mounted in the
monitoring device housing, with the microphone being directly mounted on the circuit board,
adjacent the opening, and typically with an opening of a microphone housing facing the
cavity.        This provides an easy mechanism for constructing the acoustic coupling, whilst

H: \EVK\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\17039940_1.docx-23/05/2018
                                                                  - 15
ensuring a high degree of acoustic coupling between the microphone and the housing. The
cavity and/or microphone housing can also be filled with an acoustic gel, to help further
increase the effectiveness of the acoustic coupling.
[0105] The acoustic gel can be provided within the microphone and/or cavity in any suitable
manner.             In one example, this involves providing a microphone housing containing a
microphone in a vacuum chamber, progressively removing air from the vacuum chamber and
then introducing an acoustic gel into the vacuum chamber so that the gel enters the
microphone housing through a microphone housing opening. Removing air from the vacuum
chamber allows the gel to more easily penetrate the housing through an opening, thereby
ensuring filling of the housing, and in particular avoiding the creation of air pockets, which
can attenuate acoustic signals being transferred to the microphone.
 [0106] As part of the above process, the acoustic gel might be preheated to reduce the
viscosity of the gel, thereby allowing this to enter the microphone housing more easily. This
will depend on the nature of the acoustic gel, although this is typically a temperature resistant
gel and in one example is a room temperature vulcanization silicone gel. Air is typically
removed the vacuum chamber until the vacuum chamber reaches a predetermined pressure,
such as less than 50 kPa, less than 10 kPa, less than 5 kPa, less than 1 kPa or less than 0.1
kPa, although any suitable pressure could be used. In one example, the microphone can be
pre-mounted on the circuit board before being placed into the vacuum chamber, with the
microphone housing opening adjacent a circuit board opening so that the circuit board
opening fills with acoustic gel.
 [0107] The projection can include an isolation member in abutment with the circuit board to
thereby isolate the cavity from external noise which helps reduce interference. Additionally,
the projection can include a flattened tip extending into the cavity such that movement of the
tip generates pressure fluctuations within the cavity the pressure fluctuations corresponding
to the vibrations, and leading to the sound waves which are detected by the microphone.
 [0108] In some instances, the degree of acoustic coupling can be controlled by appropriate
configuration of the housing.                           For example, the housing can include features adapted to
attenuate or limit vibrations, to thereby avoid saturation of the microphone. The features can

H: \EVK\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\17039940_1.docx-23/05/2018
                                                               -16
include the presence of sound/vibration absorbing materials integrated into the housing
and/or the rigid coupling member, or could include shaping of the housing or rigid coupling
member.             For example, providing apertures within the housing or coupling member can
absorb vibrations, reducing the magnitude of vibrations being coupled to the microphone.
[0109] The monitoring device housing can be of any appropriate form but in one example
includes a base and a cap coupled to the base. Components, such as the circuit board can be
mounted to the cap, with the base being subsequently attached to the cap to thereby facilitate
construction. In this regard, a sealing member is typically positioned between the cap and the
base so that the base and cap are sealingly engaged, thereby preventing ingress of fluids,
including liquids or gasses, which could damage the sensors, as well as reducing ambient
noise when level within the sensors to thereby increase the accuracy of the vibration sensing.
 [0110] Whilst the monitoring device could be coupled to the machine in any suitable manner,
such as by using a mounting bracket or similar, in one example, the coupling includes a
magnet fixed to the housing, allowing the housing to be magnetically coupled to the machine.
This provides a mechanism to easily attach the monitoring device without requiring specific
tools, and without requiring adaptation of the machine, whilst still providing a sufficiently
strong coupling to prevent dislodgement of the monitoring device and to ensure vibrations
are transmitted through the coupling to the vibration sensor. As a result of this arrangement
in the majority of cases the monitoring device can simply be placed in contact with the
machine, without requiring the machine to be stopped to allow mounting of the monitoring
device, as might be required with other attachment techniques, such as bolting or the like.
Additionally, in some cases equipment is relatively inaccessible, meaning that attachment of
a monitoring device could be difficult.                        However, the use of a magnetic coupling can
overcome many of these difficulties, allowing the monitoring device to be moved into a
position close to the machine, with the magnetic coupling then attaching the monitoring
device. For example, if located in a pit, the monitoring device could be lowered on a rope
and swung towards the machine, allowing the monitoring device to attach to the machine.
This can avoid problems associated with accessing machinery in enclosed environments,
such as the need for to follow particular safety protocols or the like.

H: \EVK\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\17039940_l.docx-23/05/2018
                                                                   - 17
[0111] In one example, the coupling can include a cup containing the magnet, with the cup
being attached to the base and upturned so that a rim of the cup engages the machine, thereby
transmitting vibrations from the machine to the housing, via the cup body. This can help
ensure vibrations are transferred from the machine to the base and hence to the vibration
sensor with minimal attenuation, whilst also helping reduce the transmission of excessive
forces to the magnet, which could in turn lead to degradation of the magnet, thereby reducing
the effectiveness of the coupling.
 [0112] To further facilitate attachment of the monitoring device, the coupling includes a
number of teeth that engage the machine in use to thereby assist in securing the monitoring
device to the machine and/or assist in transmitting vibrations from the machine to the
monitoring device housing. For example, teeth can be provided around a rim of the cup, so
that the teeth contact the surface of the machine. This can cut through paint, grease or other
materials present on the machine surface, helping to ensure direct physical contact between
the monitoring device and the machine, which in turn helps optimise transmission of
vibrations to the monitoring device.                           This can also assist in ensuring that the monitoring
device grips the surface of the machine, reducing the likelihood of the monitoring device
slipping off the surface after attachment.
[0113] The coupling can also include a surface shaped to conform to an outer surface of the
machine, with this again being used to assist in securing the monitoring device to the
machine and/or assist in transmitting vibrations from the machine to the monitoring device
housing. For example, if the machine has a curved convex outer surface, the coupling could
include a corresponding concave shape so that there is physical contact between the shaped
surface and the machine over substantially the entirety of the coupling surface.                           Such an
arrangement could be achieved through suitable shaping of the monitoring device, such as
providing a shaped cup, but more typically is achieved through the use of adapter plates.
Such an adapter plate can sit between the cup and the machine surface, with a range of
different adapter plate shapes being provided so that a respective adapter plate can be
selected to conform to the corresponding to common machine surface shapes, such as curved

H \EVK\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\17039940_1.docx-23/05/2018
                                                                - 18
[0114] As previously mentioned, the monitoring device can include a power supply. The
power supply could be in the form of a battery or the like. In one example, first and second
power supplies can be provided, with one operating to power to the sensors/processing
device/transmitter in normal use and another acting to provide ancillary power, for example
to power volatile memory in the event of failure of the first power supply. However, this is
not essential and any suitable arrangement could be used.
[0115] In a further example, the power supply can be adapted to generate power based on
available ambient sources. For example, the power supply could include solar panels adapted
to generate electricity from ambient solar radiation, or could be adapted to generate
electricity based on vibrations of the machine. In a further preferred example, the power
supply could include a turbine adapted to generate power from ambient gas/airflow, such as
exhaust gas flow from the machine.                            In this example, the turbine typically includes a
generator mounted in the housing and a rotor and rotor blades mounted externally to the
housing. In one particular example, the housing is a substantially cylindrical housing, with
the rotor blades extending in an axial direction and positioned radially outwardly from an
outer circumferential surface of the housing so that such that gaseous flow over the blades the
causes the blades to rotate around the housing, thereby rotating the rotator and in turn causing
the generator to generate power.
[0116] As mentioned above, the monitoring device typically includes a plurality of sensors.
The plurality of sensors could include any one or more of a noise sensor, an acoustic sensor,
a temperature sensor, a pressure sensor, a humidity sensor, a movement sensor and an optical
sensor.         It will be appreciated from this that a range of different parameters regarding
machine operation can be monitored depending on the preferred implementation.                               The
sensors can also be adapted to ensure integrity of the monitoring device, as will be described
in more detail below.
[0117] Analysis of the sensor signals is typically achieved by comparing the sensor signals to
reference behaviour of the machine, which is usually at least partially indicative of normal
operation of the machine. In this regard, as each piece of machine typically behaves in a
unique way, depending on the configuration of the machine and the manner in which it is

H: \EVK\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\17039940_1.docx-23/05/2018
                                                               - 19
used, the system typically uses signals from one or more sensors during a first time period to
establish reference behaviour, then using signals from the one or more sensors outside this
first time period, together with the reference behaviour, to determine a machine status.
[0118] Thus, this approach allows normal behaviour for the machine to be monitored,
allowing this to be used in establishing reference behaviour. The system can then analyse
current operation of the machine by comparing signals from the one or more sensors to
signals collected while the machine is operating normally in order to assess the current
operational status of the machine. Thus deviation of the signals from those collected during
the first time period can be indicative of abnormal behaviour, which is in turn indicative of a
potential problem. For example, if signals from the sensors do not exceed certain threshold
values during the first time period, then if signals exceed these threshold values during
monitored operation, this could be indicative of a problem that requires maintenance or
additional investigation.
[0119] This approach of analysing machine during a reference time period and using this to
establish reference behaviour allows monitoring of machine to be performed with no prior
knowledge of the particular machine which is being monitored. In particular, this avoids the
need to perform a complex analysis of machine operation to understand machine behaviour,
instead establishing sensor readings associated with reference behaviour and then analysing
current sensor readings to identify deviations from the reference behaviour.
[0120] In one example, this analysis is performed by generating reference data indicative of
the reference behaviour, and then determining a machine status at least in part based on the
reference data and signals from the one or more sensors, for example by generating
operational data using signals from the one or more sensors and then comparing this to the
reference data.
[0121] Whilst reference and operational data in the form of sensor signals can be compared
directly, more typically signals from one or more sensors are used to determine parameters
indicative of machine operation with the parameters being used to determine the machine
status. The parameters can include any one or more of noise level, noise frequency, a
temperature, a temperature change, a rate of temperature change, a vibration frequency, a

H: \EVK\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\17039940_l.docx-23/05/2018
                                                               - 20
vibration magnitude, a vibration pattern, a vibration change and a rate of vibration change. It
will also be appreciated that other parameters could be determined depending upon the nature
of the machine and the preferred implementation.
[0122] Additionally and/or alternatively, the reference and/or operational data could be based
on patterns derived from signals from the one or more sensors, for example examining
particular sequences of signal or parameter values. For example a particular sequence of
vibrations might occur during pump start-up, so presence of that pattern in signals being
analysed indicates that the pump is starting up. It should be noted in this regard that the
system does not need to understand that this pattern of signals means the pump is starting up,
but merely needs to identify that this is normal behaviour, and hence that the pump is
operating correctly when the pattern is detected.
 [0123] Additionally, the reference data could include thresholds or reference ranges derived
from the signals from the one or more sensors, for example based on average and standard
deviation ranges of signals measured during the reference time period. This can be used to
define absolute values of sensor readings that are expected in normal use, so that readings
exceeding these values are indicative of abnormal behaviour.
 [0124] In a preferred example, the system assesses the machine status at least in part using
machine learning techniques. This is particularly beneficial as this allows the system to learn
different operational behaviours of the machine over time, which in turn allows the
monitoring system to be used with a wide range of different types of machine, without
undergoing a separate analysis of the machine to assess possible failure modes.
 [0125] Whilst any form of machine learning techniques could be used, in one example, the
system uses machine learning techniques to identify at least one category of behavior for the
machine from the reference behavior and then determines the machine status by analyzing
signals from the one or more sensors to categorize a current behavior based on the at least
one category. For example, the machine learning technique could identify signal ranges or
patterns corresponding to normal behaviour. If the measured signals then deviate from these
ranges or patterns, this allows operation to be classified as abnormal. In one example, a
degree of deviation of the signals could be used to define a degree of any issues.          For

H: \EVK\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\17039940_1.docx-23/05/2018
                                                                       -21
example, if sensor readings fall within a single standard deviation of normal values, this
could indicate minor problems, whereas signals beyond a single standard deviation could
indicate more serious problems.                                Similarly, by defining multiple categories, this in turn
allows multiple different classifications to be established, such as a range extending from
"healthy" to "moderate" and then to "serious".
[0126] It will be appreciated that the machine learning process can be aided by feedback
from users.              For example, if an event is classified as a serious problem, and it is later
confirmed that this was in fact normal operation, this information can be fed back into the
machine learning process, allowing the system to reclassify behaviours and more accurately
identify issues moving forward.
[0127] In one example, the system can be adapted to compare reference and operational data
determined during corresponding time intervals during which the machine is expected to
exhibit similar behaviour. For example, a pump in a pumping facility may be adapted to
operate at different pumping levels during different times of the day, for example starting up
at 7am, operating at an intermediate capacity until midday and then operating at maximum
capacity until 5pm. Accordingly, the machine learning approach can identify these patterns
and then analyse reference and operational data at similar times of the day to ensure that
operational data is compared to reference data collected when the pump is exhibiting similar
behaviours.
[0128] In addition to monitoring a static current operational status, the system can also be
adapted to perform longitudinal monitoring, in which changes in machine status over time are
examined to determine a rate of change of operational state. An indication of this can then be
stored as part of machine status data associated with respective machine and/or displayed to a
user. This allows a user to assess not only a current status, but how the status is changing
over time, for example to assess if changes are rapid or slow, in turn allowing the user to
determine a likely point of failure and how urgent is the need for maintenance.
[0129] In addition to comparing data collected during a first time period with operational
data collected during second time period, the sensor can also undergo a calibration process.
In this example, calibration data can be established while the monitoring device is attached to

H: \EVK\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\17039940_1.docx-23/05/2018
                                                               - 22
calibration equipment. The calibration data can then be used to interpret signals from the
sensor when the monitoring device is attached to the machine. In this example, when sensor
data is to be analysed it is typical to determine an identifier of the monitoring device, use the
identifier to retrieve calibration data and then analyse the sensor data at least in part using the
calibration data. Whilst it will be appreciated that calibration is not strictly required if the
same monitoring device is used on the same machine at all times, the use of calibration data
can assist in allowing reference data established using one monitoring device to be utilised in
analysing signals from a second different monitoring device for example if the first fails.
This can also assist in counting for variations such as to account for sensor drift or the like.
[0130] In addition to, or as an alternative to calibrating the monitoring device during a
calibration process, ongoing calibration can be performed, for example by comparing the
output of similar sensors. In this regard, a cheap onboard motion sensor could be used to
dynamically calibrate a vibration sensor, ensuring that sensor drift does not distort measured
vibrations, resulting in inaccurate readings.                     To achieve this, vibrations measured by the
vibration sensor could be compared to vibrations measured using a movement sensor, with
divergence between readings over time being used to scale readings from the vibration
sensor.
 [0131] In addition to monitoring the machine, the system can also be adapted to monitor the
monitoring device and in particular determine a monitoring device integrity. In this regard,
the integrity could include a physical integrity of the monitoring device, for example to
determine if the monitoring device housing has been breached, or examining if the
monitoring device has been moved and is therefore no longer positioned on the machine, or is
in a different position on the machine, which could in turn impact on the vibrations and other
parameters sensed by the monitoring device. In this instance, the system can be adapted to
selectively generate an alert if the integrity of the monitoring device has been affected,
alerting users to the fact that the monitoring device requires checking and that in the
intervening time, sensor data from the monitoring device may not be accurate.
 [0132] A variety of different mechanisms can be used to verify the monitoring device
integrity. Analysing signals from a humidity sensor can be used to determine changes in

H \EVK\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\17039940_1.docx-23/05/2018
                                                              - 23
humidity within the housing, which can indicate if the housing has been breached or if the
seal has failed. For example, a rapid change in humidity is likely to indicate the housing has
been opened, whilst a slow change could indicate the seal has failed. To assist with this
determination, the housing can contain a desiccant to ensure humidity in the housing is
minimised and hence constant when the housing is sealed.
[0133] Similarly, the system can be adapted to analyse signals from a light sensor to
determine changes in light levels within the housing, using changes in light levels to
determine if the housing has been opened. It will be appreciated that these indications can be
analysed in conjunction, for example, if the humidity increases but the light levels remain the
same it is likely that the seal has failed but the housing itself has not been opened.
 [0134] The system can also determine if the monitoring device has been moved by analysing
signals from a movement sensor to identify a movement of or a change in orientation of the
monitoring device.                   Similarly, analysing signals from a microphone could be used to
determine a change in noise levels, in turn signify the monitoring device has been moved,
whilst a wireless network signal strength could be used to determine a change in position of
the transmitter relative to a receiver.
 [0135] The monitoring device can also include one or more sensors provided external to the
housing.           For example, the monitoring device can include an array of current sensors
mounted on a flexible substrate external of the housing, with the substrate being adapted to
be wound around a cable to thereby allow current flows within the cable to be monitored. In
this case, the flexible substrate is typically electrically connected to the monitoring device via
a cable extending from the housing, although alternatively wireless connections could be
used.        It will be appreciated that this extends the range of sensing capabilities of the
monitoring device.
 [0136] In the above described arrangement, the monitoring device operation is substantially
passive in the sense that it is simply detecting operational characteristics of the machine
based on physical attributes of machine operation.                    However, this is not essential and
additionally and/or alternatively active sensing can be performed by having the machine
interact with the machine in some manner.

H \EVK\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\17039940_l.docx-23/05/2018
                                                              - 24
[0137] In one example, this is achieved by having the monitoring device include a transducer
for generating an acoustic signal that is transmitted to the machine at least in part via the
coupling to thereby generate vibrations that can be detected by a monitoring device. In this
instance, monitoring the induced vibrations can be used to determine more information that
would otherwise be the case. For example, this can be used to assess the machine state when
the machine is not otherwise operational.
[0138] Typically the acoustic signal has a defined frequency to allow the acoustic signal to
be distinguished from operational vibrations of the machine. In one particular example, the
acoustic signal is ultrasonic, but it will be appreciated that this is not essential and other
frequencies could be used.
[0139] In one specific example, this can be used to monitor the flow of fluid within a pipe.
In this example, the system includes two monitoring devices spaced apart along a fluid pipe,
with a speed of travel of the acoustic signal between the two monitoring devices being used
to determine a flow of fluid within the pipe.                      In this regard, it will be appreciated that
transmission of the signal will be influenced depending on the rate of fluid in the pipe and
accordingly analysing changes in the signal can be used to identify changes in fluid flow. It
will be appreciated that to achieve this functionality, it may be necessary to ensure operation
of the two monitoring devices are synchronised, which can be achieved by having the
monitoring devices communicate, by using synchronised clocks, or the like.
[0140] In another example, the system can be adapted to analyse signals from an acoustic
sensor to determine changes in noise levels outside the housing.                      This can be done either
using a sensor attached to an outside of the housing, or by using different sensors within the
housing and using signal processing to determine noise levels outside the housing. In either
case changes in noise levels can be used to determine changes in operation of remote
machines, changes in a machine environment, movement of the monitoring device, changes
in operation of the monitoring device and/or to determine if the housing has been breached.
In one particular example, this can be achieved using an acoustic sensor that is mounted in a
recess on an external surface of the housing, and optionally protected by a film, rubber or
epoxy layer, or the like. Signals from the acoustic sensor are monitored to determine noise

H: \EVK\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\17039940_1.docx-23/05/2018
                                                               -25
levels outside the housing, which are monitored to identify changes, which are in turn
indicative of changes in a surrounding environment.
[0141] The sensor data transmitted by the monitoring device can include signals from
sensors, or one or more parameters derived from signals from the sensors, such as signal
magnitudes, frequencies or the like. In this regard, the monitoring device can be adapted to
partially process the sensor signals, for example by filtering, digitising or parameterising the
sensor signals.                The sensor data also typically includes a monitoring device identifier,
allowing the processing system(s) to identify the monitoring device from which sensor data
has been received.                    By associating each monitoring device with a respective piece of
machine, this in turn allowing the processing system(s) to determine the machine to which
the sensor data relates.
 [0142] Whilst the monitoring device and processing systems(s) can communicate directly,
for example via mobile phone networks, this is not essential and indirect communication
could be used. In one example, the system includes at least one hub that receives sensor data
from a plurality of monitoring devices and then transfers the sensor data to the one or more
processing devices 130 via a communications network. This allows a number of monitoring
devices to be provided in a given location, such as a respective building, with these
communicating with a single central hub via short range communications protocols such as
Bluetooth, WIFI or the like, or other longer range wireless communications protocols. The
hub can then provide onward connectivity to a communications network for example via
GPRS or other cellular communications protocol.                    This allows a number of devices to be
provided in a location remote from the processing systems, but without requiring the ability
to communication directly with the processing systems themselves, which may require more
energy intensive communications, which in turn can reduce battery life.
[0143] A more specific example will now be described with reference to Figures 3 to 6.
[0144] In this example, as shown in Figure 3, the system 300 typically includes a number of
monitoring devices 310, each of which is broadly similar to the monitoring device 110
described above, and includes a processor 311, transmitter 312, sensors 313 and power
supply 314.

H \EVK\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\17039940_l.docx-23/05/2018
                                                              -26
[0145] The system includes a hub 340, which is adapted to route sensor data from one or
more of the monitoring devices 310 to a communications network 350. The hub can be of
any appropriate form, but in one example includes a hub processor 341 and first and second
interfaces 342, 343.                  The hub may also include additional components, such as memory,
power supplies or the like, as will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art.
 [0146] In this example, the first interface 342 is typically adapted to provide short range
communications, allowing communication with one or more of the monitoring devices 310,
and may include one or more Bluetooth transmitter/receiver chips, or the like. The second
interface 343 is a network interface, for providing onward connectivity to one or more
communications networks 350 and in one example can include a cellular communications
interface, such as an integrated cellular dongle with an installed SIM card.
 [0147] In use, the hub processor 341 executes instructions in the form of applications
software stored in memory to allow the required processes, and in particular routing of sensor
data, to be performed. Whilst the hub processor 341 can be a standard microprocessor, such
as an Intel Architecture based microprocessor, this is not essential and any suitable
arrangement, such as microchip processor, logic gate configuration, firmware optionally
associated with implementing logic such as an FPGA (Field Programmable Gate Array), or
any other electronic device, system or arrangement, could be used.
 [0148] Additionally, a number of processing systems 330 are provided coupled to one or
more client devices 360, via the one or more communications networks 350, such as the
Internet, and/or a number of local area networks (LANs), or the like.
 [0149] Any number of monitoring devices 310, hubs 340, processing systems 330 and client
devices 360 could be provided, and the current representation is for the purpose of illustration
only. The configuration of the networks 350 is also for the purpose of example only, and in
practice the hub 340, processing systems 330 and client devices 360 can communicate via
any appropriate mechanism, such as via wired or wireless connections, including, but not
limited to mobile networks, private networks, such as an 802.11 networks, the Internet,
LANs, WANs, or the like, as well as via direct or point-to-point connections, such as
Bluetooth, or the like.

H \EVK\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\17039940_l.docx-23/05/2018
                                                              - 27
[0150] In this example, the processing systems 330 are adapted to analyse sensor data from
the monitoring devices 310, and determine a machine status, providing access to the machine
status and/or sensor data, allowing this to be displayed via the client devices 360. Whilst the
processing systems 330 are shown as single entities, it will be appreciated they could include
a number of processing systems distributed over a number of geographically separate
locations, for example as part of a cloud based environment.         Thus, the above described
arrangements are not essential and other suitable configurations could be used.
 [0151] An example of a suitable processing system 330 is shown in Figure 4. In this
example, the processing system 330 includes at least one microprocessor 400, a memory 401,
an optional input/output device 402, such as a keyboard and/or display, and an external
interface 403, interconnected via a bus 404 as shown. In this example the external interface
403 can be utilised for connecting the processing system 330 to peripheral devices, such as
the communications networks 350, databases 411, other storage devices, or the like.
Although a single external interface 403 is shown, this is for the purpose of example only,
and in practice multiple interfaces using various methods (eg. Ethernet, serial, USB, wireless
or the like) may be provided.
 [0152] In use, the microprocessor 400 executes instructions in the form of applications
software stored in the memory 401 to allow the required processes to be performed.         The
applications software may include one or more software modules, and may be executed in a
suitable execution environment, such as an operating system environment, or the like.
 [0153] Accordingly, it will be appreciated that the processing system 330 may be formed
from any suitable processing system, such as a suitably programmed PC, web server, network
server, or the like. In one particular example, the processing system 330 is a standard
processing system such as an Intel Architecture based processing system, which executes
software applications stored on non-volatile (e.g., hard disk) storage, although this is not
essential. However, it will also be understood that the processing system could be any
electronic processing device such as a microprocessor, microchip processor, logic gate
configuration, firmware optionally associated with implementing logic such as an FPGA
(Field Programmable Gate Array), or any other electronic device, system or arrangement.

H \EVK\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\17039940_l.docx-23/05/2018
                                                              -28
[0154] As shown in Figure 5, in one example, the client device 360 includes at least one
microprocessor 500, a memory 501, an input/output device 502, such as a keyboard and/or
display, an external interface 503, and typically a card reader 504, interconnected via a bus
505 as shown. In this example the external interface 503 can be utilised for connecting the
client device 360 to peripheral devices, such as the communications networks 350, databases,
other storage devices, or the like. Although a single external interface 503 is shown, this is
for the purpose of example only, and in practice multiple interfaces using various methods
(eg. Ethernet, serial, USB, wireless or the like) may be provided.
[0155] In use, the microprocessor 500 executes instructions in the form of applications
software stored in the memory 501, and to allow communication with one of the processing
systems 330.
[0156] Accordingly, it will be appreciated that the client device 360 be formed from any
suitably programmed processing system and could include suitably programmed PCs,
Internet terminal, lap-top, or hand-held PC, a tablet, a smart phone, or the like. However, it
will also be understood that the client device 360 can be any electronic processing device
such as a microprocessor, microchip processor, logic gate configuration, firmware optionally
associated with implementing logic such as an FPGA (Field Programmable Gate Array), or
any other electronic device, system or arrangement.
[0157] A specific example of a monitoring device 110 will now be described with reference
to Figures 6A to 6D.
[0158] In this example, the housing includes a base 601 and a cap 602 which is coupled to
the base, for example using fasteners, such as screws, an interference fit, or the like. A seal,
such as an O-ring seal or similar can be provided between the cap 602 and the base 601 to
thereby seal the housing. The base 601 is coupled to a metallic cup 603 containing a magnet
604 allowing the housing to be magnetically attached to machine. In particular, the rim of
the cup abuts against the machine, allowing vibrations to be transmitted through the cup body
to the base 601. It will be appreciated however that alternative attachment mechanisms could
be used depending upon the preferred implementation.

H \EVK\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\17039940_l.docx-23/05/2018
                                                              - 29
[0159] The cap includes supports 605, 606, such as mounting tabs or clips, for supporting a
printed circuit board 610 and power supply 614, such as a battery, respectively. The printed
circuit board 610 supports a number of components including sensors 613 (with one being
shown for illustration only), as well as the monitoring device processor, associated memory
and a Bluetooth transceiver.
 [0160] In the current example, the sensor 613 is a vibration sensor in the form of a MEMS
microphone 613.3 provided in a microphone housing 613.1 adjacent a microphone opening
613.2, thereby allowing sound waves to enter the housing so that these can be detected by the
MEMS microphone 613.3. In this example, the vibration sensor 613 is mounted directly onto
the circuit board 610 adjacent a circuit board opening that forms an acoustic cavity 610.1,
with the microphone opening 613.2 facing a first end of the acoustic cavity. The housing
includes a projection 607 upstanding from the base 601, which includes a flattened tip 607.1
that terminates in or at least adjacent to a second end of the acoustic cavity 610.1, allowing
vibrations to be coupled to the acoustic cavity, and in particular to generate sound waves
within the acoustic cavity. An annular O-ring seal 607.2 is mounted on the projection and is
provided in abutment with the circuit board 610 to thereby isolate the cavity from external
noise.
[0161] Whilst the acoustic cavity can be air filled, in another example, the acoustic cavity is
filled with an acoustic gel, to thereby optimise transfer of sound waves to the microphone
613.3. Similarly, the microphone housing 613.1 can also be filled with an acoustic gel. To
achieve this, the microphone and/or circuit board can be provided in a vacuum chamber with
the pressure being reduced to a defined level before gel is introduced.       The gel can be a
temperature resistant gel or silicone gel that cures so this can be introduced into the housing
and/or cavity, with excess gel being removed before curing occurs. This ensures complete
filling with gel, to ensure good transmission of acoustic signals from the projection to the
microphone.
[0162] A further example housing, used with a monitoring device incorporating a turbine, is
shown in Figures 6C and 6D.

H \EVK\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\17039940_l.docx-23/05/2018
                                                                - 30
[0163] In this example, the turbine includes a generator 621 positioned axially within a
cylindrical housing, having an axle 622 extending through the cap 602. The axle is coupled
to a rotor 623, which in turn has a number of rotor blades 624 extending in an axial direction
and positioned radially outwardly of the housing cap 602.                            In use, airflow in a lateral
direction relative to the housing causes movement of the blades 624 and hence rotor 623,
thereby allowing power to be generated.                         It will be appreciated that this could be used to
allow the turbine to provide power to charge a battery, and thereby extend the life of the
battery 614.
 [0164] In a further example, the turbine could be located separate to the housing, and an
example of such an arrangement is shown in Figure 6E.
 [0165] In this example, the turbine 631 is provided in a funnel shaped housing 630, which is
attached over an air inlet port of equipment E. Air drawn into the housing 630, as shown by
the arrow 632, is constricted by a narrow waist, which in turn accelerates the air flow. The
turbine 631 can be positioned in the housing 630, so that the air flow has a desired velocity
when this reaches the turbine, to thereby optimise generation of electricity, based on typical
air flow rates into the equipment E.                          The monitoring device 600 can then be located
separately to the turbine, and electrically connected to the turbine via a suitable electrical
connection 633, allowing the monitoring device to be positioned so as to maximise the
effectiveness of the monitoring, whilst still ensuring electricity can be provided.
[0166] Example processes performed by the monitoring a machine will now be described in
further detail. For the purpose of these examples it is assumed that one or more respective
processing systems 330 are servers.                           In one example, the servers 330 host machine
monitoring services that are accessed by the client devices 360 allowing machine to be
monitored remotely. The servers 330 typically execute software, allowing relevant actions to
be performed, with actions performed by the server 330 being performed by the processor
400 in accordance with instructions stored as applications software in the memory 401 and/or
input commands received from a user via the I/O device 402. It will also be assumed that
actions performed by the client devices 360, are performed by the processor 500 in

H: \EVK\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\17039940_l.docx-23/05/2018
                                                                -31
accordance with instructions stored as applications software in the memory 501 and/or input
commands received from a user via the I/O device 502.
[0167] However, it will be appreciated that the above described configuration assumed for
the purpose of the following examples is not essential, and numerous other configurations
may be used. It will also be appreciated that the partitioning of functionality between the
different processing systems may vary, depending on the particular implementation.
 [0168] An example of a process for monitoring a machine will now be described with
reference to Figures 7A and 7B.
 [0169] In this example, signals are acquired from the sensors at step 700 with these
optionally undergoing preliminary processing at step 705. The preliminary processing may
be of any appropriate form, depending on the nature of the signals generated by the sensors.
For example, this could include digitisation of analogue sensor signals achieved using a
dedicated analogue to digital convertor, and optionally filtering, amplification, or the like.
This can also include performing a frequency transformation, such as a fast Fourier
transform, to convert time series information into the frequency domain, which can reduce
the volume of data, whilst retaining the necessary meaningful data for analysis. These can be
achieved utilising known techniques and will not be described in further detail.
 [0170] At step 710 the monitoring device processor 311 generates sensor data. The sensor
data can be of any appropriate form and typically includes an indication of a monitoring
device identifier and information derived from sensor signals. In one example, the sensor
data is in the form of data packets including a data packet header containing the identifier,
and a payload indicative of the sensor signals. The payload data can include raw digitised
sensor signals or values derived therefrom, such as parameters,                             frequency domain
information or the like.                         Typically only limited processing is performed on board the
monitoring device is simple in order to reduce processing and power requirements, but it will
be appreciated that this may not always be the case and indeed additional analysis may be
performed in order to reduce the amount of sensor data that needs to be transmitted to the
server. The data packets may also include other relevant information, such as a time or date
of capture of the data.

H: \EVK\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\17039940_1.docx-23/05/2018
                                                               - 32
[0171] At step 715 sensor data is transmitted to the hub 340, which routes the sensor data
from multiple monitoring devices 310 to a server 330 at step 720. It will be appreciated that
these steps are performed periodically, and optionally substantially continuously, depending
on monitoring requirements, data transmission bandwidths or the like.
 [0172] At step 725, for each data packet, the server 330 determines the device identifier
associated with the received sensor data. This allows the server 330 to identify the machine to
which the sensor data relates, as each piece of machine is associated with a respective
monitoring device 310 during an initial set-up phase. In this regard, when the monitoring
device 310 is initially attached to the machine, for example by magnetically coupling the
monitoring device 310 to the machine, an installer can record an indication of the monitoring
device and the machine, with this being used to establish a machine profile, which includes
basic information regarding the machine, such as an indication of a machine type,
identification information such as a name, serial number, or the like, a location and an
indication of one or more entities responsible for the machine, such as a machine owner or
operator, maintenance personnel, or the like.
 [0173] The machine profile also typically includes reference data associated with the
machine, as monitored by the respective monitoring device 310.             The reference data can
include sensor data collected during a reference time period, or information derived
therefrom, such as defined ranges or thresholds of different sensor readings that correspond
to normal and/or abnormal operation of the machines, as will be described in more detail
below.          The reference data can include different sets of reference data established during
different time periods, for example to account different operation of the machine at different
times of the day or week.
 [0174] At step 730 the server 330 retrieves the relevant reference data, optionally taking into
account the time of capture of the sensor data, using this to analyse the sensor data at step
735.        The nature of the analysis will vary depending on the preferred implementation but
could include comparison to either the reference data or reference ranges derived therefrom,
with this being used to determine a machine status at step 740 and also to check whether the
monitoring device has moved or its integrity has been in any way affected.                 Specific

H: \EVK\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\17039940_l.docx-23/05/2018
                                                               - 33
examples of the analysis will be described in more detail below, sufficed to say that upon
completion of the analysis an indication of an operational status of the machine and
optionally the monitoring device 310 is determined.
[0175] If a machine status is abnormal or if the monitoring device has moved or been
damaged, the server 330 might determine an alert is required at step 750. In this case, at step
755, the server 330 generates a notification which can be transferred to a client device at step
760.         This could include, for example, sending a text message, email or other suitable
notification to a client device in accordance with contact information provided in the
respective machine profile.
 [0176] Otherwise sensor data and the results of the associated analysis can be stored at step
765, allowing this to be subsequently retrieved by a user using a client device 360. For
example, in this instance a user may use the client device 360 to access the server 330 and
request information relating to one or more assets, in which case a representation is typically
generated at step 770 and displayed to the user using the client device at step 775. In this
regard, it will be appreciated that the representation could be generated by the server 330 and
displayed on the client device 360, for example as part of a web page or the like, or
alternatively data could be transferred to the client device 360, allowing the representation to
be generated locally.
 [0177] In either case, the representation can be used to provide information regarding one or
more assets to the user, with the user then interacting with the representation to allow further
information to be displayed in an interactive manner.
 [0178] Example representations are shown in Figures 8A and 8B respectively.
 [0179] In the example of Figure 8A a user interface 800 is presented including a map 810,
having a number of icons 811 showing the location of respective assets. The icons can be
encoded to show a current asset status, for example using colours such green, amber and red
to signify if the machine operation is normal, marginal, or failed or failing. The user can then
interact with the representation, for example selecting a respective asset, allowing them to
view further information regarding the respective asset.

H \EVK\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\17039940_l.docx-23/05/2018
                                                                   - 34
[0180] In the example of Figure 8B the status of a particular asset is shown. In this example,
the user interface includes a condition indication 821 and a rate of change indication 822.
The condition indication indicates whether the machine is healthy or not on a graduated
scale, from "healthy" to "serious".                           The rate of change indicates a rate of change of the
condition, for example to show how quickly the condition is progressing from "healthy" to
"serious". This can be used by operators to determine not only the current machine condition
but also how quickly this is changing allowing operators to assess a likely time of failure, or
how quickly maintenance might be required.
[0181] Additionally, the user interface 800 displays a vibration and a temperature window
831, 832 which include graphs 833, 834 showing current vibration and temperature readings.
Each of these graphs typically includes green, yellow and red zones indicating whether the
vibrations or temperatures exceed particular defined thresholds derived from the reference
data, which are in turn indicative of whether the temperature or vibration readings are
indicative of a "healthy", "moderate" or "serious" condition. Historical readings can also be
selected and viewed using a respective slider 835, 836.
 [0182] It will be appreciated from this that the client device 360 and server 330 cooperate to
display a user interface, allowing the user to be presented with a graphical representation of
status information relating to one or more assets. The user interface provides a dashboard
allowing users to obtain an overview of multiple assets, and then select individual assets to
review further detail, including in depth status information and representations of sensor
signals.
 [0183] An example of the process for generating reference data will now be described with
reference to Figure 9.
 [0184] In particular, sensor data is received at step 900 with this being combined with
historical reference sensor data that has already been collected at step 905. The historical and
current data is then analysed to determine one or more periodic patterns at step 910, for
example to identify time periods when the machine is operating in a particular manner. This
is used to account for the fact that the vibrations and temperature will be inherently different
if the machine is operating at half power as opposed to full power, for example. This is then

H: \EVK\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\17039940_l.docx-23/05/2018
                                                                    - 35
used to segment the data into time periods where the machine is operating in a consistent
manner at step 915.
[0185] At step 920, the reference sensor data within different time periods is analysed to
determine particular parameters, such as maximum, minimum or average sensor readings,
rates of change of sensor readings or the like. The particular parameters that are determined
will vary depending on the nature of the sensor data and the preferred implementation. These
values can then be used to define reference ranges at step 925, with the reference ranges
corresponding to ranges of sensor readings where the machine is operating in a "healthy",
"moderate" or "serious" condition. In this regard, information regarding the health state of
the machine might need to be confirmed, with this being used as part of an analysis process
in order to define boundaries of respective machine health states.
 [0186] It will be appreciated that the above described processes can be performed using
machine learning techniques, so that by monitoring ongoing operation of the machine, the
server 330 can learn to recognise patterns of sensor readings that correspond to respective
health states, allowing these states to be subsequently identified. In the event that feedback is
provided regarding a health state, the server 330 can then modify the reference boundaries as
required in order to ensure a determined status is correct in future. In this regard, it will be
appreciated that a wide range of different machine learning techniques could be used.
 [0187] Reference data embodying these reference ranges can then be stored as part of the
profile associated with the respective machine at step 925.
 [0188] When analysing signals the process shown in Figure 10 is used. In particular, in this
example sensor data is received at step 1000 by the server 330, with this being analysed to
determine signal parameters at step 1005. Again the parameters can include maximum or
minimum values of sensor readings, rates of change or the like. The current time period,
such as the particular time of day is determined at step 1010, allowing equivalent reference
ranges to be selected at step 1015.                            At step 1020, the current signal parameters are then
compared to the parameter ranges with this being used to determine a status indication at step
 1025.

H \EVK\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\17039940_l.docx-23/05/2018
                                                                - 36
[0189] Whilst the process of generating reference data and analysing signals are shown as
discrete processes, it will be appreciated that analysed signals can be used to generate further
reference data, allowing ongoing training and hence refinement of the reference ranges to be
performed.
 [0190] It will be appreciated that this approach allows a wide range of different forms of
analysis to be performed.                          At one level, this can include examining vibrations and/or
temperatures and using this to assess operation of the machine. However, additionally, this
can also involve examining humidity and/or light levels within the sensing device housing to
establish if the housing has been opened, breached or the seal has otherwise failed. This can
also be used to examine movement and/or changes in noise levels, in order to assess whether
the monitoring device has been moved.
[0191] Accordingly, the above described system provides a sensor solution for monitoring a
machine. The system combines multiple sensing capabilities into a simple, easy-to-install
sensing device that can be manufactured at a highly affordable price point. The system can
use machine learning and artificial intelligence algorithms to learn about the machine that it
is monitoring and in turn predict impending failures.
[0192] By virtue of the fact that the above system uses generic sensing devices that can be
easily attached to any machine, and that the system uses machine learning to assess when
sensor readings, such as vibrations and optionally other readings such as temperature, are out
of normal operating ranges, this allows the system to be set up and configured with minimal
user intervention required.                         This in turn allows the system to be rapidly and cheaply
deployed, allowing this to be offered as a monthly subscription service.
[0193] The system can avoid the need for maintenance staff to manually inspect machines on
a regular (typically monthly) basis, which is costly and ineffective, as it often involves staff
inspecting machines that may be working perfectly. In Australia this can involve driving
large distances to remote and inaccessible locations. This can also result in staff having to
access machines in dangerous and unsafe environments. Instead the current system can
continously monitor machine and provide alerts before machines need maintenance.
Maintenance and operations teams are able to schedule maintenance proactively rather than

H: \EVK\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\17039940_l.docx-23/05/2018
                                                                  - 37
operating reactively. This improves workplace safety, reduces cost, drives productivity and
improves asset availability.
[0194] Thus, current maintenance practices, which involve either running machine to failure
or      periodic            inspections           (typically   once    a month or yearly) can be avoided.
Instead providing continuous low cost monitoring avoids the need for inspections, massively
reducing maintanence costs. In one example, the system achieves this by monitoring
vibration and/or temperature to detect when a machine is degrading towards failure and alert
maintenance staff to action. Therefore maintenance activities are targeted towards machinery
that requires action, not machines that are working perfectly.
 [0195] In one example, access to information regarding multiple assets can be provided via a
single user interface acting as a dashboard to provide an overview of operation of individual
assets. Information on specific assets can then be reviewed in more depth, allowing decisions
regarding maintanence to be made in a predictive rather than reactive fashion.
 [0196] The system typically involves a number of components briefly discussed in more
detail below.
[0197] The sensing device uses an accelerometer (or digital microphone) and thermistor to
gather vibration and temperature data, which can be passed to a processor for processing. In
this regard, the processor can contain an analog to digital convertor, firmware that performs a
Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) process on the vibration data (this converts the vibration time
series data to the frequency domain, which is more useful for detecting machine faults),
timers that set the data sampling and transmission rate, and a wireless communication device
(modem) that allows the data so collected to be uploaded to a local hub via Bluetooth or WiFi
protocols. The sensing device can also include custom firmware that optimises battery life
by shutting down parts of the sensor hardware except when needed.
[0198] The above features enable sensing devices to be installed in seconds using magnetic
coupling, and avoiding the need for cabling, permits or drilling. The sensing devices can
operate on batteries with a 2 year life-span, which can be further extended using energy

H: \EVK\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\17039940_1.docx-23/05/2018
                                                               -38
harvesting arrangements, thereby further reducing the need for sensor maintanence and
replacement.
[0199] A hub (which could also be a gateway) is typically used to scan for, and communicate
with, multiple sensing devices at a site via Bluetooth or WiFi, or another short range
communication protocol. This can be used to store and periodically transmits sensor data
securely via a cellular communications network to one or more servers for subsequent
analysis.
 [0200] The central server system is responsible for the storage, processing, analysis,
reporting and display of all of sensor data and resulting status information. Typically the
server system performs these functions for a number of different customers, allowing each
customer to access information regarding their assets on a custom-built display Dashboard.
In one example, customers can log into this dashboard and monitor, in near real-time, the
temperature and vibration status, and any trend in the value of these parameters, for all their
machines. The dashboard will also show the location of the sensors at each site for each
customer as a map view, and the status of each machine, and a single page overview of the
status of all monitored machines for each customer. Users can 'click through' the machine
shown on the map view or the single page view to see images of each site, each machine and
other useful information, such as the machine manufacturer's nameplate.
 [0201] The central server system can also contain machine learning algorithms that are
initially set to 'learn' the normal operating parameters of each machine via the received
sensor data, and then switch to 'operate' mode where any changes in the normal operation are
detected and can trigger alarms. The alarm levels can be set for each parameter of each
machine, and will display and email an alarm message to a nominated person for each
machine if a parameter on that machine exceeds its alarm level. It will be appreciated
however that the use of a central server is only one option, and alternatively other processing
arrangements could be used. Whilst there can be discrete learning and operating modes, this
is not essential, and in practice, the system will typically undergo a training period and then
gradually tranisition to an ongoing monitoring phase. As this occurs, and optionally on an
ongoing basis, feedback can be provided, with this being used for ongoing training of the

H: \EVK\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\EVK\17039940_l.docx-23/05/2018
                                                               - 39
machine learning algorithms. For example, if the algorithm identifies an issue with operation
of a machine, manual inspection of the machine can be performed, with this being used to
verify whether or not an issue exists, allowing further machine learning to be performed.
[0202] In any event, the ability to use machine learning analytic algorithms to analyse signals
from the sensing devices enables the system to 'auto-learn' the behaviour of the machine
being monitored, thereby reducing the need for human experts to calibrate or customise. This
simplifies the process for a much broader scale adoption over existing competitors products
which require calibration, expert installation and complete software configuration.
 [0203] The centralised process also allows the data to be hosted and presented via an
intuitive visual interface, meaning users can use the system with little or no training. This
also allows maintenance teams to be productive immediately, without the need for hours or
days of training.
 [0204] Additionally, in one example, the client device could be adapted to assist users during
an installation process, for example by displaying information guiding the customers to self
install the sensors and gateways via a guided process, that also configures the central system
with information about the customer, site and machines being monitored that will appear on
the dashboard when the customer's Users log in.
[0205] Throughout this specification and claims which follow, unless the context requires
otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be
understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers or steps but not the
exclusion of any other integer or group of integers.
[0206] Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that numerous variations and modifications
will become apparent. All such variations and modifications which become apparent to
persons skilled in the art, should be considered to fall within the spirit and scope that the
invention broadly appearing before described.

H:\jr\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\LJR\ 17039940 1.doex-23/05/2018
                                                              - 40
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1) A monitoring system for monitoring a machine, the monitoring system including:
         a) at least one monitoring device that magnetically attaches to the machine, and which
               includes a vibration sensor that senses vibration transmitted from the machine; and,
        b) one or more processing systems that analyse sensor data from the vibration sensor to
               determine a machine status.
2) A monitoring system for monitoring a machine, the monitoring system including at least
        one monitoring device that magnetically attaches to the machine, and which includes a
        vibration sensor that senses vibration transmitted from the machine, wherein sensor data
        from the vibration sensor is analysed to determine a machine status.
3) A monitoring system for monitoring a machine, the monitoring system including one or
        more processing devices that receive sensor data from a vibration sensor forming part of
        at least one monitoring device that magnetically attaches to the machine, and wherein the
        one or more processing systems analyse sensor data from the vibration sensor to
        determine a machine status.
4) A monitoring system according to any one of the claims 1 to 3, wherein the monitoring
        device includes a temperature sensor and the one or more processing systems analyse
        sensor data from the temperature sensor to determine a machine status.
5) A monitoring system according to any one of the claims 1 to 4, wherein the monitoring
        device includes a transmitter that transmits the sensor data, allowing the sensor data to be
        transferred via a communications network.
6) A monitoring system for monitoring a machine, the monitoring system including:
         a) at least one monitoring device including:
               i)   a housing;
               ii) a coupling that physically attaches the housing to the machine;
               iii) a plurality of sensors, the plurality of sensors including a vibration sensor that
                    senses vibration transmitted from the machine to the vibration sensor at least in
                    part via the coupling;
               iv) a monitoring device processor that:
                    (1) acquires sensors signals from the plurality of sensors; and,

H:\ljr\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\LJR\ 17039940 _.docx-23/05/2018
                                                               - 41
                     (2) generates sensor data at least partially in accordance with signals from the
                            sensors;
               v) a transmitter that transmits the sensor data; and,
         b) one or more processing systems that:
               i)    receive the sensor data;
               ii) analyse the sensor data to determine a machine status; and,
               iii) at least one of:
                     (1) store an indication of the machine status as part of machine status data
                            associated with the respective machine; and,
                     (2) cause a status indication indicative of the machine status to be displayed.
7) A monitoring system according to any one of the claims 1 to 6, wherein the vibration
         sensor includes a microphone acoustically coupled to the machine at least in part via a
        rigid mechanical coupling member.
8) A monitoring system according to claim 7, wherein the microphone is provided adjacent a
         first end of a cavity and the rigid coupling member includes a projection extending from
        the housing to a second end of the cavity, to thereby couple vibrations to the microphone
        via the cavity.
9) A monitoring system according to claim 8, wherein the cavity is an opening provided in a
         circuit board, the microphone being mounted on the circuit board.
1O)A monitoring system according to claim 8 or claim 9, wherein the microphone is a
        microelectromechanical microphone provided in a housing having an opening facing the
         cavity.
11)A monitoring system according to any one of the claims 8 to 10, wherein the projection
         includes:
         a) an isolation member in abutment with the circuit board to isolate the cavity from
               external noise; and,
         b) a flattened tip extending into the cavity, such that movement of the tip generates
               pressure fluctuations within the cavity, the pressure fluctuations corresponding to the
               vibrations.
12)A monitoring system according to any one of the claims 8 to 11, wherein at least one of a
         microphone housing and the cavity are filled with an acoustic gel.

H:\jr\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\LJR\ 17039940 1.docx-23/05/2018
                                                              - 42
13)A monitoring system according to any one of the claims 1 to 12, wherein the housing
        includes:
         a) a base; and,
        b) a cap coupled to the base.
14)A monitoring system according to claim 13, wherein the housing includes a sealing
        member positioned between the base and the cap, so that the base and the cap sealingly
        engage.
15)A monitoring system according to claim 14, wherein the housing includes a channel
        extending around a perimeter of the base, the sealing member being positioned in the
        channel, and the cap including a lip shaped to conform with the channel and engage the
        seal.
16)A monitoring system according to any one of the claims 1 to 15, wherein the coupling
        includes a magnet fixed to the housing.
17)A monitoring system according to claim 16, wherein the coupling includes a cup
        containing the magnet so that the cup engages the machine to thereby transmit vibrations
        from the machine to the housing.
18)A monitoring system according to claim 16 or claim 17, wherein the coupling includes a
        number of teeth that engage the machine in use to thereby at least one of:
         a) assist in securing the monitoring device to the machine; and,
        b) assist in transmitting vibrations from the machine to the monitoring device housing.
19)A monitoring system according to any one of the claims 16 to 18, wherein the coupling
        includes a surface shaped to conform to an outer surface of the machine to thereby at least
        one of:
         a) assist in securing the monitoring device to the machine; and,
        b) assist in transmitting vibrations from the machine to the monitoring device housing.
20)A monitoring system according to any one of the claims 1 to 19, wherein the monitoring
        device includes at least one power supply.
21)A monitoring system according to claim 20, wherein the at least one power supply
        includes a turbine.
22)A monitoring system according to claim 21, wherein the turbine includes:
         a) a generator;

H:\ljr\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\LJR\ 17039940 _.docx-23/05/2018
                                                               - 43
         b) a rotor positioned externally to the housing and coupled to the generator; and,
         c) a plurality of rotor blades mounted on the rotor and extending axially along and
               radially outwardly of an outer cylindrical surface of the housing such that gaseous
               flow over the vanes rotates the rotor, thereby causing the generator to generate power.
23)A monitoring system according to any one of the claims 1 to 22, wherein the sensor data
         includes at least one of:
         a) a monitoring device identifier;
         b) signals from the sensors; and,
         c) one or more parameters derived from signals from the sensors.
24)A monitoring system according to any one of the claims 1 to 23, wherein the monitoring
         device at least partially processes the sensor signals.
25)A monitoring system according to claim 24, wherein the monitoring device at least
        partially processes the sensor signals by at least one:
         a) filtering;
         b) amplifying;
         c) digitizing; and,
         d) parameterizing.
26)A monitoring system according to any one of the claims 1 to 25, wherein the plurality of
         sensors include at least one of:
         a) at least one current sensor;
         b) a noise sensor;
         c) an acoustic sensor;
         d) a temperature sensor;
         e) a pressure sensor;
         f) a humidity sensor;
         g) a movement sensor; and,
         h) an optical sensor.
27)A monitoring system according to any one of the claims 1 to 26, wherein the system:
         a) uses signals from one or more sensors during a first time period to establish reference
               behavior for the machine; and,

H:\ljr\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\LJR\ 17039940 _.docx-23/05/2018
                                                               - 44
         b) uses signals from the one or more sensors and the reference behavior to determine a
               machine status.
28)A monitoring system according to claim 27, wherein the system:
         a) uses signals from one or more sensors to generate reference data indicative of the
               reference behavior, the reference data being indicative of at least one of:
               i)    signals from the one or more sensors;
               ii) parameters derived from signals from the one or more sensors;
               iii) patterns derived from signals from the one or more sensors;
               iv) reference thresholds derived from the signals from the one or more sensors; and,
               v) reference ranges derived from the signals from the one or more sensors; and,
         b) determines a machine status at least in part based on the reference data and signals
               from the one or more sensors.
29)A monitoring system according to claim 28, wherein the system:
         a) determines operational data using signals from the one or more sensors, the
               operational data being based on at least one of:
               i)    signals from the one or more sensors;
               ii) parameters derived from signals from the one or more sensors; and,
               iii) patterns derived from signals from the one or more sensors; and,
         b) compares the operational data to the reference data.
30)A monitoring system according to claim 28 or claim 29, wherein the parameters include
         at least one of:
         a) a noise level;
         b) a noise frequency;
         c) a temperature;
         d) a temperature change;
         e) a rate of temperature change;
         f) a vibration frequency;
         g) a vibration magnitude;
         h) a vibration pattern;
         i)    a vibration change; and,
        j)     a rate of vibration change.

H:\jr\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\LJR\ 17039940 1.docx-23/05/2018
                                                              - 45
31)A monitoring system according to any one of the claims 26 to 30, wherein the system
        assesses the machine status at least in part using machine learning techniques.
32)A monitoring system according to claim 31, wherein the system uses machine learning
        techniques to:
         a) identify at least one category of behavior for the machine from the reference
               behavior; and,
        b) determine the machine status by analyzing signals from the one or more sensors to
               categorize a current behavior based on the at least one category.
33)A monitoring system according to any one of the claims 26 to 32, wherein the system
        analyses signals from the one or more sensors with respect to reference behavior
        determined during corresponding time intervals during which the machine is expected to
        exhibit similar behavior.
34)A monitoring system according to any one of the claims 26 to 33, wherein the system:
         a) monitors changes in machine status over time; and,
        b) at least one of:
               i)   stores an indication of changes in machine status as part of machine status data
                    associated with respective machine;
               ii) cause a status indication indicative of the change in machine status to be
                    displayed.
35)A monitoring system according to any one of the claims 1 to 34, wherein the system:
         a) uses signals from one or more sensors during a calibration time period when the
               monitoring device is attached to a calibration machine to establish calibration data;
               and,
        b) using the calibration data to interpret signals from the sensors when the monitoring
               device is attached to the machine.
36)A monitoring system according to claim 35, wherein the one or more processing systems:
         a) determine an identifier of the monitoring device;
        b) uses the identifier to retrieve calibration data; and,
         c) analyse the sensor data at least in part using the calibration data.
37)A monitoring system according to any one of the claims 1 to 36, wherein the system:
         a) analyses signals from the vibration and movement sensors; and,

H:\ljr\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\LJR\ 17039940 _.docx-23/05/2018
                                                               - 46
         b) uses signals from the movement sensor to dynamically calibrate the vibration sensor.
38)A monitoring system according to any one of the claims 1 to 37, wherein the system:
         a) determines a monitoring device integrity; and,
         b) selectively generates an alert depending on results of the determination.
39)A monitoring system according to any one of the claims 1 to 38, wherein the system:
         a) analyses signals from a humidity sensor to determine changes in humidity within the
               housing; and,
         b) using changes in humidity to determine at least one of:
               i)    if the housing has been breached; and,
               ii) if a housing seal has failed.
40)A monitoring system according to claim 39, wherein the housing contains a desiccant.
41)A monitoring system according to any one of the claims 1 to 40, wherein the system:
         a) analyses signals from a light sensor to determine changes in light levels within the
               housing; and,
         b) using changes in light levels to determine at least one of:
               i)    if the housing has been breached; and,
               ii) if a housing seal has failed.
42)A monitoring system according to any one of the claims 1 to 41, wherein the system
         determines if the monitoring device has been moved by:
         a) analysing signals from a movement sensor to determine at least one of:
               i)    movement; and,
               ii) a change in orientation;
         b) analysing signals from a microphone to determine a change in noise levels; and,
         c) determine a wireless network signal strength to determine a change in position of the
               transmitter relative to a receiver.
43)A monitoring system according to any one of the claims 1 to 42, wherein the monitoring
         device includes an array of current sensors mounted on a flexible substrate external of the
        housing, and wherein the flexible substrate is adapted to be wound around a cable to
        thereby monitor current flows within the cable.
44)A monitoring system according to any one of the claims 1 to 43, wherein the monitoring
         device includes a transducer for generating an acoustic signal that is transmitted to the

H:\ljr\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\LJR\ 17039940 _.docx-23/05/2018
                                                               - 47
         machine at least in part via the coupling to thereby generate vibrations that can be
         detected by a monitoring device.
45)A monitoring system according to claim 44, wherein the acoustic signal has a defined
         frequency to allow the acoustic signal to be distinguished from vibrations of the machine.
46)A monitoring system according to claim 44 or claim 45, wherein the acoustic signal is
        ultrasonic.
47)A monitoring system according to any one of the claims 44 to 46, wherein the system
         includes two monitoring devices spaced apart along a fluid pipe, and wherein the system
        monitors a speed of travel of the acoustic signal between the two monitoring devices to
        thereby determine a flow of fluid within the pipe.
48)A monitoring system according to any one of the claims 1 to 47, wherein the system:
         a) analyses signals from an acoustic sensor to determine changes in noise levels outside
               the housing; and,
         b) using changes in noise levels to determine at least one of:
               i)    changes in operation of remote machines;
               ii) changes in a machine environment;
               iii) movement of the monitoring device;
               iv) changes in operation of the monitoring device; and,
               v) if the housing has been breached.
49)A monitoring system according to claim 48, wherein the acoustic sensor is mounted in
        recess on an external surface of the housing.
50)A monitoring system according to any one of the claims 1 to 49, wherein the system
         includes at least one hub that:
         a) receives sensor data from a plurality of monitoring devices; and,
         b) transfers the sensor data to the one or more processing devices via a communications
               network.
51)A monitoring system according to claim 50, wherein the hub and monitoring devices
         communicate using a short range wireless communications protocol.
52)A monitoring device for use in monitoring a machine, the monitoring device including:
         a) a housing;
         b) a coupling that physically attaches the housing to the machine;

H:\jr\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\LJR\ 17039940 1.docx-23/05/2018
                                                              -48
         c) a plurality of sensors, the plurality of sensors including a vibration sensor that senses
               vibration of the machine transmitted to the vibration sensor at least in part via the
               coupling;
         d) monitoring device processor that generates sensor data in accordance with signals
               from the sensors; and,
         e) a transmitter that transmits the sensor data, allowing the sensor data to be transferred
               via a communications network.
53)A method for monitoring a machine, the method including:
         a) receiving sensor data from a monitoring device attached to the machine, the sensor
               data being generated at least in part based on signals from a plurality of sensors, the
               plurality of sensors including a vibration sensor that senses vibration of the machine
               transmitted to the monitoring device via a coupling;
        b) analysing the sensor data to determine a machine status; and,
         c) at least one of:
               i)   store an indication of the machine status; and,
               ii) cause an indication of a machine status to be displayed.
54)A method according to claim 53, wherein the method includes:
         a) using signals from one or more sensors to generate reference data indicative of the
               reference behavior, the reference data being indicative of at least one of:
               i)   signals from the one or more sensors;
               ii) parameters derived from signals from the one or more sensors;
               iii) patterns derived from signals from the one or more sensors;
               iv) reference thresholds derived from the signals from the one or more sensors; and,
               v) reference ranges derived from the signals from the one or more sensors; and,
        b) determining a machine status at least in part based on the reference data and signals
               from the one or more sensors.
55)A method according to claim 54, wherein the method includes:
         a) determining operational data using signals from the one or more sensors, the
               operational data being based on at least one of:
               i)   signals from the one or more sensors;
               ii) parameters derived from signals from the one or more sensors; and,

H:\jr\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\LJR\ 17039940 1.docx-23/05/2018
                                                              - 49
               iii) patterns derived from signals from the one or more sensors; and,
        b) comparing the operational data to the reference data.
56)A method according to claim 54 or claim 55, wherein the parameters include at least one
        of:
         a) a noise level;
        b) a noise frequency;
         c) a temperature;
         d) a temperature change;
         e) a rate of temperature change;
         f) a vibration frequency;
         g) a vibration magnitude;
         h) a vibration pattern;
         i)    a vibration change; and,
        j)     a rate of vibration change.
57)A method according to any one of the claims 53 to 56, wherein the method includes
        assessing the machine status at least in part using machine learning techniques.
58)A method according to claim 57, wherein the method includes using machine learning
        techniques to:
         a) identify at least one category of behavior for the machine from the reference
               behavior; and,
        b) determine the machine status by analyzing signals from the one or more sensors to
               categorize a current behavior based on the at least one category.
59)A method according to any one of the claims 53 to 58, wherein the method includes
        analysing signals from the one or more sensors with respect to reference behavior
        determined during corresponding time intervals during which the machine is expected to
        exhibit similar behavior.
60)A method according to any one of the claims 53 to 59, wherein the method includes:
         a) monitoring changes in machine status over time; and,
        b) at least one of:
                    (1) storing an indication of changes in machine status as part of machine status
                            data associated with respective machine;

H:\ljr\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\LJR\ 17039940 _.docx-23/05/2018
                                                               - 50
                     (2) causing a status indication indicative of the change in machine status to be
                            displayed.
61)A method for filling a microphone housing with acoustic gel, the method including:
         a) providing at least one microphone housing containing a microphone in a vacuum
               chamber;
         b) progressively removing air from the vacuum chamber; and,
         c) introducing an acoustic gel into the vacuum chamber so that the gel enters the
               microphone housing through a microphone housing opening.
62)A method according to claim 61, wherein the method includes preheating the acoustic gel.
63)A method according to claim 62, wherein the method includes removing air from the
         vacuum chamber until the vacuum chamber reaches a predetermined pressure, and
         wherein the pressure is at least one of:
         a) less than 50 kPa;
         b) less than 10 kPa;
         c) less than 5 kPa;
         d) less than 1 kPa; and,
         e) less than 0.1 kPa.
64)A method according to any one of the claims 61 to 63, wherein microphone is a
         microelectromechanical microphone.
65)A method according to any one of the claims 61 to 64, wherein acoustic gel is at least one
         of:
         a) a temperature resistant gel; and,
         b) a room temperature vulcanization silicone gel.
66)A method according to any one of the claims 61 to 65, wherein microphone is mounted
         on a circuit board with the microphone housing opening adjacent a circuit board opening
         so that the circuit board opening fills with acoustic gel.

<removed-date>
                                <U+2701> <U+2702>
                                          <U+2721>
              <U+271F>
                       <U+2720><U+271F>
<removed-apn>
                   <U+261B>        <U+2702>
                                      <U+2720>
                            <U+2702>
                   <U+2720>        <U+2702>
                  <U+2702><U+271F>
                            <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E>

<removed-date>
                      <U+2720><U+2701> <U+2702>
                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+271E><U+2720><U+271F><U+2721><U+271D>       <U+2720><U+271F><U+271F>
                    <U+271F><U+2706><U+261B><U+2720><U+261E><U+270C><U+271F>
<removed-apn>
              <U+270D><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+271D><U+261E><U+270E><U+271E> <U+271F><U+271E><U+2720><U+271F><U+2721><U+271D> <U+270F><U+261E><U+270E><U+261E>    <U+2720> <U+271F>
              <U+2717><U+271D><U+261E><U+2720><U+271F><U+2718><U+2706><U+270E> <U+271F><U+271E><U+2720><U+271F><U+2721><U+271D> <U+270F><U+261E><U+270E><U+261E>    <U+2720><U+2720><U+271F>
              <U+2711><U+271E><U+2702><U+271E><U+2706><U+2712><U+271E> <U+271F><U+271E><U+2720><U+271F><U+2721><U+271D> <U+270F><U+261E><U+270E><U+261E>     <U+2720><U+2702><U+271F>
              <U+2701><U+2720><U+261E><U+270C><U+2713><U+271F><U+271E> <U+271F><U+271E><U+2720><U+271F><U+2721><U+271D> <U+270F><U+261E><U+270E><U+261E>     <U+2720><U+261B><U+271F>
                  <U+2714><U+270E><U+2721><U+271D><U+271E><U+2701><U+270F><U+2706><U+271F><U+2715><U+270C><U+261E><U+2713>       <U+2720><U+2719><U+271F>
               <U+2706><U+2720><U+270F><U+2706><U+2702><U+261E><U+270E><U+2706><U+2721><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2716> <U+271F><U+270E><U+261E><U+270E><U+260E><U+271F>
                    <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D>

<removed-date>
              <U+2702><U+271F><U+271F>                 <U+2702><U+2701> <U+2702>
                    <U+2702> <U+271F>          <U+2702> <U+271F>             <U+2702> <U+271F>
                     <U+2702> <U+261B>   <U+2702> <U+2702>    <U+2702> <U+261B>     <U+2702> <U+2702>     <U+2702> <U+261B>   <U+2702> <U+2702>
<removed-apn>
                    <U+2702>      <U+2702> <U+2702>    <U+2702>       <U+2702> <U+2702>    <U+2702>      <U+2702> <U+2702>
                    <U+2702> <U+2720>    <U+2702> <U+2702>    <U+2702> <U+2720>     <U+2702> <U+2702>    <U+2702> <U+2720>    <U+2702> <U+2702>
                                           <U+2702><U+261B><U+2720>
                                  <U+2702><U+261B>
                           <U+2702><U+261B><U+271F>             <U+2702><U+261B><U+2702>
                                  <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
                                                        <U+2702><U+260E><U+271F>
                    <U+2702><U+260E><U+271F>
                                         <U+2702><U+2702><U+271F>
                                 <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D>

<removed-date>
              <U+2704><U+2704><U+2701>                <U+261B><U+2701> <U+2702>
                      <U+2701><U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+2702>
<removed-apn>
                             <U+2701>
                      <U+2701><U+260E>
                                         <U+2701><U+2704>
                            <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271F>
                                        <U+2702><U+2702>
                <U+2704><U+271E><U+2701>
                      <U+2706><U+2701><U+2701>               <U+2706><U+2701><U+2702>
                            <U+2706><U+2701>
                      <U+2706><U+2701><U+260E>
                                        <U+2706><U+2701><U+2704>
                             <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271D>

<removed-date>
                                   <U+2719><U+2701> <U+2702>
                <U+271F>
                                          <U+260E><U+271F><U+2720>     <U+260E> <U+2702>
                       <U+260E><U+271F><U+260E>       <U+260E><U+271F><U+2719>
                                                         <U+260E><U+271F><U+2719>
<removed-apn>
              <U+260E> <U+261B>
                                                                <U+260E> <U+271F>
                                                 <U+260E><U+271F><U+2702>
                    <U+260E><U+271F><U+2702>                                 <U+260E><U+271F>
                             <U+260E><U+271F><U+261B>
                                 <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D>     <U+2701>
                                        <U+260E> <U+2702>
                    <U+260E> <U+2702><U+2704><U+2702>
                                                         <U+260E> <U+2702><U+2704>
                    <U+260E> <U+2702><U+2704><U+2720>
                          <U+260E><U+271F><U+2702><U+2704>
                                              <U+260E><U+271F><U+2702><U+2704><U+2720>
                                          <U+260E><U+271F><U+2702>
                                 <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D>     <U+260E>

<removed-date>
                                          <U+260E><U+2701> <U+2702>
                    <U+271F>
                              <U+260E><U+2720><U+2702>     <U+260E><U+2720><U+2720>                 <U+260E><U+271F><U+2720>
<removed-apn>
              <U+260E><U+2720><U+261B>             <U+260E><U+2720>
                        <U+260E><U+271F><U+2702>                                     <U+260E><U+271F>
                                    <U+260E><U+271F><U+261B>
                                      <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D>
                        <U+260E><U+2720><U+2702>                          <U+260E><U+271F>
              <U+260E><U+2720><U+261B>       <U+260E><U+271F><U+2702>
                                    <U+260E><U+271F><U+261B>
                                      <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D>       <U+2701>

<removed-date>
                               <U+2702><U+2701>    <U+2702>
                        <U+260E><U+2702><U+2720>
<removed-apn>
                  <U+260E><U+2702><U+271F>
                  <U+260E><U+2702>
                                               <U+260E><U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2721>
                                         <U+260E><U+271F><U+271F>
                              <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D>

<removed-date>
                               <U+2701> <U+2702>
                      <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2706><U+261B><U+2720><U+261E><U+270C><U+271F> <U+2716><U+271D><U+2721><U+2718>   <U+2702><U+271F><U+271F>
                            <U+271F><U+271E><U+2720><U+271F><U+2721><U+271D><U+271F>
                       <U+2706><U+2715><U+270E><U+2706><U+2721><U+2720><U+261E><U+270C><U+270C><U+2713> <U+2715><U+271D><U+2721><U+2702><U+271E><U+271F><U+271F>
                                             <U+2702><U+271F><U+2719>
<removed-apn>
                            <U+271F><U+2706><U+261B><U+2720><U+261E><U+270C><U+271F>
              <U+2702>   <U+271F>
                      <U+270D><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+271D><U+261E><U+270E><U+271E> <U+271F><U+271E><U+2720><U+271F><U+2721><U+271D> <U+270F><U+261E><U+270E><U+261E>   <U+2702>   <U+271F>
                      <U+2717><U+271D><U+261E><U+2720><U+271F><U+2716><U+271E><U+271D> <U+271F><U+271E><U+2720><U+271F><U+2721><U+271D> <U+270F><U+261E><U+270E><U+261E>   <U+2702><U+2719>
                             <U+270E><U+2721> <U+2702><U+260E><U+2704>
                      <U+2717><U+271D><U+261E><U+2720><U+271F><U+2716><U+271E><U+271D> <U+271F><U+271E><U+2720><U+271F><U+2721><U+271D> <U+270F><U+261E><U+270E><U+261E>   <U+2702><U+2720><U+271F>
                           <U+270E><U+2721> <U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2712><U+271E><U+271D>
                       <U+260E><U+271E><U+270E><U+271E><U+271D><U+2718><U+2706><U+2720><U+271E> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2712><U+2706><U+2702><U+271E>
                            <U+2706><U+270F><U+271E><U+2720><U+270E><U+2706><U+2716><U+2706><U+271E><U+271D>       <U+2702><U+2720><U+2719>
                       <U+2711><U+271E><U+270E><U+271D><U+2706><U+271E><U+2712><U+271E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2716><U+271E><U+271D><U+271E><U+2720><U+2702><U+271E>    <U+2702><U+2702><U+271F>
                              <U+270F><U+261E><U+270E><U+261E>
                              <U+2702><U+2702><U+2719>
                           <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+2701>    <U+2701>

<removed-date>
                                                 <U+2701> <U+2702>
                                                <U+2702><U+2702><U+271F>
<removed-apn>
                                     <U+2701><U+2720><U+261E><U+270C><U+2713><U+271F><U+271E> <U+271F><U+271E><U+2720><U+271F><U+2721><U+271D> <U+270F><U+261E><U+270E><U+261E>          <U+2702><U+2702><U+2719>
                                      <U+260E><U+271E><U+270E><U+271E><U+271D><U+2718><U+2706><U+2720><U+271E> <U+271F><U+270E><U+261E><U+270E><U+260E><U+271F>            <U+2702><U+261B><U+271F>
                                    <U+260E><U+271E><U+270E><U+271E><U+271D><U+2718><U+2706><U+2720><U+271E> <U+2718><U+2721><U+2712><U+271E><U+2718><U+271E><U+2720><U+270E>
                                            <U+2721><U+271D> <U+2706><U+2720><U+270E><U+271E><U+261B><U+271D><U+2706><U+270E><U+2713>          <U+2702><U+261B><U+2719>
                                           <U+2701><U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+270F>
                            <U+2702><U+271E><U+271F>                                    <U+2701><U+2721>
                                                <U+2702><U+2719><U+271F>
              <U+2702><U+2719><U+2719>   <U+270D><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+271D><U+261E><U+270E><U+271E> <U+2720><U+2721><U+270E><U+2706><U+2716><U+2706><U+2702><U+261E><U+270E><U+2706><U+2721><U+2720>                   <U+2714><U+270E><U+2721><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+271E><U+2720><U+271F><U+2721><U+271D> <U+270F><U+261E><U+270E><U+261E>    <U+2702><U+260E><U+2719>
                                                              <U+261E><U+2720><U+270F> <U+261E><U+2720><U+261E><U+270C><U+2713><U+271F><U+2706><U+271F>
              <U+2702><U+260E><U+271F>
                      <U+2717><U+271D><U+261E><U+2720><U+271F><U+2716><U+271E><U+271D> <U+270E><U+2721> <U+2702><U+270C><U+2706><U+271E><U+2720><U+270E>                       <U+270D><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+271D><U+261E><U+270E><U+271E>          <U+2702><U+2702><U+271F>
                          <U+270F><U+271E><U+2712><U+2706><U+2702><U+271E>                             <U+271D><U+271E><U+2715><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E><U+2720><U+270E><U+261E><U+270E><U+2706><U+2721><U+2720>
                                                            <U+260E><U+2706><U+271F><U+2715><U+270C><U+261E><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2706><U+261E> <U+2702><U+270C><U+2706><U+271E><U+2720><U+270E>   <U+2702><U+2702><U+2719>
                                                                 <U+270F><U+271E><U+2712><U+2706><U+2702><U+271E>
                                            <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+2701><U+260E>

<removed-date>
                             <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704>
<removed-apn>
                                              <U+2720>
                                              <U+271F>
                                              <U+271E>
                                              <U+271D><U+2706>
                                              <U+260E>
                                    <U+261E><U+261E>
                        <U+261E><U+261E>          <U+2721>
                        <U+2721>
                                         <U+261E><U+261E>
                                         <U+2721>
                   <U+261B>
              <U+261B><U+261B>   <U+261E><U+2721>
              <U+2721>

<removed-date>
                           <U+2702> <U+2704>
                       <U+2701>         <U+260E>   <U+2706>
                   <U+2701>
                       <U+2721>
                       <U+2702>
                                 <U+2721>
                                 <U+2702>
                                         <U+2721>
                                         <U+2702>
                   <U+2721>
                   <U+2701>
<removed-apn>
                                             <U+271F>
                                             <U+271E>
                                             <U+271D><U+2706>
                                             <U+260E>
                   <U+261E>   <U+261E>         <U+2702>
                                     <U+2704>
              <U+261B><U+261B>   <U+2721>
                   <U+2701>
                       <U+2721>
                       <U+2702>
                                 <U+2721>
                                 <U+2702>
                                         <U+2721>
                                         <U+2702>
              <U+2721>

<removed-date>
                      <U+2720><U+2701> <U+2702>
              <U+2711><U+271E><U+2702><U+271E><U+2706><U+2712><U+271E> <U+271F><U+271E><U+2720><U+271F><U+2721><U+271D> <U+270F><U+261E><U+270E><U+261E>   <U+271F><U+271F>
               <U+2711><U+271E><U+2712><U+2706><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2702><U+2706><U+271F><U+270E><U+2721><U+271D><U+2706><U+2702><U+261E><U+270C>
<removed-apn>
                                    <U+271F><U+2719>
                 <U+271F><U+271E><U+2720><U+271F><U+2721><U+271D> <U+270F><U+261E><U+270E><U+261E>
                <U+270F><U+271E><U+2720><U+270E><U+2706><U+2716><U+2713> <U+2715><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+2721><U+270F><U+2706><U+2702>
                                     <U+271F>
                   <U+2715><U+261E><U+270E><U+270E><U+271E><U+271D><U+2720><U+271F>
              <U+2714><U+271E><U+261B><U+2718><U+271E><U+2720><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2716><U+271E><U+271D><U+271E><U+2720><U+2702><U+271E>
                                    <U+2719>
                   <U+270F><U+261E><U+270E><U+261E>
               <U+260E><U+271E><U+2716><U+2706><U+2720><U+271E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2716><U+271E><U+271D><U+271E><U+2720><U+2702><U+271E>
                                    <U+2720><U+271F>
                    <U+271D><U+261E><U+2720><U+261B><U+271E><U+271F>
              <U+270D><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+271D><U+261E><U+270E><U+271E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2716><U+271E><U+271D><U+271E><U+2720><U+2702><U+271E>
                                    <U+2720><U+2719>
                    <U+270F><U+261E><U+270E><U+261E>
                   <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D>   <U+2701>

<removed-date>
                       <U+2702><U+2701> <U+2702>
              <U+2711><U+271E><U+2702><U+271E><U+2706><U+2712><U+271E> <U+271F><U+271E><U+2720><U+271F><U+2721><U+271D> <U+270F><U+261E><U+270E><U+261E>     <U+271F><U+271F><U+271F>
                <U+260E><U+271E><U+270E><U+271E><U+271D><U+2718><U+2706><U+2720><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2706><U+261B><U+2720><U+261E><U+270C>
<removed-apn>
                                      <U+271F><U+271F><U+2719>
                   <U+2715><U+261E><U+271D><U+261E><U+2718><U+271E><U+270E><U+271E><U+271D><U+271F>
              <U+260E><U+271E><U+270E><U+271E><U+271D><U+2718><U+2706><U+2720><U+271E> <U+270E><U+2706><U+2718><U+271E> <U+2715><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706><U+2721><U+270F>   <U+271F> <U+271F>
               <U+2711><U+271E><U+270E><U+271D><U+2706><U+271E><U+2712><U+271E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2716><U+271E><U+271D><U+271E><U+2720><U+2702><U+271E>
                                      <U+271F> <U+2719>
               <U+2715><U+261E><U+271D><U+261E><U+2718><U+271E><U+270E><U+271E><U+271D> <U+271D><U+261E><U+2720><U+261B><U+271E><U+271F>
                    <U+2721><U+2718><U+2715><U+261E><U+271D><U+271E> <U+270E><U+2721>
                                      <U+271F><U+2720><U+271F>
                <U+2715><U+261E><U+271D><U+261E><U+2718><U+271E><U+270E><U+271E><U+271D> <U+271D><U+261E><U+2720><U+261B><U+271E><U+271F>
                <U+270D><U+271E><U+2720><U+271E><U+271D><U+261E><U+270E><U+271E> <U+271F><U+270E><U+261E><U+270E><U+260E><U+271F>
                                      <U+271F><U+2720><U+2719>
                  <U+2706><U+2720><U+270F><U+2706><U+2702><U+261E><U+270E><U+2706><U+2721><U+2720>
                    <U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E><U+2701>

