        TRANSGENIC PLANTS AND FUNGI CAPABLE OF METABOLIZING
                    PHOSPHITE AS A SOURCE OF PHOSPHORUS
                                          Abstract
        System, including methods and compositions, for making and using transgenic plants
and/or transgenic fungi that metabolize phosphite as a source of phosphorus for supporting
growth.

                                        1
        TRANSGENIC PLANTS AND FUNGI CAPABLE OF METABOLIZING
                   PHOSPHITE AS A SOURCE OF PHOSPHORUS
                       Cross-Reference to Priority Application
 5         This application is based upon and claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C.
   § 119(e), the Paris Convention priority right, and any and all other applicable
   law of U.S.     Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 61/199,784, filed
   November 19, 2008, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for
   all purposes.
10                                    Introduction
           Phosphorus is an essential element for plant and fungal growth. This
   element, in oxidized form, is incorporated into many of the biomolecules in a
   plant or fungal cell, such as to provide genetic material, membranes, and
   molecular messengers, among others.
15         Inorganic phosphate (Pi) is the primary source of phosphorus for plants.
   Accordingly, phosphate-based fertilizers offer a cheap and widely used
   approach to enhancing plant growth. However, phosphate-based fertilizers
   come from a non-renewable resource that has been projected to be depleted in
   the next seventy to one hundred years, or sooner if the usage rate increases
20 faster than expected.
           The phosphate-based fertilizers common to modern agriculture generally
   cannot be used efficiently by cultivated plants, due to several important factors.
   First, phosphate is highly reactive and can form insoluble complexes with many
   soil components, which reduces the amount of available phosphorus. Second,
25 soil microorganisms can rapidly convert phosphate into organic molecules that
   generally cannot be metabolized efficiently by plants, which reduces the
   amount of available phosphorus further. Third, growth of weeds can be
   stimulated by phosphate-based fertilizers, which not only reduces the amount
   of available phosphorus still further but which also can encourage the weeds to
30 compete with the cultivated plants for space and other nutrients. Losses due to
   the conversion of phosphate into inorganic and organic forms that are not
   readily available for plant uptake and utilization, and competition from weeds,
   implies the use of excessive amounts of phosphate fertilizer, which not only

                                         2
   increases production costs but also causes severe ecological problems.
   Therefore, there is an urgent need to reduce the amount of phosphate fertilizer
   used in agriculture.
            A reduced form of phosphate, phosphite (Phi), is also used in cultivation
 5 of plants. It has been shown that treatment with phosphite can increase plant
   production (as measured by fruit size and biomass) in avocado and citrus fruits.
   Phosphite may be transported into plants using the same transport system as
   phosphate and may accumulate in plant tissues for extended periods of time.
   However, there apparently are no reports of any enzymes in plants that can
10 metabolize phosphite into phosphate, the primary source of phosphorus in
   plants. Moreover, even during phosphate starvation, phosphite apparently
   cannot     satisfy  the  phosphorus      nutritional   requirements    of the   plant.
   Accordingly, in spite of similarities to phosphate, phosphite is a form of
   phosphorus that generally cannot be metabolized directly by plants, and thus is
15 not a plant nutrient. Nevertheless, phosphite "fertilizers" are sold commercially,
   even though there appears be no proof or even an indication in the scientific
   literature that plants can assimilate phosphite.
            Phosphite can promote plant growth indirectly. For example, phosphite
   is used as an anti-fungal agent (a fungicide) on cultivated plants. Phosphite is
20 thought to prevent diseases caused by oomycetes (water molds) on such
   diverse plants as potato, tobacco, avocado, and papaya, among others.
   Phosphite thus may promote plant growth, not directly as a plant nutrient, but
   by protecting plants from fungal pathogens that would otherwise affect plant
   growth.     Nevertheless, phosphite-based fungicides often are labeled as
25 fertilizers. This mislabeling may be encouraged by government regulations that
   make the approval process shorter and less complex if manufacturers
   characterize fungicides as fertilizers.
            The proposed mechanisms for phosphite acting as a fungicide are
   manifold.     For   example,    phosphite     may     act   on   fungi  by  inhibiting
30 phosphorylation reactions through         an increment in the accumulation of
   inorganic pyrophosphate (PPi), which in turn can interrupt phosphate pathways
   that are metabolically critical. Alternatively, or in addition, phosphite may induce

                                        3
   a natural defense response in plants. In any event, the efficacy of phosphite as
   a fungicide may be influenced by several factors, including environment, type of
   pathogen, type of plant, and concentration.
           The concentration of phosphite in contact with plants may be a critical
 5 factor for phosphite effectiveness because too much phosphite can be toxic to
   plants. In particular, phosphite may compete with phosphate for entry into plant
   cells, since phosphite may be transported into plants via the phosphate
   transport system. Phosphite toxicity thus         may be due to (1) reduced
   assimilation of phosphate by plants, in combination with (2) an inability to use
10 phosphite as a source of phosphorus by oxidation to phosphate, which causes
   phosphite accumulation in the plants. Also, phosphite may be sensed in plants
   as phosphate, which prevents the plants from inducing a phosphorus salvage
   pathway that promotes plant survival under conditions of low phosphate.
   Phosphite toxicity affects such diverse plants as Brassica nigra, Allium cepa
15 (onion), Zea mays L. (corn), and Arabidopsis thaliana. Accordingly, the
   exposure of plants to phosphite may need to be controlled very carefully.
   Therefore, a better system is needed for exploiting the benefits of phosphite to
   plants while reducing its drawbacks.
           Generation of transgenic plants has been instrumental in creating
20 improved agricultural systems. At least four selection systems have been
   established for identifying transgenic plants by selective growth. Each selection
   system is based on resistance to an antibiotic (kanamycin or hygromycin) or an
   herbicide (glyphosate or phosphinothricin). However, each selection system
   has disadvantages. For example, each selection system can have problems
25 with toxicity. Also, selection with antibiotics may be inefficient since plants can
   have alternate resistance mechanisms. Furthermore, except for the selection
   system using phosphinothricin, none of the selection systems provides a
   "universal" selectable marker for most or all plants. Therefore, a new selectable
   marker is needed for use in generating transgenic plants.

                                        4
                                        Summary
           The present disclosure provides a system, including methods and
   compositions, for making and using transgenic plants and/or transgenic fungi
   that metabolize phosphite as a source of phosphorus for supporting growth.
 5                         Brief Description of the Drawings
           Figure 1 is a schematic flowchart of an exemplary method of (i) making a
   transgenic plant (or fungus) that is capable of metabolizing a reduced form of
   phosphorus, such as phosphite, as a source of phosphorus for supporting
   growth, and/or (ii) using, as a selectable marker, a nucleic acid that confers a
10 capability to metabolize a reduced form of phosphorus, such as phosphite, as a
   source of phosphorus for supporting growth, in accordance with aspects of the
   present disclosure.
           Figure 2 is a schematic representation an exemplary nucleic acid for use
   in the method of Fig. 1, in accordance with aspects of the present disclosure.
15         Figure 3 is a proposed mechanism for oxidation of hypophosphite to
   phosphate in bacteria using enzymes expressed from the ptxD and htxA genes
   of Pseudomonas stutzeri, in accordance with aspects of the present disclosure.
           Figure 4 is a schematic representation of an exemplary chimeric gene
   constructed for use in generating a transgenic plant that metabolizes phosphite
20 to phosphate, in accordance with aspects of the present disclosure.
           Figure 5 is a schematic diagram of a portion of a strategy followed to
   create the chimeric gene of Fig. 4, in accordance with aspects of the present
   disclosure.
           Figure 6 is a pair of photographs showing exemplary data obtained with
25 the chimeric gene of Fig. 4 used as a selectable marker by selection of
   transgenic plants for their ability to grow on a phosphite-containing medium in
   the absence of phosphate, in accordance with aspects of the present
   disclosure.
           Figure 7 is a series of photographs of data obtained from growth tests of
30 control and transgenic (ptxD) Arabidopsis lines germinated and cultivated in a
   liquid growth medium, with or without phosphite (Phi) or phosphate (Pi) as the
   source of phosphorus, in accordance with aspects of the present disclosure.

                                       5
           Figure 8 is a bar graph of data obtained from tests of the ability of the
   Arabidopsis lines of Fig. 7 to extract phosphorus from their growth media, with
   the plants cultivated for 45 days in growth          media containing different
   concentrations of phosphite (Phi) as the source of phosphorus, in accordance
 5 with aspects of the present disclosure.
           Figure 9 is a schematic representation of the distribution of control (WT)
   and ptxD transgenic (PTXD) Arabidopsis plants across a growth substrate, as
   used for the experiments of Figs. 10 and 11, in accordance with aspects of the
   present disclosure.
10         Figure 10 is a photograph of parental and ptxD transgenic plants
   distributed according to Fig. 9 and tested for growth on a substrate containing
   phosphate (Pi) as the source of phosphorus, in accordance with aspects of the
   present disclosure.
           Figure 11 is a photograph of parental and ptxD transgenic plants
15 distributed according to Fig. 9 and tested for growth on a substrate containing
   phosphite (Phi) as the source of phosphorus, in accordance with aspects of the
   present disclosure.
           Figure 12 is a bar graph of data obtained from tests of the ability of the
   Arabidopsis lines of Fig. 7 to increase in weight when cultivated in the absence
20 or presence of phosphate and/or phosphite as the source of phosphorus, in
   accordance with aspects of the present disclosure.
           Figure 13 is a set of photographs of control (WT) and ptxD transgenic
   lines of Nicotiana tabacum (tobacco) 25 days after germination in the presence
   of phosphate or phosphite as the source of phosphorus, in accordance with
25 aspects of the present disclosure.
           Figure 14 is a set of photographs of another growth experiment
   performed with the control and transgenic tobacco lines of Fig. 13, in
   accordance with aspects of the present disclosure.
                                 Detailed Description
30         The present disclosure provides a system, including methods and
   compositions, for making and using transgenic plants and/or transgenic fungi
   that metabolize phosphite as a source of phosphorus for supporting growth.

                                       6
   The plants and/or fungi optionally also may metabolize hypophosphite as a
   source of phosphorus. The system disclosed herein may substantially change
   the way a more reduced form of phosphorus (relative to phosphate), such as
   phosphite, is utilized as a fertilizer and/or fungicide. The system also may
 5 provide a new selectable marker for use in generating transgenic plants and/or
   fungi. The system further may substantially change the way at least one
   reduced form of phosphorus is removed            from waste water,     such as
   industrial/municipal effluents.
          A nucleic acid is provided. The nucleic acid may be used for generating
10 a transgenic plant and/or fungus. The nucleic acid, which may be termed a
   construct, may comprise at least one chimeric gene that confers on a plant cell
   and/or fungal cell a capability to metabolize at least one reduced form of
   phosphorus to phosphate. In some embodiments, the nucleic acid may
   comprise a gene that expresses a phosphite dehydrogenase enzyme, a gene
15 that expresses a hypophosphite dehydrogenase enzyme, or both.
          The nucleic acid may comprise a chimeric gene including a coding
   region and a transcription promoter. The coding region may encode a
   phosphite dehydrogenase enzyme, such as PtxD from Pseudomonas stutzeri,
   a homolog of PtxD from the same or another bacterial species, or a derivative
20 of either, among others. In some examples, the coding region may be at least
   80%, 90%, or 95% (or completely) identical to the ptxD coding sequence of
   Pseudomonas stutzeri. The promoter may be functional in plants, fungi, or both
   and may be operatively linked to the coding region. The promoter may be
   heterologous with respect to the coding region. The chimeric gene may be
25 capable of promoting sufficient expression of the enzyme, in a plant or fungal
   cell containing the nucleic acid, to confer an ability on the cell to metabolize
   phosphite (Phi) as a phosphorus source for supporting growth, thereby
   enabling growth of the cell without an external source of phosphate (Pi). The
   promoter may (or may not) be a plant promoter or a viral promoter of a plant
30 virus and may be capable of promoting the sufficient expression of the enzyme
   in a plant cell. For example, the promoter, such as a promoter obtained from
   the PLDZ2 gene of Arabidopsis thaliana, may be inducible by low phosphate

                                         7
   availability. Alternatively, or in addition, the promoter may be a root-specific
   promoter. In other cases, the promoter may              be constitutive and may
   correspond to the 35S promoter of Cauliflower Mosaic Virus. In some
   embodiments, the nucleic acid may include a transcription terminator that is
 5 functional in the plant cell and/or fungal cell and that is operatively linked to the
   promoter and coding region. In some embodiments, the promoter may be a
   fungal promoter capable of promoting the sufficient expression of the enzyme
   in a fungal cell.
           The nucleic acid may provide expression of one or more polypeptides
10 that metabolize at least one reduced form of phosphorus to phosphate, to
   enable a transgenic plant (or fungus) to use a reduced form of phosphorus as a
   nutrient. The expression of the one or more polypeptides may be heritable. For
   example, the nucleic acid may be integrated into the genome of the plant (or
   fungus). Furthermore, the expression of at least one of the polypeptides may
15 be under control of a constitutive promoter or an inducible promoter (e.g.,
   inducible by low phosphate, such as by use of a promoter from a PLDZ2 gene
   of Arabidopsis or a plant AtPT1 gene for a high affinity phosphate transporter),
   under control of a tissue-specific promoter (e.g., leaf-specific or root-specific),
   or a combination thereof, among others.
20         A plant cell or a fungal cell is provided that expresses a phosphite
   dehydrogenase enzyme from a chimeric gene. The cell may be isolated from
   other cells or may be associated with other cells in a multi-cellular structure
   (e.g., a plant or a mycelium). The cell may (or may not) also express a
   hypophosphite dehydrogenase enzyme from a chimeric gene. Accordingly, the
25 cell may metabolize phosphite, hypophosphite, or both, as a phosphorus
   source for supporting growth. In some embodiments, the cell may be a plant
   cell   and    expression    of the     phosphite   dehydrogenase      enzyme,     the
   hypophosphite dehydrogenase enzyme (if present), or both may be controlled
   by a root-specific promoter. The plant cell may be from any suitable species.
30 For example, the plant cell may be a eukaryotic algal cell, such as a
   Chlamydomonas cell. In other cases, the plant cell may be from a species of
   vascular plant. In some embodiments, the cell may be a fungal cell that belongs

                                        8
   to a species of Trichoderma or that belongs to a mycorrhizal species of fungus
   capable of forming a symbiotic relationship with a plant.
          A transgenic plant (or plant part) is provided that expresses a phosphite
   dehydrogenase enzyme, and, optionally, a hypophosphite dehydrogenase
 5 enzyme from one or more chimeric genes. The plant may, through expression
   of the enzyme(s), metabolize phosphite and/or hypophosphite as a source of
   phosphorus for supporting growth. The plant may be a vascular plant, such as
   crop plant, for example, a species of crop plant selected from the group
   consisting of maize, soybean, rice, potatoes, tomatoes, sugarcane, and wheat.
10 A seed that germinates to produce the transgenic plant also is provided.
          A method of reducing fungal infections in plants is provided. A plurality of
   fungal cells may be applied to a seed form of plants, the plants themselves, soil
   in which the plants are or will be disposed, or a combination thereof. The fungal
   cells may express a phosphite dehydrogenase enzyme from a chimeric gene
15 and may belong to a species of Trichoderma.
          A plant associated with a plurality of fungal cells to form mycorrhizae is
   provided. The fungal cells may express a phosphite dehydrogenase enzyme
   from a chimeric gene. The fungal cells may render the plant capable of growth
   on phosphite (and/or hypophosphite) as a phosphorus source by oxidizing
20 phosphite to phosphate.
          A method is provided of fertilizing a crop plant using hypophosphite
   and/or phosphite as a phosphorus source for supporting growth. The crop plant
   may    express   a   phosphite     dehydrogenase    enzyme,     a  hypophosphite
   dehydrogenase enzyme, or both. Alternatively, or in addition, the crop plant
25 may form mycorrhizae with a plurality of fungal cells expressing a phosphite
   dehydrogenase enzyme, a hypophosphite dehydrogenase enzyme, or both. At
   least  one    reduced   form     of phosphorus,    such    as   phosphite  and/or
   hypophosphite, may be applied to the plant and/or to soil adjacent the plant,
   such that the reduced form is metabolized to phosphate by the plant and/or the
30 mycorrhizae to support growth and productivity of the plant.
          A method is provided of treating liquid waste (e.g., an effluent) to lower
   its content of reduced phosphorus. Contact is created between (i) water

                                        9
   containing hypophosphite and/or phosphite as a contaminant and (ii) a plurality
   of plant cells and/or fungal cells expressing a phosphite dehydrogenase
   enzyme, a hypophosphite dehydrogenase enzyme, or both, such that at least a
   portion of the hypophosphite and/or phosphite is oxidized to phosphite and/or
 5 phosphate. In some cases, the contact may be created between the water and
   a plurality of vascular plants expressing one or both of the enzymes. The
   method may provide a bioremediation system for rivers, reservoirs, soils,
   holding tanks,    and   the   like that are   contaminated  due to    industrial
   manufacturing. For example, phosphite is a common polluting agent in rivers
10 and lakes near industrial sites, such as manufacturers of optical discs (e.g.,
   DVDs and CDs) that use hypophosphite to reduce metal ions in chemical
   plating processes. Transgenic plants and/or fungi disclosed herein thus may
   help remove hypophosphite and/or phosphite from contaminated water by
   taking up and converting the hypophosphite and/or phosphite into phosphate.
15 Use of plants and/or fungi may be more efficient than using a bacterial-based
   system.
          A method is provided of utilizing a coding sequence for a phosphite
   dehydrogenase as a selectable marker for production of a transgenic plant. The
   method may be used to obtain a plant transformed with a nucleic acid encoding
20 a phosphite dehydrogenase enzyme that is expressible from the nucleic acid as
   a selectable marker. Plant cells and a composition including the nucleic acid
   may be contacted under conditions that promote introduction of the nucleic acid
   into the plant cells. The plant cells may be cultured in a medium containing
   phosphite as a primary or exclusive phosphorus source for growth of the plant
25 cells. Selection may be performed of transformed plant cells produced by the
   steps   of contacting     and    culturing and  that  express  the   phosphite
   dehydrogenase enzyme as evidenced by growth in the medium. At least a
   portion of the transformed plant cells may be regenerated into a transgenic
   plant.
30        The transgenic plants disclosed herein may provide substantial benefits.
   For example, in some cases, the plants may metabolize phosphite using NAD+
   as an electron acceptor, to generate NADH and phosphate, which are both

                                         10
   useful molecules for the plant. The transgenic plants also or alternatively may
   provide development of a new agricultural system based on phosphite.
   Phosphite may be less reactive in the soil than phosphate and therefore may
   create fewer insoluble compounds that the plant cannot utilize. Also, since most
 5 soil microorganisms are unable to metabolize phosphite, less of the phosphite
   (relative to phosphate) is converted into organic forms that plants cannot utilize.
   Furthermore, phosphite may have less impact on the bacterial ecosystem
   around the plants relative to phosphate. Competition from weeds also may be
   reduced substantially since the weeds should not be able to utilize phosphite.
10 The use of phosphite thus should decrease fertilizer costs and reduce the
   negative impact of fertilizer on the environment.
           The transgenic plants disclosed herein also may offer increased
   effectiveness of phosphite as a fungicide, while acting as a fertilizer on the
   transgenic plants. When used as a fungicide on non-transgenic plants,
15 phosphite generally needs to be used very carefully, to avoid plant toxicity.
   However, in the transgenic plants disclosed herein, phosphite may be
   metabolized by the plant to become non-toxic.
           The system disclosed herein may provide substantial advantages for
   generating transgenic plants. A selectable marker of the system may function
20 at least substantially universally in plants. Furthermore, the selective agent
   (e.g., hypophosphite or phosphite) may be nontoxic for transgenic plants, since
   the reaction products may be innocuous (e.g., NADH and phosphate), and also
   may be less expensive than in other selection schemes.
           Further aspects of the present disclosure are provided in the following
25                                                                                use of
   sections: (I) definitions, (II) generation of transgenic plants and fungi, (111)
   transgenic plants and fungi, and (IV) examples.
   I.      Definitions
           The various terms used in the present disclosure generally each have a
   meaning recognized by those skilled in the art, consistent with the context in
30 which each term is used. However, the following terms may have additional
   and/or alternative meanings, as described below.

                                         11
           Plant - a member of the Plantae kingdom of eukaryotic organisms, which
   may be described as a tree, bush, grass, shrub, herb, vine, fern, moss, a
   eukaryotic alga, or a combination thereof, among others. A plant typically
   possesses cellulose cell walls and is capable of carrying out photosynthesis.
 5 The plant may be a vascular plant. In some embodiments, the plant may be an
   annual or a perennial. The plant may be a flowering plant, such as a
   monocotyledon or a dicotyledon. In some embodiments, the plant may produce
   a grain, tuber, fruit, vegetable, nut, seed, fiber, or a combination thereof, among
   others. Furthermore, the plant may be a crop plant, which may be cultivated in
10 a field. Exemplary crop plants that may be suitable for generation of transgenic
   plants according to the present disclosure include tobacco (e.g., N. tabacum),
   potato, maize, rice, wheat, alfalfa, soybean, tomato, sugarcane, and the like.
           Plant part - any portion of a plant that is less than a whole plant and that
   includes at least one plant cell. A plant part thus may be a plant tissue, such as
15 leaf tissue, root tissue, stem tissue, shoot tissue, callus tissue, flower tissue, or
   any combination thereof, among others. A plant part may be an isolated plant
   cell or a colony or set of plant cells. A plant cell may be a protoplast or may
   include a cell wall, among others.
           Transgenic - comprising a nucleic acid construct. The construct may be
20 integrated into an organism's (and/or cell's) genome (e.g., nuclear or plastid
   genome), in any subset or at least substantially all of the cells of the organism.
   For example, the construct may be present in a plant's germline. Accordingly,
   the construct may be heritable, that is, inherited by at least one or more
   members, or at least substantially all members, of a succeeding generation of
25 the organism, or in descendants of a cell. A plant or fungus (or plant or fungal
   part (e.g., a cell)) that is "transformed" with a construct has been modified to
   contain the      construct   in the    current generation or in      any preceding
   generation(s) of the plant or fungus (or plant or fungal part). A transgenic plant
   may be provided by a seed that germinates to form the transgenic plant. Also, a
30 transgenic plant may produce one or more seeds that germinate to produce
   transgenic progeny plants.

                                         12
           Nucleic acid - a compound comprising a chain of nucleotides. The chain
   may be composed of any suitable number of nucleotides, such as at least
   about 10, 100, or 1000, among others. A nucleic acid may be termed a
   polynucleotide, and may, for example, be single-stranded, double-stranded, or
 5 a combination thereof.
           Gene - a nucleic acid or segment thereof that provides an expressible
   unit for expression of a polypeptide and/or a functional RNA (e.g., a messenger
   RNA, an interfering RNA, or an enzymatic RNA, among others). A gene thus
   may include (a) a coding region (also termed a coding sequence, which may be
10 continuous or interrupted (such as by one or more introns)) to define the
   sequence of the polypeptide and/or functional               RNA, (b) at least one
   transcription promoter (also termed a promoter sequence) and, (c) optionally, at
   least one transcription terminator (also termed a termination sequence), with
   the transcription promoter and the transcription terminator operatively linked to
15 the coding region. A gene optionally may include one or more other control
   regions and/or untranslated regions, such as at least one 5' untranslated
   region, 3' untranslated region, intron, or any combination thereof, among
   others.
           Promoter - a nucleic acid region that controls (i.e., promotes, regulates,
20 and/or drives) transcription of a gene to produce a primary transcript and/or a
   messenger RNA. A promoter may operate, for example, by determining, at
   least in part, the rate of transcriptional initiation of a gene by RNA polymerase.
   The promoter also or alternatively may determine the rate of transcriptional
   elongation after transcription is initiated. The promoter may be functional in
25 plants and/or fungi and thus may be a plant promoter and/or a fungal promoter.
           Chimeric gene - a gene with sequence elements, such as a transcription
   promoter and a coding region, that are heterologous with respect to one
   another. The term "heterologous" means that the sequence elements (e.g., the
   promoter and coding region) originate and/or are derived from respective
30 distinct sources, such as distinct species of organisms. A chimeric gene also
   may comprise a transcription terminator, which may originate from a source
   distinct from the coding region, and from the same source as, or a source

                                       13
   distinct from, the promoter. Exemplary terminators that may be used in the
   chimeric genes include the 35S terminator of Cauliflower Mosaic Virus, the
   nopaline synthase terminator of Agrobacterium tumefaciens, or the like.
           Construct - a nucleic acid created, at least in part, using techniques of
 5 genetic engineering. A construct thus may be termed a nucleic acid construct.
           Expression - a process by which a product, namely, an RNA and/or a
   polypeptide, is formed from information provided by a nucleic acid and/or gene,
   generally in the form of DNA. Accordingly, the nucleic acid/gene may be
   expressed to form an RNA and/or polypeptide, which means that the RNA
10 and/or polypeptide is expressed from the nucleic acid/gene.
           Reduced forms of phosphorus - any phosphorus-containing compounds
   and/or ions in which phosphorus has an oxidation state of less than +5, such as
   +3 or +1. Accordingly, reduced forms of phosphorus may, for example, include
   phosphite and hypophosphite, among others. A reduced form of phosphorus
15 may be abbreviated "RP."
           Phosphate - phosphoric acid (H3 PO4), its dibasic form (H2 PO 4 1-), its
   monobasic form (HPO 4 ), its triply ionized form (P0          3 ), or any combination
                                                               4
   thereof. Phosphate may be provided as any suitable phosphate compound or
   combination of phosphate compounds. Exemplary forms of phosphate include
20 phosphate salts of sodium, potassium, lithium, rubidium, cesium, ammonium,
   calcium, or magnesium, or any combination thereof, among others. In
   phosphate, four oxygens are bonded directly to a phosphorus atom. Phosphate
   also or alternatively may be called "orthophosphate" and/or                 "inorganic
   phosphate" and may be abbreviated as "Pi." Phosphate is distinct from
25 "organophosphate," which is an organic version of phosphate in which one or
   more of the phosphate oxygens are bonded to organic moieties, generally to
   form a phosphate ester.
           Phosphite - phosphorous acid (H3 PO3 ), its conjugate base/singly ionized
                                                      2
   form (H2PO31-), or its doubly ionized form (HP0  3   -), or any combination thereof.
30 In phosphite, three oxygens and one hydrogen are bonded directly to a
   phosphorus atom. Phosphite may be provided as any suitable phosphite
   compound or combination of phosphite compounds. Exemplary forms of

                                        14
   phosphite include phosphite salts of sodium, potassium, lithium, rubidium,
   cesium, ammonium, calcium, or magnesium, or any combination thereof,
   among others. Phosphite can be oxidized to phosphate. Phosphite also or
   alternatively may be called "inorganic phosphite" and may be abbreviated as
 5 "Phi." Phosphite is distinct from "organophosphite," which is an organic version
   of phosphite in which one or more of the phosphite oxygens are bonded to
   organic moieties, generally to form a phosphite ester.
           Hypophosphite - hypophosphorous acid (H3PO 2 ) and/or its conjugate
   base (H2 PO2), which may be provided as any suitable hypophosphite
10 compound or combination of hypophosphite compounds. In hypophosphite, two
   oxygens and two hydrogens are bonded directly to a phosphorus atom.
   Exemplary forms of hypophosphite include hypophosphite salts of sodium,
   potassium, lithium, rubidium, cesium, ammonium, or a combination thereof,
   among others. Hypophosphite can be oxidized to phosphite and/or to
15 phosphate. Hypophosphite also or alternatively may be called "inorganic
   hypophosphite" and may be abbreviated as "Hphi."
           Nutrient - any substance that is metabolized to promote growth and
   reproduction, and/or is required for survival.
           Fertilizer - any composition that includes one or more nutrients for plants
20 (and/or fungi associated with the plants).
           External Source - a supply that is outside of a plant and accessible to
   the plant, generally by contact with the plant. Exemplary external sources that
   may be suitable for the transgenic plants described herein may include an
   external source of phosphorus, an external source of phosphate, or an external
25 source of reduced phosphorus, among others.
          Selectable Marker - a construct or segment thereof and/or a gene that
   confers a growth advantage on a plant or plant part (and/or a fungus and/or
   fungal cell) that contains the construct/gene, when growth of the plant or plant
   part (and/or fungus and/or fungal cell) is tested by contact with a suitable
30 culture medium.
           Effluent - water carrying and/or mixed with waste material. An effluent
   may or may not be flowing. An exemplary effluent may, for example, be

                                       15
   industrial refuse and/or sewage, which may be combined with a larger body of
   water, such as a stream, river, pond, lake, swamp, wetland, or the like.
           Remediation - any process that modifies water (e.g., waste water and/or
   an effluent) to a more desired composition, such as to make the water less
 5 toxic, more environmental friendly, in better conformation with government
   standards, etc.
           Enzyme that oxidizes a reduced form of phosphorus - an enzyme that
   catalyzes or promotes oxidation of a reduced form of phosphorus (e.g., with an
   oxidation state of +1 or +3) to a more oxidized state (e.g., +1 to +3, +1 to +5,
10 and/or +3 to +5). For example, the enzyme may oxidize hypophosphite to
   phosphite, phosphite to phosphate, and/or hypophosphite to phosphate, among
   others. For convenience, the enzyme may be termed an "oxidase," since it
   catalyzes/promotes an oxidation reaction, or may be called a "phosphorus
   oxidoreductase" or "enzyme of reduced phosphorus metabolism," and may be
15 abbreviated, for convenience herein, as "RP-OxRe." Exemplary enzymes that
   oxidize a reduced form of phosphorus may include a phosphite dehydrogenase
   enzyme (which may, for example, be called NAD:phosphite oxidoreductase,
   phosphonate dehydrogenase, NAD-dependent phosphite dehydrogenase, or
   the like), a hypophosphite dehydrogenase (e.g., hypophosphite:2-oxoglutarate
20 oxidoreductase), or the like. The enzyme may oxidize a reduced form of
   phosphorus using any suitable cofactor(s), coenzyme(s), and/or substrate(s)
   present in and/or near a cell. Furthermore, the enzyme may originate and/or be
   derived from bacteria, fungi, plants, or animals.
           Phosphite dehydrogenase enzyme - an enzyme that catalyzes oxidation
25 of phosphite to phosphate. The enzyme generally catalyzes the oxidation with
   sufficient efficiency to enable growth of a plant cell and/or fungal cell in the
   presence of phosphite as a phosphorus source to support growth. The enzyme
   may be of bacterial origin. The enzyme may be a PtxD polypeptide (i.e., PtxD
   or PtxD-like), which is any polypeptide that is capable of catalyzing oxidation of
30 phosphite to phosphate and that is (a) at least 90%, 95%, or completely
   identical to PtxD (SEQ ID NO:1; GenBank: AAC71709.1) of Pseudomonas
   stutzeri WM 88, (b) a derivative of PtxD of SEQ ID NO:1, (c) a homolog (i.e., a

                                       16
   paralog or ortholog) of PtxD (SEQ ID NO:1) from the same or a different
   bacterial species, or (d) a derivative of (c). Homologs of PtxD (SEQ ID NO:1)
   have substantial similarity to PtxD of Pseudomonas stutzeri, which may, for
   example, be determined by the blastp algorithm (e.g., program BLASTP
 5 2.2.18+), as described in the following two references, which are incorporated
   herein by reference: Stephen F. Altschul, et al. (1997), "Gapped BLAST and
   PSI-BLAST: a new generation           of protein database search      programs,"
   Constructs Res. 25:3389-3402; and Stephen F. Altschul et al. (2005) "Protein
   database searches using compositionally adjusted substitution matrices," FEBS
10 J. 272:5101-5109. Examples of substantial similarity include at least 50%, 60%,
   70%, or 80% sequence identity, a similarity score of at least 200 or 250, and/or
   an E-Value of less than 1e-40, 1e-60, or 1e-80, among others, using the blastp
   algorithm, with optimal alignment and, if needed, introduction of gaps.
           Exemplary homologs of PtxD of Pseudomonas stutzeri may be provided
15 by Acinetobacter radioresistens SK82 (SEQ ID NO:2; GenBank EET83888.1);
   Alcaligenes faecalis (SEQ ID NO:3; GenBank AAT12779.1); Cyanothece sp.
   CCYO11O (SEQ ID NO:4; GenBank EAZ89932.1); Gallionella ferruginea (SEQ
   ID NO:5; GenBank EES62080.1); Janthinobacterium sp. Marseille (SEQ ID
   NO:6; GenBank ABR91484.1); Klebsiella pneumoniae (SEQ ID NO.7; Genbank
20 ABR80271.1); Marinobacter algicola (SEQ ID NO:8; GenBank EDM49754.1);
   Methylobacterium extorquens (SEQ ID NO:9; NCBI YP_003066079.1); Nostoc
   sp. PCC      7120   (SEQ    ID   NO:10; GenBank      BAB77417.1);    Oxalobacter
   formigenes (SEQ ID NO.11; NCBI ZP_04579760.1); Streptomyces sviceus
   (SEQ ID NO:12; GenBank EDY59675.1); Thioalkalivibrio sp. HL-EbGR7 (SEQ
25 ID NO:13; GenBank ACL72000.1); and Xanthobacter flavus (SEQ ID NO:14;
   GenBank ABG73582.1), among others. Further aspects of PtxD homologs are
   described in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2004/0091985 ("the '985
   publication") to Metcalf et al., which is incorporated herein by reference. The
   phosphite dehydrogenase may have an amino acid sequence with at least
30 50%, 60%, 80%, 90% or 95% or 100% sequence identity to one or more of
   SEQ ID NOS:1-14.

                                        17
           Exemplary derivatives of PtxD of Pseudomonas stutzeri that may be
   suitable are described in the '985 publication and in U.S. Patent No. 7,402,419
   to Zhao et al., which is incorporated herein by reference. The derivatives may
   provide, for example,       altered   cofactor affinity/specificity and/or altered
 5 thermostability.
          The phosphite dehydrogenase enzyme may contain a sequence region
   with sequence similarity or identity to any one or any combination of the
   following consensus motifs: an         NAD-binding motif having a          consensus
   sequence of VGILGMGAIG (SEQ ID NO:15); a conserved signature sequence
10 for the D-isomer specific 2-hydroxyacid family with a consensus sequence of
   XPGALLVNPCRGSVVD (SEQ ID NO:16), where X is K or R, or a shorter
   consensus sequence within SEQ ID NO:16 of RGSVVD (SEQ ID NO:17);
   and/or a motif that may enable hydrogenases to use phosphite as a substrate,
   with a general consensus of GWQPQFYGTGL (SEQ ID NO:18), but that can
15 be better defined as GWX 1 PX 2 X3YX 4X5 GL (SEQ ID NO.19), where X1 is R, Q,
   T, or K, X2 is A, V, Q, R, K, H, or E, X3 is L or F, X4 is G, F, or S, and X5 is T, R,
   M, L, A, or S. Further aspects of consensus sequences found by comparison of
   PtxD and PtxD homologs are described in U.S. Patent Application Publication
   No. 2004/0091985 to Metcalf et al., which is incorporated herein by reference.
20        A phosphite dehydrogenase enzyme may (or may not) be a NAD
   dependent enzyme with high specificity for phosphite as a substrate (e.g., Km
   -50   pM)   and/or with a molecular weight of about 36 kilodaltons. The
   dehydrogenase enzyme may, but is not required to, act as a homodimer,
   and/or have an optimum activity at 35    OC  and/or a pH of about 7.25-7.75.
25         Hypophosphite dehydrogenase - an enzyme that catalyzes oxidation of
   hypophosphite to phosphite. The enzyme may, for example, be a bacterial
   enzyme, such as HtxA from Pseudomonas stutzeri WM 88 (SEQ ID NO:20;
   GenBank AAC71711.1) or Alcaligenes faecalis (GenBank AAT1 2775.1).
          An HtxA polypeptide may, but is not required to, be a Fe-dependent
30 enzyme with high specificity for hypophosphite as a substrate (e.g., Km -0.54
   0.62 mM) and/or with a molecular weight of about 32 kilodaltons. The HtxA

                                       18
   polypeptide may, but is not required to, act as a homodimer, and/or to have an
   optimum activity at 27 OC  and/or a pH of about 7.0.
           ptxD or htxA coding region - a sequence encoding a PtxD polypeptide
   (i.e., a phosphite dehydrogenase enzyme) or an HtxA polypeptide (i.e., a
 5 hypophosphite dehydrogenase enzyme), respectively. An exemplary ptxD
   coding region is provided by ptxD of Pseudomonas stutzeri (SEQ ID NO:21;
   GenBank AF061070.1). In other examples, a ptxD-like coding region with at
   least 80% or 90% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:21 may be utilized. In other
   examples, a coding region that encodes a polypeptide with at least 50%, 60%,
10 80%, 90%, 95% or complete identity to one or more of the polypeptides of SEQ
   ID NOS:1-14 may be utilized.
   II.     Generation of Transgenic Plants and Fungi
           The present disclosure provides methods of making transgenic plants
   and transgenic fungi that have a modified metabolism of phosphorus. The
15 methods may be used to create, as a primary goal, transgenic plants and/or
   fungi (or at least one plant or fungal cell) carrying a nucleic acid construct
   encoding an enzyme of phosphorus oxidation, such as for better growth on a
   phosphite and/or hypophosphite fertilizer in agriculture. Alternatively, or in
   addition, the methods may be used to create, as a primary goal, transgenic
20 plants and/or fungi carrying a construct including another gene of interest, with
   the construct also including a gene encoding an enzyme of phosphorus
   oxidation acting as a selectable marker to facilitate identification and/or
   isolation of the transgenic plants or fungi. The method steps disclosed in this
   section and elsewhere in the present disclosure may be performed in any
25 suitable combination, in any suitable order, and repeated any suitable number
   of times.
           Figure 1 shows a schematic flowchart of an exemplary method 20 of (i)
   making a transgenic plant (and/or fungus) that metabolizes at least one
   reduced form of phosphorus ("RP") to phosphate and/or (ii) using, as a
30 selectable marker, a nucleic acid that confers a capability to metabolize a
   reduced form of phosphorus to phosphate.

                                        19
          At least one construct (or nucleic acid) may be obtained, as indicated at
   22. The at least one construct 23 may include at least one first gene 24, which
   may be at least one chimeric gene encoding at least one enzyme ("RP-OxRe"),
   such as a phosphite dehydrogenase, that catalyzes oxidation of a reduced form
 5 of phosphorus, such as oxidation of phosphite to phosphate. Construct 23 also
   may include at least one second gene 26 ("Gene2"), which also may (or may
   not) be a chimeric gene. In some embodiments, the at least one first gene may
   be a pair of genes encoding at least two distinct polypeptides that each
   catalyze oxidation of at least one reduced form of phosphorus. The at least two
10 polypeptides may act to oxidize phosphorus substrates in series (e.g.,
   catalyzing oxidation of hypophosphite to phosphite with a first polypeptide and
   then catalyzing oxidation of phosphite to phosphate with a second polypeptide).
   In some examples, the at least one second gene may include a selectable
   marker for use in plants and/or fungi and/or may include a gene(s) of primary
15 interest, among others. First gene 24 and second gene 26 may be linked, such
   as being present in the same polynucleotide, or may be present on respective
   discrete polynucleotides. Each gene may be constructed, at least in part,
   outside of plants, such as in vitro and/or in a microorganism (e.g., bacteria,
   yeast, etc.). Furthermore, each gene may be capable of expression in plants,
20 fungi, or both that contain the gene.
          The at least one gene (24 and/or 26) may be introduced into at least one
   recipient plant 28 (or fungus), plant or fungal tissue, and/or plant or fungal cell,
   indicated at 30. The at least one plant, tissue, or cell, prior to introduction of the
   at least one gene, may at least substantially require phosphate as an external
25 source of phosphorus for growth. In other words, the plant, tissue, or cell may
   be at least substantially unable to metabolize directly a reduced form of
   phosphorus (such as phosphite) as a nutrient.
           Introduction of the at least one gene may be performed by contacting (a)
   the at least one plant/fungus, tissue, and/or cell and (b) a composition (a
30 modifying agent) that includes a nucleic acid comprising the at least one gene,
   under conditions that encourage introduction of the nucleic acid into the plant,
   tissue, and/or cell. The step of contacting may be performed by any mechanism

                                          20
   that creates contact between the at least one plant/fungus, tissue, and/or cell
   and the composition. The composition may, for example, include one or more
   polynucleotides containing the at least one gene, with the polynucleotides in
   and/or on a carrier. Exemplary carriers that may be suitable include biological
 5 cells (e.g., bacterial cells), plant viruses, inert particles, lipids (in micelles and/or
   liposomes), and/or the like. Exemplary contact created with a composition
   including the gene may include contacting a plant, plant tissue, or plant cells
   with a bacterium (e.g., an Agrobacterium species, such as Agrobacterium
   tumefaciens or Agrobacterium rhizogenes) carrying the at least one gene, or
10 with one or more projectiles carrying the at least one gene (e.g., particles
   coated with a polynucleotide including the at least one gene and fired at the
   plant, tissue, or cell from a gene gun). More generally, introducing the at least
   one gene may be performed on a plant/fungus, plant or fungal tissue, and/or
   plant    or   fungal   cells    by   infection,    injection,  particle   bombardment,
15 electroporation,     cell   fusion,     lipofection,    calcium-phosphate       mediated
   transfection, any combination thereof, or the like.
           Transgenic candidates 34 (also termed transformation candidates) may
   be generated, indicated at 36, by and/or after creating contact between the
   plant, tissue, and/or cells and the composition. The transgenic candidates may
20 be the plant/fungus, tissue, and/or cells used for contacting, or may be derived
   from    any later generation       (i.e.,   progeny    or division products) of the
   plant/fungus, tissue, and/or cells. In any event, the transgenic candidates may
   be seeds, plants, tissues, explants, isolated cells, cell colonies/aggregates,
   and/or the like.
25         Selection for growth (i.e., a growth advantage) of transgenic candidates
   34 in a selective medium 37 may be performed, indicated at 38. Candidates 34
   that possess a growth advantage on the selective medium, such as transgenic
   plants 40, generally are substantially larger than the other candidates. In other
   examples, the selection may be performed with transformed plant (or fungal)
30 cells and may include culturing the plant (or fungal) cells in a selective medium.
   In these cases, culturing the cells may permit selection and/or isolation of one
   or more colonies of cells formed by the step of culturing. The colonies may be

                                        21
   expressing an enzyme, such as a phosphite dehydrogenase, that oxidizes a
   reduced form of phosphorus, as evidenced by formation of the colony in the
   medium.
           Any suitable selective medium 37 may be utilized according to a
 5 selectable marker provided by the at least one first gene and/or a selectable
   marker (second) gene that was introduced. For example, the selective medium
   may include a reduced form of phosphorus, such as hypophosphite and/or
   phosphite. The reduced form of phosphorus may be a primary external source
   of phosphorus and/or may be at least substantially the only phosphorus present
10 in the medium, which means that the medium is at least substantially without
   phosphate (i.e., a low phosphate or no phosphate medium). Alternatively, or in
   addition, the selective medium may include another selective agent, such as
   hygromycin or phosphinothricin, if the selection for growth is based on second
   gene 26 (e.g., hph or bar) introduced into the plant/fungus, tissue, and/or cell. If
15 the selection is based on second gene 26, additional tests (e.g., growth in
   phosphite-containing medium, PCR, Southern blot, etc.) may be performed to
   test for introduction of the at least one first gene encoding at least one RP
   oxidoreductase. In any event, the medium may include or be predominantly
   liquid and may (or may not) include a matrix or substrate, such as a gel (e.g.,
20 agar, agarose, gelatin, etc.) or soil, among others.
           Selection for growth may be performed in any suitable vessel 42 (and/or
   container) or may be performed without a vessel or container, such as in a
   field. Exemplary vessels that may be suitable are covered or uncovered and
   include single- or multi-well plates or dishes (e.g., Petri dishes), pots, trays,
25 boxes, etc.
           Transgenic plant 40 may be isolated, indicated at 44. Plant 40 may have
   a growth advantage conferred by nucleic acid 23 for growth on a reduced form
   of phosphorus, relative to a non-transgenic variety of the plant (e.g., plant 28)
   from which transgenic plant 40 was derived. Stated differently nucleic acid 23
30 may confer a capability to metabolize the reduced form of phosphorus as a
   nutrient. In some embodiments, transgenic plant 40 may be regenerated from
   transformed plant cells or tissue. For example, at least a portion of a colony of

                                      22
   cells produced by cultivating the plant cells in a selective (e.g., phosphite)
   medium may be utilized to regenerate the transgenic plant. Further aspects of
   generating transgenic plants and fungi are described elsewhere in the present
   disclosure, such as in the Examples of Section IV.
 5         Figure 2 shows a schematic representation of nucleic acid 23 for use in
   method 20 (Fig. 1). Gene 24 may be termed an RP-OxRe gene 46 that
   expresses, indicated at 48, a reduced phosphorus oxidoreductase 50 (e.g., a
   phosphite dehydrogenase). Gene 24 includes a coding region 52 that encodes
   the oxidoreductase. Gene 24 also may include a transcription promoter 54
10 operatively linked to coding region 52, and a transcription terminator 56
   operatively linked to coding region 52.
           Promoter 54 and terminator 56 may be functional in plants and/or fungi.
   Accordingly, the promoter and/or the terminator may originate from a plant or
   fungus, or a virus or a bacteria that infects plants or fungi, among others.
15 Exemplary promoters that may be suitable for use in plants include the 35S
   promoter of Cauliflower Mosaic Virus. Other promoters that may be suitable for
   use in plants include a PLDZ2 promoter from the Phospholipase DZ2 (PLDZ2)
   gene (Gene        model   AT3G05630.1;     TAiR   accession  Gene:2078036) of
   Arabidopsis thaliana, which is inducible under conditions of low phosphate
20 availability to the plant (Cruz-Ram[rez et al., PNAS 2006, 103:6765-6770, the
   disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference). Alternatively, or in
   addition,   the promoter may be a root-specific promoter, such as the
   Arabidopsis     Phtl;2   phosphate    transporter  gene   (NCBI NM_123703.1;
   GeneID:834355) or the promoter of the MtPT1 gene or MtPT2 gene (GenBank:
25 AF000354.1 and AF000355.1) of Medicago truncatula (Xiao, et al, Plant
   Biology, 2006, 8:439-449, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by
   reference).
           Furthermore, first gene 24 may include transcribed but untranslated
   regions, such as a 5' leader sequence and/or 5' untranslated region 58, a 3'
30 untranslated region 60, and/or one or more introns 62. First gene 24 may be
   provided by nucleic acid 23 that includes any other suitable sequences, such
   as at least one second gene 26, replication control sequences for replication in

                                        23
   bacteria or another non-plant species, a selectable marker for another species
   (e.g.,   bacteria), or any combination thereof, among            others.    In some
   embodiments, nucleic acid 23 may be any combination of linear or circular (i.e.,
   a closed loop), at least mostly double-stranded or at least mostly single
 5 stranded, and DNA or RNA.
            Figure   3  shows a      proposed   mechanism      70   for   oxidation    of
   hypophosphite to phosphate in bacteria catalyzed by enzymes expressed from
   ptxD and htxA genes. The proposed mechanism presented here is for
   illustration purposes only, and is not intended to limit the definition of any of the
10 components shown, such as ptxD or htxA genes or PtxD or HtxA polypeptides,
   or limit the scope of the invention.
            Mechanism 70 shows a hypophosphite ion 72 may be oxidized to a
   phosphite ion 74 by the action of an HtxA polypeptide 76 (hypophosphite:2
   oxoglutarate dioxygenase) encoded by an htxA gene. HtxA polypeptide 76 may
15 use Fe+ 78 as a cofactor and 2-oxoglutarate 80 as an electron donor. In
   addition, enzyme 76 may convert 2-oxoglutarate 80 to succinate 82, and
   molecular oxygen 84 to carbon dioxide 86.
            Phosphite ion 74, in turn, may be oxidized to a phosphate ion 88 by the
   action of a PtxD polypeptide 90. Polypeptide 90 may use NAD+ 92 as an
20 electron acceptor that is reduced to NADH 94.
   III.     Use of Transgenic Plants and Fungi
           The transgenic plants disclosed herein may be used for any suitable
   purpose. Exemplary purposes include production of a commercial product (e.g.,
   food, wood, pharmaceuticals, dyes, oils, lubricants, inks, rubber, cotton, fibers,
25 biofuels, etc.), and/or water remediation. Water remediation, as used herein,
   generally includes any removal of pollution or at least one contaminant from a
   body of water and/or from soil that has contacted contaminated water.
           A method of water remediation is provided. Any transgenic plant, fungi,
   or both disclosed herein may be used in the method. The method steps
30 disclosed in the section and elsewhere in the present disclosure may be
   performed in any suitable order, in any suitable combination, with each step
   performed any suitable number of times.

                                       24
          One or more transgenic plants may be obtained. The transgenic plants
   may have been transformed, in the current generation or in any proceeding
   generation, with a construct that confers a capability of oxidizing at least one
   reduced form of phosphorus.
 5        Obtaining the one or more transgenic plants may include any suitable
   procedures. For example, the step of obtaining may include introducing into the
   current generation or, more typically, an earlier generation of the transgenic
   plants, one or more constructs encoding one or more polypeptides that oxidize
   a reduced form of phosphorus to phosphate.
10        The one or more transgenic plants may be contacted with water to be
   remediated. Contacting plants to with water may include any combination of
   bringing the water to plants, bringing the plants to water, and germinating
   seeds for the plants in contact with the water. The water may be substantially
   stationary or may be flowing with respect to the plants. In some embodiments,
15 the step of contacting may include contacting the plants with an industrial
   and/or municipal effluent.
   IV.    Examples
          The following examples describe selected aspects and embodiments of
   the present disclosure, such as exemplary methods of making transgenic
20 plants (including algae) and transgenic fungi that metabolize phosphite as a
   source of phosphorus, exemplary transgenic plants and transgenic fungi, and
   exemplary methods of using a gene encoding a phosphite dehydrogenase
   enzyme as a selectable marker for selection of transgenic plants and
   transgenic fungi. The examples are presented for illustration only and are not
25 intended to define or limit the scope of the present disclosure.
   Example 1. Exemplary Generation of Transgenic Plants Expressing a
                 Bacterial Phosphite Dehydrogenase Enzyme
          This example describes an exemplary method of generating transgenic
   plants with modified phosphorus metabolism; see Figs. 4-6.
30        Figure 4 shows an exemplary nucleic acid, a chimeric gene 100,
   constructed for use in generating a transgenic plant that metabolizes phosphite
   to phosphate, to permit growth on phosphite in the absence of phosphate. The

                                       25
   gene was constructed using the Gateway@ system (Gateway@ Technology,
   2003, Invitrogen) as described in the following paragraphs.
           Gene 100 includes a 35S promoter sequence 102 from Cauliflower
   Mosaic Virus (CaMV) operatively linked to a coding sequence 104 (SEQ ID
 5 NO:21) from ptxD of Pseudomonas stutzeri WM88. Expression of gene 100,
   indicated at 106, to produce the PtxD polypeptide (a phosphite dehydrogenase
   enzyme) is thus controlled/driven by 35S promoter 102. Gene 100 optionally
   may include a termination sequence 107, such as a 35S terminator from
   CaMV, disposed downstream of and operatively linked to the coding sequence
10 (and promoter sequence). The gene further may include a 5' untranslated
   sequence disposed between the promoter sequence and the ptxD coding
   sequence, and/or a 3' untranslated sequence disposed between the ptxD
   coding sequence and the termination sequence. Furthermore, the gene may
   include an intron that is transcribed along with ptxD coding sequence and that
15 is removed from the transcript by post-transcriptional splicing.
           Figure 5 shows a schematic diagram of a portion of a strategy used to
   create gene 100 of Fig. 4. A forward primer 108 (SEQ ID NO:22) and a reverse
   primer 110 (SEQ ID NO:23) were synthesized. Each primer has a hybridization
   region 112, 114 that hybridizes, indicated at 116, 118 in the lower part of the
20 figure, in either a forward or reverse orientation to the ends of ptxD coding
   region 104. Each primer has an attB site 120, 122 (attB1 or attB2) positioned 5
   prime to hybridization region 112 or 114. The primers were utilized to amplify
   coding sequence 104 from a plasmid (pWM302) using the polymerase chain
   reaction, to create a ptxD amplified product. A construct of the expected size,
25 about 1000 base pairs, was generated, as detected by gel electrophoresis and
   staining of the amplified product. The primers alternatively may be designed to
   amplify additional untranslated sequences from upstream and/or downstream
   of the ptxD coding sequence.
          The ptxD amplified product next was incorporated into a plasmid vector
30 using site-specific recombination provided by the Gateway@ system. The
   amplified product was recombined with plasmid pDONR221, via the attP1 and
   attP2 sites of pDONR 221 and the attB1 and attB2 sites of the amplified

                                        26
   product, to create a ptxD derivative of pDONR221, "initial clone" pDONR221.
   The initial clone has the full-length ptxD coding sequence opposingly flanked by
   attL1 and attL2 sites.
          The ptxD sequence of the initial clone then was moved into an acceptor
 5 vector by further site-specific recombination        to produce an expression
   construct, pB7WG2D-ptxD.         The acceptor vector was pB7WG2D.1, which
   includes, in order around the vector, (1) a 35S promoter, (2) attR1 and attR2
   sites disposed downstream of the 35S promoter, (3) a 35S terminator, (4) a
   "bar" gene (confers phosphinothricin resistance) as a selectable marker in
10 plants, (5) a gene, SmSpR , as a selectable marker in bacteria, particularly
   Agrobacterium (confers spectinomycin (Sp) and streptomycin (Sm) resistance),
   and (6) an EgfpER gene. Gateway@-system directed recombination formed
   expression clone (pB7WG2D-ptxD) including gene 100 (see Fig. 4), bar,
   SmSpR , and EgfpER.
15        The expression construct was used to transform electrocompetent
   Agrobacterium tumefaciens by electroporation. A transformed Agrobacterium
   clone carrying the expression construct was selected for subculture.
          The     transformed    Agrobacterium    clone   was  used    to  transform
   Arabidopsis thaliana (ecotype Col-0) (generally described herein as "wild-type"
20 (WT)) using a modified floral dip method. Transformed TO progeny were
   selected using phosphinothricin resistance. In particular, screening was
   performed with MS 0.1X media containing phosphinothricin (20 mg/L). Twenty
   eight resistant lines were identified through PCR amplification of the ptxD gene.
   Each resistant line was analyzed via T1          progeny using MS 0.1X media
25 containing phosphinothricin (20 mg/L) to look for 3:1 (resistant:sensitive)
   segregation of the T1 progeny, to identify plants that showed Mendelian
   transmission of the ptxD gene. Ten homozygous ptxD transgenic plants were
   established from T2 progeny of T1 progeny exhibiting 3:1 transmission.
          The ptxD transgenic plants were tested for their ability to grow in media
30 containing only phosphite (e.g., about 0.1 to 5 mM) as an external source of
   phosphorus. Control plants showed no substantial growth in this media (i.e.,
   showed growth limited to the internal phosphorus reserves accumulated in the

                                      27
   seed), whereas the transgenic plants grew efficiently, thereby demonstrating
   that the transgenic plants are able to metabolize a reduced form of phosphorus
   (phosphite) as a source of phosphorus.
          The ptxD expression construct also was used to provide a selectable
 5 marker for selection of transgenic plants with modified phosphorus metabolism.
   Wild-type Col-0 plants were transformed using Agrobacterium containing the
   ptxD expression construct. TO progeny (seeds) were plated on a medium with
   phosphite (5 mM) as the source of phosphorus. Figure 6 shows exemplary data
   for growth of the TO progeny, relative to wild type plants, on the phosphite
10 medium. Transgenic plants 130 (circled in the right panel) have a substantial
   growth advantage relative to wild type plants 132 (left panel) and relative to
   other TO progeny 134 that apparently were not transformed with the expression
   construct and/or that did not efficiently express the PtxD polypeptide from the
   introduced construct.
15         Further  aspects    of generating    transgenic   plants   with  modified
   phosphorus metabolism are described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application
   Serial No. 61/199,784, filed November 19, 2008, which is incorporated herein
   by reference.
   Example 2. Characterization of Arabidopsis Plants Expressing PtxD
20        This example presents an investigation of the growth characteristics of
   the parental ("wild-type" (WT) or control) Arabidopsis line, Col-0, and two of the
   transgenic Arabidopsis lines described in Example 1 and comprising the ptxD
   expression construct of Example 1; see Figs. 7-12.
          Two transgenic Arabidopsis lines, dubbed PTXD-3 and PTXD-5, were
25 prepared and isolated as described in Example 1. Each line is homozygous for
   the ptxD expression construct of Example 1.
          The parental line and the PTXD-3 and PTXD-5 transgenic lines were
   tested for the ability to grow on a liquid medium, with or without inorganic
   phosphate (Pi) as the source of phosphorus. Seeds from the parental and
30 transgenic lines were germinated in liquid media and tested for growth. In the
   absence of phosphate (and phosphite), neither the parental line nor the
   transgenic lines showed significant growth beyond germination. (Each line

                                      28
   exhibited paltry growth for a short time, which apparently was permitted by
   phosphate stores in the seeds, which are quickly depleted from the seeds.) In
   contrast, both the parental (WT) line and the transgenic lines grew efficiently in
   the presence of 50, 100, and 1000 pM phosphate.
 5         Figure 7 shows photographs of data obtained from tests of the growth of
   the parental (WT) line and the transgenic PTXD-3 and PTXD-5 lines on a liquid
   growth medium, with or without phosphite (Phi) or phosphate (Pi) as the source
   of phosphorus. In Fig. 7, the absence or presence of sustained plant growth
   (beyond the germination stage) is identified with a minus (-) or a plus (+)
10 symbol, respectively. Both the parental line and the transgenic lines grew
   efficiently in the presence of 50 pM inorganic phosphate (bottom row). Also,
   neither the parental line nor the transgenic lines showed detectable growth in
   the absence of both phosphate and phosphite. However, both transgenic lines,
   but not the parental line, grew efficiently in the presence of 50, 100, and 1000
15 pM inorganic phosphite as phosphorus source. Therefore, the transgenic lines
   acquired the ability to metabolize phosphite as a phosphorus source to support
   plant growth.
           Figure 8 shows a bar graph of data obtained from tests of the ability of
   the wild-type and transgenic Arabidopsis lines of Fig. 7 to reduce the amount of
20 total phosphorus in a growth medium containing different concentrations of
   phosphite (50, 100, and 1000 pM) as the source of phosphorus.
           Wild type and the two transgenic Arabidopsis lines, PTXD-3 and PTXD
   5, were germinated and cultivated in one-liter plastic containers with 0.1X
   Murashige and Skoog liquid medium lacking phosphate and supplemented with
25 either 50, 100 or 1000 micromolar phosphorous acid (H3PO 3). One hundred
   plants per plastic container were allowed to grow for 45 days in the plastic
   container in a growth chamber with a 16:8 light:dark cycle for each 24-hour
   period. The plants were covered to avoid moisture loss. A double layer of
   plastic mesh was placed where seeds were sown to germinate on top of liquid
30 media in each plastic container.
           After 45 days of growth the total phosphorus content was determined in
   the liquid media, after removing the plants, using a vanadium-molybdate

                                      29
   method. Briefly, 5 mL of liquid media from each sample was digested with nitric
   acid:perchloric acid (HNO 3:HCIO 4; 5:1). Then, the phosphorus content was
   determined with a colorimetric method based on the addition of a solution of
   ammonium molybdate (20 mM) and ammonium metavanadate (10 mM) in 70%
 5 perchloric acid. After a 20-minute incubation at room temperature, the
   absorbance at 400 nm was measured with a spectrophotometer.
           In Fig. 8, the first three bars labeled as "initial" represent the initial
   concentration of total phosphorus in the media without plants. The sets of bars
   labeled as WT (Col-0), PTXD-3, and PTXD-5 represent the total phosphorus
10 content in the media (initially 50 pM, 100 pM, or 1000 pM phosphite) after 45
   days of incubation in the presence of the corresponding Arabidopsis lines. The
   transgenic plants (PTXD-3 and         PTXD-5),  but not the wild-type plants,
   diminished the phosphorus content in the media by more than 50%. The
   decrease in phosphorus content, which in this case represents a removal of
15 phosphite from the media, is due to the uptake of phosphite by the plants. The
   transgenic lines have a high capacity to remove phosphite from the media
   because they are able to convert it into phosphate, which sustains plant growth.
   This ability to remove phosphite from an aqueous medium may be exploited to
   remove phosphite from waste water, such as effluents produced by CD/DVD
20 factories.
           Figure 9 shows a schematic representation of the distribution of parental
   (WT) and ptxD transgenic (PTXD) Arabidopsis plants used for the experiments
   of Figs. 10 and 11.
           Figures 10 and 11 show photographs of parental and ptxD transgenic
25 plants distributed according to Fig. 9 and tested for growth on a substrate
   containing added phosphate (Pi)( Fig. 10) or phosphite (Phi)( Fig. 11) as the
   source of phosphorus. The presence or absence of sustained growth (beyond
   the germination stage) is indicated by a plus (+) or a minus (-) symbol,
   respectively. Figure 10 shows similar growth of wild-type and transgenic plants
30 on phosphate. In contrast, Fig. 11 shows that only the transgenic plants were
   capable of sustained growth on phosphite. The plants here and in Fig. 11 were
   grown in a sand:vermiculite mixture (1:1) and received water and nutrient

                                       30
   solutions (lacking any other phosphorus source except as previously indicated)
   periodically.
           Figure 12 shows a bar graph of data obtained from tests of the ability of
   the Arabidopsis plant lines of Fig. 7 to increase in weight when cultivated in the
 5 presence of various sources of phosphorus. The dry weight of three plants
   cultivated in sand:vermiculite (1:1) as substrate is plotted in the figure with
   respect to each particular plant line and source(s) of phosphorus. Wild type
   plants did not grow substantially with phosphite as the source of phosphorus,
   while the transgenic lines grew similarly or better on phosphite (Phi) relative to
10 phosphate (Pi).
   Example 3. Transgenic Tobacco Plants Expressing PtxD
           This example describes the creation and characterization of transgenic
   Nicotiana tabacum (tobacco) comprising the ptxD expression construct of
   Example 1; see Fig. 13.
15         Nicotiana tabacum was transformed with the expression construct
   described in Example 1. In particular, tobacco leaf explants were co-cultivated
   with an Agrobacterium strain harboring a 35S::PtxD construct (Example 1)
   within its T-DNA. Leaf discs were allowed to regenerate in MS media
   containing 1 mM phosphite as the only phosphorus source. Plants regenerated
20 from these leaf discs on phosphite-containing media were transferred to soil
   and allowed to set seed under greenhouse conditions.
           Figure  13 shows     photographs of T2       transgenic tobacco seeds,
   homozygous for the 35S::PtxD gene, and control tobacco seedlings taken 25
   days after germination in MS media containing either phosphate (1 mM Pi) or
25 phosphite (1 mM Phi) as the only phosphorus source. The presence or
   absence of growth (after depletion of seed-furnished phosphorus) is indicated
   by a plus (+) or a minus (-) symbol, respectively. It can be seen that the control
   seedlings germinated but were unable to sustain normal growth in phosphite
   containing media, compared to when phosphate is supplied as a phosphorus
30 source. In contrast, tobacco plants from each transgenic line showed sustained
   growth in the presence of phosphite or phosphate as the source of phosphorus.

                                       31
   These experiments demonstrate the ability to modify phosphorus metabolism in
   tobacco.
            Figure  14   shows photographs      of additional  growth      experiments
   performed with the control and transgenic tobacco lines of Fig. 13. Seedlings
 5 were germinated and maintained in MS media supplemented with 1 mM
   phosphite as the only phosphorus source for 25 days. The seedlings then were
   transferred to tissue culture flasks containing MS with 1 mM phosphite as the
   only phosphorus source and were allowed to grow for 25 additional days in a
   plant growth chamber at 23    0C, with a photoperiod of 18 h light, followed by 6 h
10 darkness for each 24-hour period. It can be observed that the PTXD transgenic
   plants are able to sustain rapid growth in media containing phosphite as the
   only phosphorus source, whereas the control plant is unable to use phosphite
   for its growth and development.
   Example 4 Transgenic Algae with Modified Phosphorus Metabolism
15          This example describes a method of creating a transgenic line of algae
   expressing a phosphite dehydrogenase enzyme that enables growth of the
   algae on phosphite as a source of phosphorus.
            Photosynthetic algae have been adapted transgenically for many
   applications, such as production of biofuels, pharmaceuticals, antigens, and the
20 like. The algae can be cultured in large fermentation tanks that incorporate a
   light system to support photosynthesis and promote growth. Generally, the
   fermentation tanks must be protected from contamination with undesirable
   algae (or other organisms). Toward this end, the algae are grown under
   artificial light rather than sunlight, to reduce the risk of contamination.
25 Accordingly, growth of the algae with exposure to sunlight in open tanks or
   fields (e.g., in ponds), which would be much cheaper, is not feasible currently
   because of the high risk of contamination.
            The present disclosure enables the use of sunlight and open fields for
   growth of target algae by modifying the target algae for growth on phosphite as
30 a source of phosphorus. The modified target algae would be capable of thriving
   in a medium containing phosphite and lacking phosphate, which would not
   support growth of unwanted (contaminant) algae because they would require

                                        32
   phosphate. Accordingly, contamination by the unwanted algae would be
   reduced or eliminated, permitting the target algae to be cultured at a lower cost
   in an open tank or field with photosynthesis driven by sunlight.
          An expression construct for transformation of an algae species, such as
 5 Chlamydomonas reinhardtfi, is generated. The construct can express any
   suitable    phosphite   dehydrogenase       (and,    optionally, a   hypophosphite
   dehydrogenase, too). In the present illustration, the construct expresses PtxD
   from the ptxD coding sequence. The construct utilizes a hybrid promoter
   sequence to drive expression while avoiding gene silencing: the HSP70A
10 promoter is fused upstream of the RBCS2 promoter (each promoter is provided
   by C. reinhardtil)(Schroda et al, 2000, Plant J. 21: 121-131). The hybrid
   promoter sequence drives expression of the first intron of RBS2 of C.
   reinhardtii, which is fused to the coding sequence of the ptxD gene
   (Pseudomonas stutzeri), which, in turn, is fused to the transcription termination
15 sequence of the RBS2 gene. To enhance expression of PtxD polypeptide from
   the construct, the ptxD coding sequence may be modified to have a G or C in
   the third position of codons that permit this change (via degeneracy of the
   genetic code), to optimize codon usage for translation in C. reinhardtii.
          The ptxD expression construct may be provided as a plasmid containing
20 an origin of replication functional in E. coli, a selectable marker for E. coli (e.g.,
   an ampicillin-resistance gene), and a selectable marker functional in C.
   reinhardti, among others. An exemplary selectable marker for C. reinhardtii
   encodes a zeomycin binding protein that confers resistance to zeomycin and
   phleomycin (Lumbreras et al., 1998, Plant J. 14: 441-447).
25        The ptxD expression construct is introduced into C. reinhardtii by any
   suitable mechanism, such as particle bombardment (Debuchy et al., 1989,
   EMBO J. 8: 2803-2809) or with the aid of glass beads (Kindle et al., 1991,
   PNAS 88: 1721-1725), among others.
          Transformation of C. reinhardtii with glass beads can be carried out as
30 described by Kindle (1990, PNAS 87: 1228-1232). Cell walls are removed from
   C. reinhardtii cells by incubating them in undiluted autolysin for 30-60 min at
   room temperature. The effectiveness of treatment is monitored by sensitivity to

                                       33
   0.004% Nonidet P-40 detergent (Sigma). Cells are harvested from autolysin by
   centrifugation, resuspended in liquid medium, and transformed immediately to
   avoid cell-wall regeneration. Glass beads (0.45-0.52 mm) are washed with
   concentrated sulfuric acid, then rinsed thoroughly with distilled water, dried, and
 5 sterilized by baking at 250  OC for 2-3 h. Glass beads (300 mg) are added to 0.4
   mL of cells, 2 micrograms of plasmid DNA is added, and cells agitated at top
   speed on a Fisher Vortex Genie 11 mixer in 15-mL conical disposable
   polypropylene centrifuge tubes. The beads are allowed to settle, and cells are
   spread on selective agar plates with a glass spreader. For direct selection of
10 zeomycin-resistant transformants, cells are agitated with glass beads and DNA,
   diluted in 20 mL TAP liquid medium and left to express the ble gene by
   incubating at 25 C in the light (80 pE m- 2 -1)for 15-18 h with gentle shaking.
   Cells are then pelleted by centrifugation, resuspended in 5 mL of TAP
   containing 0.5% molten agar, and poured onto the surface of a TAP/2% agar
15 plate containing zeomycin at 20 mg/mL.
           Zeomycin-resistant colonies are then spread in TAP media lacking any
   source of phosphate, but supplemented with 1 mM phosphite as a phosphorus
   source. Plates are incubated for 18 to 24 h at 25 C in light and colonies that
   grow are able to use phosphite as a phosphorus source.
20 Example 5. Transgenic Trichoderma Expressing a Phosphite Dehydrogenase
           This example describes a method of creating a fungus of the genus
   Trichoderma modified to express a phosphite dehydrogenase enzyme, to
   render the fungus capable of growing on phosphite as a source of phosphorus.
           A.     Introduction
25          Trichoderma species are free-living fungi that are common in soil and
   root ecosystems. Recent discoveries show that they behave as avirulent plant
   symbionts, as well as being parasites of phytophatogenic fungi. Some strains
   establish robust and long-lasting colonization of root surfaces and penetrate
   into the epidermis. As ubiquitous soil inhabitants and rhizosphere-competent
30 fungi, Trichoderma species have been used successfully as biological control
   agents for the management of plant pathogens. Several mechanisms of
   biocontrol have been        proposed   for Trichoderma,   including    competition,

                                          34
   mycoparasitism, and the induction of plant defense responses due to
   colonization of plant root intercellular spaces (Howell, 2003; Yedidia et al.,
   1999). Root colonization by Trichoderma species also frequently enhances root
   growth and development, crop productivity, resistance to abiotic stresses, and
 5 the uptake and use of nutrients.
            Trichoderma species may be modified to express PtxD or an ortholog or
   derivative thereof, to render the Trichoderma capable of growth on phosphite.
   Optionally, the Trichoderma also may be modified to express a hypophosphite
   dehydrogenase (e.g., HtxA). In any event, these transgenic Trichoderma may
10 be put to various uses. For example, they may be used for bioremediation
   purposes, such as to eliminate phosphite (and/or hypophosphite) from waste
   water discharge of the CD and DVD industry. The transgenic Trichoderma can
   be utilized for bioremediation alone, or in combination with a transgenic plant
   (e.g., Example 1). Use of a combined transgenic plant/fungal system for
15 removal of phosphite (and/or hypophosphite) may be more efficient than the
   use of either alone. Alternatively, the transgenic Trichoderma              can  be
   associated with plants to protect them from pathogen fungi. In this case, the
   plants may be non-transgenic such that they require phosphate as a source of
   phosphorus, or may be transgenic plants that can grow on phosphite as a
20 source of phosphorus (e.g., Example 1).              In any event, the transgenic
   Trichoderma may function as a powerful fungicide, since both the Trichoderma
   itself, and its utilization of phosphite may protect the plants.
            B.     Protocol
            Transformation of Trichoderma atroviride (IMI 206040) protoplasts is
25 carried out using methods known to the art, such as the PEG-CaC           2  method
   (Herrera-Estrella et al., 1990; Baek & Kenerley, 1998), biolistics (Lorito et al.,
   1993), or electroporation (Goldman           et al.,   1990), among   others. The
   transforming DNA is a plasmid or a PCR product carrying a gene encoding a
   phosphite     dehydrogenase       enzyme    (e.g.,  PtxD)   under control    of the
30 Trichoderma reesei pki promoter or the Aspergillus nidulans trpC promoter, and
   the T. atroviride blu17 or the A. nidulans trpC terminator. Plasmids are purified
   using the Qiagen Plasmid Midi Kit or cesium chloride gradients. For selection,

                                       35
   100, 200, and 500 pL aliquots are plated using an agar overlay containing
   1.2 M sorbitol and 200 mM H3PO3 as sole phosphorus source, immediately
   after treatment or after a 2-4 hour incubation period of the protoplasts in 1.2 M
   sorbitol. After three to four days of incubation at 28      0C, colonies capable of
 5 growth on phosphite as the phosphorus source should appear on the plates.
   Transformants should appear only when transformed with constructs carrying
   the ptxD coding sequences. Transformants are subjected to three rounds of
   monosporic      culture  to  obtain   homokaryons.      Alternatively,  Trichoderma
   transformants may be obtained by co-transformation using an antibiotic
10 resistance marker for selection (such as hph, which confers hygromycin
   resistance), in combination with a construct carrying the ptxD gene. Under the
   latter strategy, hygromycin-resistant transformants carrying the ptxD gene are
   first selected, and strains capable of using phosphite as a phosphorus source
   can be selected at a later stage as mentioned above, or are identified in a
15 screen by testing expression of the ptxD gene.
           Conidia of transformants carrying a phosphite-utilization cassette are
   produced by solid or submerged fermentation processes known in the art
   (Cavalcante et al., 2008). The conidia may be applied to plants, seeds therefor,
   or to soil, among others. For example, the conidia may be applied to seeds
20 (e.g., with a latex sticker, such as Rhoplex B-15J), directly to plant roots as a
   spore suspension (e.g., with a sticker), or to soil in water as a spore suspension
   or in a wheat bran/peat preparation mixture (0.5%, w/w), among others.
           The following references are incorporated herein by reference:
   Baek, J. M. & Kenerley, C. M. (1998). The arg2 gene of Trichoderma virens:
25 cloning and development of a homologous transformation system. Fungal
   Genet. Biol. 23:34-44.
   Cavalcante, R.S., Lima, H.L.S., Pinto, G.A.S., Gava, C.A.T., and Rodrigues, S.
   (2008). Effect of Moisture on Trichoderma Conidia Production on Corn and
   Wheat Bran by Solid State Fermentation. Food Bioprocess. Technol. 1:100
30 104.
   Goldman, G.H., Van Montagu, M., and Herrera-Estrella, A. (1990).
   Transformation of Trichoderma harzianum by high-voltage electric pulse. Curr.
   Genet. 17:169-174.

                                        36
   Herrera-Estrella, A., Goldman, G.H., and Van Montagu, M. (1990). High
   efficiency transformation system for the biocontrol agents, Trichoderma spp.
   Mol. Microbiol. 4:839-843.
   Howell, C.R. (2003) Mechanisms employed by Trichoderma species in the
 5 biological control of plant diseases. Plant Dis. 87:4-10.
   Lorito, M., Hayes, C.K., Di Pietro, A., and Harman, G.E. (1993). Biolistic
   transformation of Trichoderma harzianum and Gliocladium virens using plasmid
   and genomic DNA. Curr. Genet. 24:349-356.
   Yedidia, I., Benhamou, N., and Chet, I. (1999). Induction of defense responses
10 in cucumber plants (Cucumis sativus L.) by the biocontrol agent Trichoderma
   harzianum. Apple. Environ. Microbiol. 65:1061-1070.
   Example 6. Mycorrhizae Formed with a Fungus Expressing a Bacterial
                 Phosphite Dehydrogenase Enzyme
           This example describes a method of creating a mycorrhizal-type fungus
15 modified transgenically to express a phosphite dehydrogenase enzyme (and/or
   a   bacterial hypophosphite dehydrogenase enzyme),            which   renders the
   transgenic fungus capable of growing on phosphite (and/or hypophosphite) as
   the source of phosphorus. A method is also disclosed of forming mycorrhizae
   by associating the transgenic fungus with a plant. Mycorrhizae formed with
20 these transgenic fungi and the plant can supply the plant with phosphate for
   growth. Accordingly, the plant itself would not need to be transgenic, since the
   mycorrhizae     would    do   all the   work  of converting    phosphite   (and/or
   hypophosphite) into phosphate.
           A.     Introduction
25         Phosphorus (P) is an essential nutrient that can limit plant productivity in
   natural and agricultural ecosystems. A plant can form a natural symbiotic
   relationship with a mycorrhizal fungus, which acts as an extension of the plant's
   root system to provide the plant with mineral nutrients, particularly phosphate,
   in exchange for carbon-containing          molecules derived from the       plant's
30 photosynthetic activity (Smith and Read, 1997). Mycorrhizal fungi penetrate
   root cells of the plant, with the plasma membranes of the fungi and plant
   establishing a close association to form so-called arbuscular structures. Mineral
   nutrients, particularly phosphate, can be transferred from fungal cells to plant
   cells in the arbuscular structures. In addition to mineral nutrients, mycorrhizae

                                         37
   can also improve the ability of the plant to uptake water and can protect it from
   heavy metals (Khan, A.G., 2006; Forbes et al., 1998).
           Mycorrhizae have to compete with other microorganisms for phosphate
   availability. Therefore, transgenic mycorrhizal strains that express a gene
 5 encoding a phosphite dehydrogenase enzyme capable of converting phosphite
   into phosphate can be used to supply plants with phosphate. In this case, the
   mycorrhizal fungus will convert phosphite into phosphate, which then may be
   transferred to the roots of non-transgenic plants unable to metabolize
   phosphite. Alternatively, to make the system more efficient, an association of
10 transgenic mycorrhizal fungi and transgenic plants both expressing a gene
   encoding phosphite dehydrogenase can be used. The association of transgenic
   mycorrhizal fungi with non-transgenic or transgenic plants can be used to
   enhance plant productivity using fertilizers in which phosphate has been
   replaced by phosphite, or to bioremediate effluents from CD or DVD producing
15 factories or soils in which phosphite has been used as a fungicide (Ohtake, H.,
   1995)
           B.      Protocol
           This example utilizes the ptxD coding sequence from Pseudomonas
   stutzeri.   However,     any    suitable  coding   sequence     for  a   phosphite
20 dehydrogenase may be exploited.
           A gene construct is created by placing the ptxD coding sequence under
   control of the Aspergillus nidulans glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase
   (gpd) promoter and the transcription terminator region of the A. nidulans
   tryptophan synthetase (trpC) gene. A selectable marker such as the aph gene
25 from E. coli, which confers resistance to hygromycin, or the ble gene, which
   confers resistance to phleomycin, is also included in the transforming molecule
   (Barrett et al., 1990).
           For transformation, protoplasts of a mycorrhizal fungus (e.g., Laccaria
   bicolor, Cenococcum geophilum, Hebeloma cylindrosporium, Paxillus involotus,
30 Gigaspora rosea, Glomus mosseae, Glomus aggregatum, Glomus intraradices,
   Pisolithus tinctorius, etc.) are obtained according to the protocol of Barrett et al.
   (1990). To isolate protoplasts, mycelia are collected and washed several times

                                        38
   with sterile water and then treated with hydrolytic enzymes (a mixture of
   cellulase, chitinase, and proteases, with 5 to 10 mg/mL of each enzyme) in an
   osmotic solution (PDB; potato-dextrose-broth with 0.8 M mannitol or 0.6 M
   sucrose) to degrade the cell walls. The mycelia are incubated with the enzymes
 5 for 1 to 3 hours at 32    0C   with constant agitation (100 rpm). The protoplast
   suspension is filtered and washed with the osmotic solution. Protoplasts are
   recovered by centrifugation for 10 min at 800 rpm and the protoplast pellet
   resuspended in PDB buffer and the number of protoplasts determined by
   counting under a microscope.
10         Protoplasts (1-3x10 7 in 250 pL) are mixed with 5 to 20 micrograms of the
   gene construct and incubated in          PEG transformation solution     (25-60%
   polyethylene glycol 4000, 10-25 mM CaCl 2 , 10 mM Tris-HCI, pH 7.5) for 45
   minutes at 4   OC. One mL of additional PEG transformation solution is added
   and incubation is continued at room temperature for 20 minutes. Protoplasts
15 are allowed to regenerate cell walls in liquid media and transformants are
   selected in solid media. The solid media (Potato dextrose agar) contains 100
   pg/mL hygromycin or 100 pg/mL of phleomycin, depending on the selectable
   marker used for the transformation. Growing colonies are transferred to solid
   media three times to isolate stably transformed mycelia. The presence of the
20 selectable marker as well as the ptxD gene is confirmed by PCR. Once stable
   transformants are isolated, a 2 mm portion of mycelium is transferred to PDA
   media lacking phosphate and supplemented with 1 mM phosphite to identify
   colonies that express the ptxD gene construct. Southern blot analysis is used to
   confirm the presence of the corresponding genes.
25         To confirm that the transgenic fungus can provide phosphate to plants,
   soil is inoculated with mycelia of the ptxD-transformed fungus, and tobacco
   seed is germinated in the soil. The soil is fertilized with a normal concentration
   of nitrogen and potassium, with phosphite as the phosphorus source. Growth of
   tobacco plants from the seed in soil inoculated with the ptxD transgenic fungus
30 is compared to growth in control soil that has not been inoculated.

                                      39
           The following references are incorporated herein by reference:
   Barrett, V., Dixon, R.K., and Lemke, P.A. (1990) Genetic transformation of a
   mycorrhizal fungus. Apple. Micobiol. Biotechnol. 33:313-316.
   Bills, S.N., Richter, D.L., and Podila G.K. (1995) Genetic transformation of the
 5 ectomycorrhizal fungus Paxillus involutus by particle bombardment.
   Mycological Research 99:557-561.
   Bills, S.N., Podila, G.K., and Hiremath, S.T. (1999) Genetic engineering of the
   ectomycorrhizal fungus Laccaria bicolor for use as a biological control agent.
   Mycologia 91: 237-242.
10 Forbes, P.J., Millam, S., Hooker, J.E., and Harrier L.A. (1998) Transformation
   of the arbuscular mycorrhiza Gigaspora rosea by particle bombardment. Mycol.
   Res., 102:497-501.
   Hanif, M., Pardo, A.G., Gorfer, M., and Raudaskoski, M. (2002) T-DNA transfer
   and integration in the ectomycorrhizal fungus Suillus bovinus using hygromycin
15 B as a selectable marker. Curr. Genet. 41:183-188.
   Kemppainen, M., Circosta, A.,Tagu, D., Martin, F., and Pardo, A.G. (2005)
   Agrobacterium-mediated transformation of the ectomycorrhizal symbiont
   Laccaria laccata S238N. Mycorrhiza. 16:19-22.
   Khan,     A.G.     (2006)    Mycorrhizoremediation-an    enhanced      form    of
20 phytoremediation. Journal of Zhejiang University Science B. 7:503-514.
   Marmeisse, R., Gay, G., Debaud, J-C., and Casselton, A. (1992) Genetic
   transformation      of the     symbiotic basidiomycete fungus Hebeloma
   cylindrosporum. Curr. Genet., 22:41-45.
   Ohtake, H., 1995. Applications of biotechnology to pollution prevention.
25 Bioremediation: the Tokyo '94 Workshop, OECD, Paris, pp. 409-417.
   Pardo,. A., Hanif, M., Raudaskoski, M., and Gorfer, M. (2002) Genetic
   transformation of ectomycorrhizal fungi mediated by Agrobacterium
   tumefaciens. Mycol. Res. 106: 132-137.
   Pardo, A.G., Kemppainen, M., Valdemoros, D., Duplessis, S., Martin, F., and
30 Tagu, D. (2005) T-DNA transfer from Agrobacterium tumefaciens to the
   ectomycorrhizal fungus Pisolithus microcarpus. Revista Argentina de
   Microbiologia. 37:69-72.
   Peng, M, Lemke, P.A., and Shaw J.J. (1993) Improved conditions for protoplast
   formation and transformation of Pleurotus ostreatus. Apple. Micobiol. Biotechnol.
35 40:101-106.
   Smith S.E., and Read D.J. (1997) Mycorrhizal Symbiosis. Academia Press,
   San Diego, CA. USA.

                                      40
   ExaImple 7. Selected References
           This example presents a set of references pertinent to aspects of the
   present disclosure. Each of the references is incorporated herein by reference
   for all purposes.
 5 A.      General Aspects of Phosphite in Plants
   Ticconi, C.A., Delatorre, C.A., and Abel, S. (2001) Attenuation of phosphate
   starvation responses by phosphite in Arabidopsis. Plant Physiol. 127:963-972.
   Varadarajan, D.K., Karthikeyan, A.S., Matilda, P.D., and Raghothama, K.G.
   (2002) Phosphite, an analogue of phosphate, suppresses the coordinated
10 expression of genes under phosphate starvation. Plant Physiol. 129:1232
   1240.
   Ouimette, D.G., and Coffey, M.D. (1989) Phosphonate levels in Avocado
   (Persea amercana) seedlings and soil following treatment with Fosetyl-Al or
   potassium phosphonate. Plant Dis. 73:212-215.
15 Ouimette, D.G., and Coffey, M.D. (1990) Symplastic entry and phloem
   translocation of phosphonate. Pestic. Biochem. Physiol. 38:18-25.
   Niere, J.O., DeAngelis, G., and Grant, B.R. (1994) The effect of phosphonate
   on the acid-soluble phosphorus components in the genus Phytophthora. Can.
   J. Microbiol. 140:1661-1670.
20 Guest, D., and Grant, B.R. (1991) The complex action of phosphonates as
   antifungal agents. Biol. Rev. 66:159-187.
   F6rster H., Adaskaveg, J.E., Kim, D.H., and Stanghellini, M.E. (1998) Effect of
   Phosphite on Tomato and Pepper Plants and on Susceptibility of Pepper to
   Phytophthora Root and Crown Rot in Hydroponic Culture. Plant Dis. 82:1165
25 1170.
   Carswell, C., Grant, B.R., Theodorou, M.E., Harris, J., Niere, J.O., Plaxton,
   W.C. (1996) The Fungicide Phosphonate Disrupts the Phosphate-Starvation
   Response in Brassica nigra Seedlings. Plant Physiol. 110:105-110.
   Sukarno N., Smith, S.E., and Scott, E.S. (1993) The effect of fungicides on
30 vesiculararbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis: 1. The effects on vesicular
   arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and plant growth. New Phytol. 25:139-147.
   Ohtake, H. (1995). Applications of biotechnology to pollution prevention.
   Bioremediation: the Tokyo '94 Workshop, OECD, Paris, pp. 409-417.
   Ohtake H., Wu, H., Imazu, K., Anbe, Y., Kato, J., and Kuroda, A. (1996)
35 Bacterial phosphonate degradation, phosphite oxidation and polyphosphate
   accumulation. Resources, Conservation and Recycling 18: 125-134.
   Albrigo, L.G. (1999) Effects of foliar applications of urea or nutriphite on
   flowering and yields of Valencia orange trees. Proc. Fla. State Hort. Soc. 112:1
   4.

                                       41
   Fenn, M,E., and Coffey, M.D. (1984) Studies on the In Vitro and In Vivo
   Antifungal Activity of Fosetyl-Al and Phosphorous Acid. Phytopathology. Vol.
   74, No. 5.
   Schroetter, S., Angeles-Wedler, D., Kreuzig, R., and Schnug, E. (2006) Effects
 5 of phosphite on phosphorus supply and growth of corn (Zea mays).
   Landbauforschung V6|kenrode 3/4 2006 (56):87-99.
   Rebollar-Alviter, A.L., Madden, L.V., and Ellis, M.A. (2005) Efficacy of
   Azoxystrobin, Pyraclostrobin, Potassium Phosphite, and Mafenoxam for
   Control of Strawberry Leather Rot Caused by Phytophthora cactorum. Plant
10 Health Progess.
   Wilcoxy, W. (2005) ProPhyt, Alliete, and Phosphorous Acid. The Lake Erie
   Regional Grape Program.
   McDonald, A.E., Grant, B.R., and Plaxton, W.C. Phosphite (Phosphorous Acid):
   Its Relevance in the Environment and Agriculture and Influence on Plant
15 Phosphate Starvation. J. Plant Nutr. 24:1505-1519.
   Niere, J.O., DeAngelis, G., and Grant, B.R. (1994) The effect of phosphonate
   on the acid-soluble phosphorus components in the genus Phytophthora.
   Microbiol. 140:1661-1670.
   Guest, D., and Grant, B.R. (1991) The complex action of phosphonates as
20 antifungal agents. Biol. Rev. 66:159-187.
   B.     Identification. Cloning. and Characterizationof RP-Oxidoreductases
   White, A.K., and Metcalf, W.W. (2007) Microbial Metabolism of Reduced
   Phosphorus Compounds. Annu. Rev. Microbiol. 61:379-400.
   White, A.K., and Metcalf, W.W. (2002) Isolation and Biochemical
25 Characterization of Hypophosphite/2-Oxoglutarate Dioxygenase. A Novel
   Phosphorus-Oxidizing Enzyme from Pseudomonas stutzeri WM88. J. Biol.
   Chem. 277:38262-38271.
   Metcalf, W.W., and Wolfe, R.S. (1998) Molecular Genetic Analysis of Phosphite
   and Hypophosphite Oxidation by Pseudomonas stutzeri WM88. J. Bacteriol.
30 180:5547-5558.
   Garcia-Costas, A.M., White, A.K., and Metcalf, W.W. (2001) Purification and
   Characterization of a Novel Phosphorus-oxidizing Enzyme from Pseudomonas
   stutzeriWM88. J. Biol. Chem. 276: 17429-17436.
   Schink, B., Thiemann, V., Laue, H., and Friedrich, M.W. (2002) Desulfotignum
35 phosphitoxidans sp. nov., a new marine sulfate reducer that oxidizes phosphite
   to phosphate. Arch. Microbiol. (2002) 177:381-391.
   C.     Transformation of Plants
   Martinez-Trujillo, M. et al. (2004) Improving Transformation Efficiency of
   Arabidopsis thaliana by Modifying the Floral Dip Method. Plant Mol. Biol.
40 Reporter. 22: 63-70.

                                      42
   Example 8 Selected Embodiments I
           This  example describes selected embodiments            of the   invention,
   presented as a series of indexed paragraphs.
           A.     A transgenic plant capable of utilizing at least one reduced form
 5 of phosphorus as a phosphorus fertilizer. The transgenic plant of this paragraph
   may be further characterized as follows: (Al) wherein the plant expresses a
   bacterial coding sequence encoding an enzyme capable of oxidizing phosphite
   to phosphate, thereby permitting use of phosphite as a phosphorus fertilizer
   (and a source of phosphorus); (A2) wherein the bacterial coding sequence of
10 Al is ptxD from Pseudomonas stutzeri, Alcaligenes faecalis, or Xanthobacter
   flavus; (A3) wherein the transgenic plant of Al or A2 expresses htxA and ptxD
   coding sequences, thereby permitting use of hypophosphite and/or phosphite
   as a phosphorus fertilizer; (A4) wherein each or both of the bacterial coding
   sequences of A3 is from Pseudomonas stutzeri, Alcaligenes faecalis, or
15 Xanthobacter flavus; (A5) wherein at least one of the bacterial coding
   sequence(s) of any of Al through A4 is under control of a constitutive promoter,
   a leaf-specific promoter, a tissue-specific promoter, a root-specific promoter, a
   promoter inducible by low phosphate, or the 35S promoter from the Cauliflower
   Mosaic Virus; or (A6) any combination of Al through A5.
20         B.     The use of a transgenic plant capable of oxidizing hypophosphite
   to phosphate, and/or phosphite to phosphate, to eliminate hypophosphite
   and/or phosphite from an industrial or municipal effluent.
           C.     The use of one or more bacterial coding sequences that oxidize
   hypophosphite to phosphate, and/or phosphite to phosphate, as a selectable
25 marker for the production of transgenic plants.
           D.     The use of recombinant DNA molecules composed of one or
   more     bacterial   coding   sequences     encoding    enzymes     that    oxidize
   hypophosphite to phosphate, and/or phosphite to phosphate, and a promoter
   sequence functional in plants as a selectable marker for the production of
30 transgenic plants.
           E.     A chimeric gene functional in a plant cell, which chimeric gene
   comprises: (1) a plant-expressible promoter sequence; (2) a terminator signal

                                       43
   sequence; and (3) a coding region of a bacterial gene that oxidizes phosphite
   into phosphate, which coding region: encodes a functional NAD:phosphite
   oxidoreductase enzyme, and is positioned between such plant-expressible
   promoter sequence and such terminator signal sequence so as to be
 5 expressible, wherein expression of such coding region in a plant cell confers
   the capacity of using phosphite as a phosphorus source on such plant cell and
   wherein such capacity to use phosphite as a phosphorus source is capable of
   providing a basis for selection of such plant cell. The chimeric gene of this
   paragraph may be further characterized as follows: (El) wherein the coding
10 region is from the ptxD gene from Pseudomonas stutzeri, Alcaligenes faecalis,
   or Xanthobacter flavus; (E2) wherein the promoter sequence is a constitutive
   promoter; (E3) wherein the promoter sequence is the 35S promoter from
   Cauliflower Mosaic Virus; (E4) wherein the terminator signal sequence is a
   nopaline synthetase terminator signal sequence; (E5) wherein the terminator
15 signal sequence is a Cauliflower Mosaic Virus terminator signal sequence; or
   (E6) any combination of El through E5.
           F.     A transgenic plant that expresses at least one foreign enzyme at
   a level enabling the plant to metabolize a reduced form of phosphorus as a
   phosphorus fertilizer.
20 Example 9. Selected Embodiments II
           This  example describes selected embodiments            of the   invention,
   presented as a series of indexed paragraphs.
           A.     A transgenic plant comprising a construct that confers (1) a
   growth advantage on the plant for growth using a reduced form of phosphorus
25 as a nutrient and/or (2) a capability to metabolize at least one reduced form of
   phosphorus. The transgenic plant of this paragraph may be further described
   as follows: (Al) wherein the construct confers a growth advantage on the plant
   if phosphite is an at least substantially exclusive external source of phosphorus
   for the plant; (A2) wherein the construct confers a growth advantage on the
30 plant if hypophosphite is an at least substantially exclusive external source of
   phosphorus for the plant; (A3) wherein the construct confers a growth
   advantage on the plant if phosphite is an at least substantially exclusive

                                        44
   external source of phosphorus for the plant and if hypophosphite is an at least
   substantially exclusive external source of phosphorus for the plant; (A4)
   wherein the transgenic plant is capable of growth without phosphate as an
   external source of phosphorus, and wherein a non-transgenic variety of the
 5 transgenic plant lacking the construct is at least substantially unable to grow
   without phosphate as an external source of phosphorus; (A5) wherein the
   transgenic plant was transformed initially with the construct in a progenitor of
   the transgenic plant; (A6) wherein the construct encodes expression of one or
   more polypeptides that confer on the plant a capability to metabolize at least
10 one reduced form of phosphorus to phosphate, and, optionally, wherein at least
   one of the polypeptides oxidizes phosphite to phosphate, and, optionally,
   wherein at least one of the polypeptides is capable of using nicotinamide
   adenine     dinucleotide (NAD+)      and/or  nicotinamide   adenine  dinucleotide
   phosphate (NADP+) as an electron acceptor, and, optionally, wherein the one
15 or more polypeptides include a PtxD polypeptide, which, optionally, is encoded
   by a coding region originating at least substantially from Pseudomonas stutzeri,
   Alcaligenes faecalis, or Xanthobacter flavus; (A7) wherein the one or more
   polypeptides of A6 include an HtxA polypeptide; (A8) wherein expression of at
   least one of the one or more polypeptides of A6 or A7 is inducible; (A9) wherein
20 expression of at least one of the polypeptides of any of A6 through A8 is
   inducible by low phosphate; (AlO) wherein expression of at least one of the
   polypeptides of any of A6 through A9 is under control of a constitutive
   promoter; (Al 1) wherein expression of at least one of the polypeptides of any
   of A6 through A10 is under control of a leaf-specific promoter; (A12) wherein
25 expression of at least one of the polypeptides of any of A6 through Al1         is
   under control of a root-specific promoter; (A13) wherein expression of at least
   one of the polypeptides of any of A6 through Al 2 is under control of a promoter
   that is not tissue specific; or (Al4) any combination of Al through Al3.
           B.      A transgenic plant comprising a construct encoding a bacterial
30 polypeptide that confers on the plant a capability to metabolize phosphite to
   phosphate.

                                      45
          C.      A seed that germinates to produce, or any plant part used to
   produce or vegetatively reproduce, the transgenic plant of paragraph A or B.
           D.     A nucleic acid for generating a transgenic plant, comprising: a
   chimeric gene capable of conferring on a plant (1) a growth advantage for
 5 growth using a reduced form of phosphorus as a nutrient and/or (2) a capability
   to metabolize at least one reduced form of phosphorus. The nucleic acid of this
   paragraph may be further described as follows: (D1) wherein the chimeric gene
   includes a promoter operatively linked to a coding region, and wherein the
   promoter is capable of controlling expression of the coding region in a plant,
10 and, optionally, wherein the coding region encodes one or more polypeptides
   that oxidize phosphite to phosphate, and, optionally, wherein the coding region
   is provided at least substantially by a ptxD gene; (D2) wherein the chimeric
   gene includes a promoter operatively linked to a coding region, and wherein the
   promoter originated at least substantially in a plant and/or a plant virus, and,
15 optionally, wherein the promoter includes a 35S promoter from Cauliflower
   Mosaic Virus; (D3) further comprising a transcriptional terminator that is
   functional in a plant and operatively linked to the promoter and the coding
   region of D1 or D2; (D4) wherein the coding region of any of D1 through D3
   encodes a polypeptide that oxidizes phosphite to phosphate; (D5) wherein the
20 nucleic acid is disposed in a microorganism; (D6) wherein the nucleic acid is
   isolated from cells; (D7) wherein the nucleic acid is disposed in a transgenic
   plant; or (D8) any combination of D1 through D7.
           E.     A method of generating a transgenic plant, comprising: selecting
   for transformation of a plant or plant part using, as a selectable marker, a
25 nucleic acid that confers a capability to metabolize a reduced form of
   phosphorus. The method of this paragraph may be further described as follows:
   (El) wherein the step of selecting for transformation includes a step of
   selecting for a growth advantage of the plant or plant part, relative to other
   plants or plant parts, with one or more reduced forms of phosphorus as an
30 external source of phosphorus for the plants or plant parts; (E2) wherein the
   step of selecting for a growth advantage in El is performed with the plants or
   plant parts in contact with a medium containing phosphite, hypophosphite, or

                                        46
   both; (E3) wherein the step of selecting for a growth advantage of El or E2 is
   performed with the medium containing at least substantially no phosphate;
   (E4), further comprising a step of contacting the plant or plant part, a progenitor
   thereof, or both, with a modifying agent including a construct that provides the
 5 selectable    marker;  (E5)   wherein   the   modifying  agent of E4       includes
   Agrobacterium cells containing the construct; (E6) wherein the construct of E4
   or E5 encodes a polypeptide that oxidizes phosphite to phosphate; (E7)
   wherein the construct of any of E4 through E6 encodes a polypeptide that
   oxidizes hypophosphite to phosphate; (E8) wherein the step of contacting of
10 any of E4 through E7 includes a step of firing projectiles at the plant or plant
   part, a progenitor thereof, or both; (E9) wherein the step of selecting for
   transformation is performed with a plant part, and wherein the plant part is a
   tissue explant or an isolated plant cell; or (El0) any combination of El through
   E9.
15         F.     A method of fertilizing the transgenic plant of paragraph A or B,
   wherein a reduced form of phosphorus is used as foliar fertilizer or added to
   amend soil composition to provide a source of phosphate to sustain plant
   growth and reproduction.
           G.     A method of water remediation, comprising: contacting (i) an
20 effluent including phosphite and (ii) a transgenic plant comprising a construct
   that confers a capability to metabolize phosphite to phosphate, thereby
   reducing a level of phosphite in the effluent.
   Example 10. Selected Embodiments III
           This  example describes selected embodiments of the              invention,
25 presented as a series of indexed paragraphs.
           A.     A nucleic acid, comprising: a chimeric gene including (a) a coding
   region that encodes a phosphite dehydrogenase enzyme and (b) a transcription
   promoter operatively linked to the coding region, wherein the promoter is
   heterologous with respect to the coding region and is functional in plants, fungi,
30 or both, and wherein the chimeric gene provides sufficient expression of the
   enzyme, in a plant or fungal cell containing the chimeric gene, to confer an
   ability on the cell to metabolize phosphite (Phi) as a phosphorus source for

                                        47
   supporting growth, thereby enabling growth of the cell without an external
   source of phosphate (Pi). The nucleic acid of this paragraph may be described
   further as follows: (Al) wherein the phosphite dehydrogenase enzyme is of
   bacterial origin; (A2) wherein the phosphite dehydrogenase enzyme is PtxD of
 5 Pseudomonas stutzeri (SEQ ID NO:1), an analog or derivative of PtxD (SEQ ID
   NO:1), or a PtxD-like homolog from another bacterial species; (A3) wherein the
   bacterial phosphite dehydrogenase enzyme has an amino acid sequence with
   at least 50%, 60%, 80%, 90%, or 95% sequence identity to at least one of SEQ
   ID NOS:1-14; (A4) wherein the phosphite dehydrogenase enzyme has an
10 amino acid sequence including a first sequence region having an NAD-binding
   motif with sequence similarity or identity to VGILGMGAIG (SEQ ID NO:15), a
   second     sequence      region  having     sequence    similarity or   identity   to
   XPGALLVNPCRGSVVD (SEQ ID NO:16), where X is K or R, a third sequence
   region having sequence similarity or identity to GWX 1 PX 2X3YX 4X5 GL (SEQ ID
15 NO.19), where X1 is R, Q, T, or K, X2 is A, V, Q, R, K, H, or E, X 3 is L or F, X4 is
   G, F, or S, and X5 is T, R, M, L, A, or S, or includes any combination of the first,
   second,     and    third   sequence     regions;   (A5)  wherein   the    phosphite
   dehydrogenase enzyme has an amino acid sequence that is at least 90%
   identical to PtxD from Pseudomonas stutzeri (SEQ ID NO:1); (A6) wherein the
20 chimeric gene further includes a transcription terminator that is operatively
   linked to the coding region and heterologous with respect to the coding region;
   (A7) wherein the promoter is a plant promoter or a viral promoter of a plant
   virus and is capable of promoting the sufficient expression of the enzyme in a
   plant cell; (A8) wherein the promoter of A7 corresponds to the 35S promoter of
25 Cauliflower Mosaic Virus; (A9) wherein the promoter of A7 is inducible by low
   phosphate availability; (A10) wherein the promoter of A9 corresponds to a
   promoter of the PLDZ2 gene of Arabidopsis thaliana; (Al1)              wherein the
   chimeric gene is capable of promoting the sufficient expression of the enzyme
   both in a plant cell and in a fungal cell each containing the chimeric gene; (A12)
30 wherein the promoter is a fungal promoter capable of promoting the sufficient
   expression of the enzyme in a fungal cell; (A13) wherein one or more codons of
   the coding region have been changed in vitro to improve translational efficiency

                                        48
   in plants and/or fungi; (Al 4) further comprising an intron connected to the
   coding region and configured to be transcribed with the coding region and
   removed by splicing after transcription, wherein the intron is optionally disposed
   within the coding region; (A15) wherein the coding region has at least 90%
 5 sequence identity with SEQ ID NO:21; or (A16) any combination of Al through
   A15.
           B.     A plant cell comprising a nucleic acid that expresses a phosphite
   dehydrogenase enzyme in the plant cell and capable of metabolizing phosphite
   as a source of phosphorus for supporting growth. Optionally, the nucleic acid is
10 according to paragraph A. The plant cell of this paragraph may be described
   further as follows: (B1) further comprising an other nucleic acid that expresses
   a hypophosphite dehydrogenase enzyme, optionally of bacterial origin, in the
   plant cell; (B2) the plant cell of B1 wherein the nucleic acids collectively confer
   an ability on the cell to metabolize hypophosphite (Hphi) as a phosphorus
15 source for supporting growth; (B3) wherein the other nucleic acid of B1 or B2
   encodes a polypeptide with at least 95% sequence identify to HtxA of
   Pseudomonas stutzeri (SEQ ID NO:20); (B4) the plant cell of any of B1 through
   B3, wherein the nucleic acids are integrated adjacent one another in the
   genome      of the   plant cell; (B5)   wherein   expression of the      phosphite
20 dehydrogenase enzyme, the hypophosphite dehydrogenase enzyme, or both
   are controlled by a root-specific promoter; (B6) wherein the plant cell is
   homozygous for the nucleic acid; (B7) wherein the plant cell is a eukaryotic
   algal cell; (B8) wherein the algal cell of B7 is a Chlamydomonas cell; (B9)
   wherein the plant cell is from a species of vascular plant; or (B10) any
25 combination of B1 through B9.
          C.      A plant composed of a plurality of plant cells according to
   paragraph B. The plant of this paragraph may be described further as follows:
   (Cl) wherein the plant is a vascular plant, such as a species of crop plant, (C2)
   wherein the species of crop plant of C1 is selected from the group consisting of
30 maize, soybean, rice, potatoes, tomatoes, sugarcane, and wheat.
           D.     A fungal cell comprising a nucleic acid that expresses a phosphite
   dehydrogenase enzyme in the fungal cell and capable of metabolizing

                                       49
   phosphite as a source of phosphorus for supporting growth. Optionally, the
   nucleic acid is according to paragraph A. The fungal cell of this paragraph may
   be described further as follows: (Dl) further comprising a nucleic acid that
   expresses a bacterial hypophosphite dehydrogenase enzyme in the fungal cell;
 5 (D2) the fungal cell of D1, wherein the nucleic acids collectively confer an ability
   on the cell to metabolize hypophosphite (Hphi) as a phosphorus source for
   supporting growth of the fungal cell; (D3) wherein the fungal cell is from a
   species of Trichoderma; (D4) wherein the fungal cell is a member of a species
   of mycorrhizal fungus capable of forming a symbiotic relationship with a plant;
10 or (D5) any combination of D1 through D4.
          E.     A method of reducing fungal infections in plants, comprising:
   applying a plurality of the fungal cells of paragraph D to a seed form of plants,
   the plants themselves, soil in which the plants are disposed, or a combination
   thereof. In some cases, the fungal cells may be spores.
15        F.     A plant associated with a plurality of fungal cells according to
   paragraph D to form mycorrhizae. Optionally, the fungal cells render the plant
   capable of growing on a medium containing phosphite (Phi), hypophosphite
   (Hphi), or both, as a phosphorus source for supporting growth.
          G.     A method of fertilizing a crop plant using hypophosphite and/or
20 phosphite as a phosphorus source for supporting growth, the crop plant (a)
   including a plurality of cells comprising the nucleic acid of paragraph A, (b)
   forming mycorrhizae with a mycorrhizal fungus comprising the nucleic acid of
   paragraph A, and/or (c) being associated with a              Trichoderma fungus
   comprising the nucleic of claim 1, the method comprising: applying at least one
25 reduced form of phosphorus to the plant and/or to soil adjacent the plant, such
   that the reduced form is metabolized to phosphate by the plant and/or the
   fungus to support growth and productivity of the plant.
          H.     A method of fertilizing the plant of paragraph C, the method
   comprising: applying at least one reduced form of phosphorus to the plant
30 and/or to soil adjacent the plant, such that the reduced form is metabolized to
   phosphate by the plant to support growth and productivity of the plant.
   Optionally, the reduced form may be applied as foliar fertilizer or added to

                                       50
   amend soil to provide a source of phosphate to sustain plant growth and
   reproduction of the plant.
           I.     A method of treating water to lower its content of reduced
   phosphorus,       the   method    comprising:     contacting     water    containing
 5 hypophosphite and/or phosphite with a plurality of the plant cells and/or fungal
   cells comprising the nucleic acid of paragraph A, such that at least a portion of
   the hypophosphite and/or phosphite is oxidized to phosphite and/or phosphate.
   Optionally, the step of contacting includes a step of contacting the water with a
   plurality of vascular plants composed of plant cells comprising the nucleic acid
10 of paragraph A.
           J.     A method of treating liquid waste to lower its content of reduced
   phosphorus,      the   method   comprising:     contacting   (i) water    containing
   hypophosphite and/or phosphite as a contaminant and (ii) a plurality of the
   plant cells and/or fungal cells comprising the nucleic of paragraph A, such that
15 at least a portion of the hypophosphite and/or phosphite is oxidized to
   phosphite and/or phosphate.
           K.     A method of utilizing the nucleic acid of paragraph A for
   production of a transgenic plant, comprising: selecting for growth of plant cells
   comprising the nucleic acid of paragraph A as a selectable marker during
20 production of a transgenic plant.
           L.     A method of obtaining a plant transformed with a nucleic acid
   encoding a phosphite dehydrogenase enzyme that is expressible from the
   nucleic acid as a selectable marker, comprising: contacting plant cells and a
   composition     including the   nucleic acid     under   conditions that    promote
25 introduction of the nucleic acid into at least a subset of the plant cells; culturing
   the plant cells in a medium containing phosphite as a primary or exclusive
   phosphorus source for growth; selecting transformed plant cells produced by
   the   steps of contacting      and culturing,    and   expressing the      phosphite
   dehydrogenase enzyme as evidenced by growth in the medium;                       and
30 regenerating at least a portion of the transformed plant cells into a transgenic
   plant. The method of this paragraph may be described further as follows: (L1)
   wherein the composition includes Agrobacterium cells that supply the nucleic

                                         51
   acid during the step of contacting; or (L2) wherein the composition includes
   projectiles that are fired at the plant cells in the step of contacting.
           M.     A plant, comprising: a nucleic acid including a chimeric gene
   expressing a phosphite dehydrogenase enzyme such that the plant is capable
 5 of metabolizing phosphite (Phi) as a phosphorus source for supporting growth,
   thereby enabling growth of the plant without an external source of phosphate
   (Pi). The plant of this paragraph may be described further as follows: (Ml)
   wherein the nucleic acid is stably integrated into the genome of the plant; (M2)
   wherein the plant is a vascular plant; (M3) wherein the plant is a species of
10 algae; (M4) wherein the phosphite dehydrogenase enzyme has any of the
   features of paragraph A; or (M5) any combination of M1 through M4.
           N.     A fungus, comprising: a nucleic acid including a chimeric gene
   expressing a phosphite dehydrogenase enzyme such that the fungus is
   capable of metabolizing phosphite (Phi) as a phosphorus source for supporting
15 growth, thereby enabling growth of the fungus without an external source of
   phosphate (Pi). The fungus of this paragraph may be described further as
   follows: (N1) wherein the nucleic acid is stably integrated into the genome of
   the fungus; (N2) wherein the fungus is a species of Trichoderma; (N3) wherein
   the fungus is a mycorrhizal species capable of forming a symbiotic relationship
20 with a plant; (N4) further comprising a plant associated with the fungus to form
   mycorrhizae; (N5) wherein the phosphite dehydrogenase enzyme has any of
   the features of paragraph A; or (N6) any combination of N1 through N5.
          The disclosure set forth above may encompass multiple distinct
   inventions with independent utility. Although each of these inventions has been
25 disclosed in its preferred form(s), the specific embodiments thereof as
   disclosed and illustrated herein are not to be considered in a limiting sense,
   because numerous variations are possible. The subject matter of the inventions
   includes all novel and nonobvious combinations and subcombinations of the
   various elements, features, functions, and/or properties disclosed herein. The
30 following    claims     particularly    point    out   certain   combinations and
   subcombinations regarded as novel and nonobvious. Inventions embodied in
   other combinations and subcombinations of features, functions, elements,

                                      52
  and/or properties may be claimed in applications claiming priority from this or a
  related application. Such claims, whether directed to a different invention or to
  the same invention, and whether broader, narrower, equal, or different in scope
  to the original claims, also are regarded as included within the subject matter of
5 the inventions of the present disclosure.

                                        53
   CLAIMS:
           1.     A nucleic acid, comprising:
           a chimeric gene including (a) a coding region that encodes a phosphite
   dehydrogenase enzyme and (b) a transcription promoter operatively linked to
 5 the coding region,
           wherein the promoter is heterologous with respect to the coding region
   and is functional in plants, fungi, or both, and
           wherein the chimeric gene provides sufficient expression of the enzyme,
   in a plant or fungal cell containing the chimeric gene, to confer an ability on the
10 cell to metabolize phosphite (Phi) as a phosphorus source for supporting
   growth, thereby enabling growth of the cell without an external source of
   phosphate (Pi).
           2.     The    nucleic   acid    of   claim 1,   wherein   the   phosphite
15 dehydrogenase enzyme is of bacterial origin.
           3.     The    nucleic   acid    of   claim 2,  wherein    the   phosphite
   dehydrogenase enzyme is PtxD of Pseudomonas stutzeri (SEQ ID NO:1), an
   analog or derivative of the PtxD of SEQ ID NO:1, or a PtxD-like homolog from
20 another bacterial species.
           4.     The nucleic acid of claim 2, wherein the bacterial phosphite
   dehydrogenase enzyme has an amino acid sequence with at least 80%
   sequence identity to at least one of SEQ ID NOS:1-14.
25
           5.     The    nucleic   acid    of   claim 1,  wherein    the   phosphite
   dehydrogenase enzyme has an amino acid sequence including a first
   sequence region having an NAD-binding motif with sequence similarity or
   identity to VGILGMGAIG (SEQ ID NO:15), a second sequence region having
30 sequence similarity or identity to XPGALLVNPCRGSVVD (SEQ ID NO:16),
   where X is K or R, and a third sequence region having sequence similarity or
   identity to GWX 1 PX 2X3YX 4X5 GL (SEQ ID NO.19), where X1 is R, Q, T, or K, X2

                                        54
   is A, V, Q, R, K, H, or E, X3 is L or F, X4 is G, F, or S, and X5 is T, R, M, L, A, or
   S.
           6.     The    nucleic   acid    of   claim   1,   wherein    the    phosphite
 5 dehydrogenase enzyme has an amino acid sequence that is at least 90%
   identical to PtxD from Pseudomonas stutzeri (SEQ ID NO:1).
           7.     The nucleic acid of claim 1, wherein the chimeric gene further
   includes a transcription terminator that is operatively linked to the coding region
10 and heterologous with respect to the coding region.
           8.     The nucleic acid of claim 1, wherein the promoter is a plant
   promoter or a viral promoter of a plant virus and is capable of promoting the
   sufficient expression of the enzyme in a plant cell.
15
           9.     The nucleic acid of claim 8, wherein the promoter corresponds to
   the 35S promoter of Cauliflower Mosaic Virus.
           10.    The nucleic acid of claim 8, wherein the promoter is inducible by
20 low phosphate availability.
           11.    The nucleic acid of claim 8, wherein the promoter corresponds to
   a promoter of the PLDZ2 gene of Arabidopsis thaliana.
25         12.    The nucleic acid of claim 1, wherein the chimeric gene is capable
   of promoting the sufficient expression of the enzyme both in a plant cell and in
   a fungal cell each containing the chimeric gene.
           13.    The nucleic acid of claim 1, wherein the promoter is a fungal
30 promoter capable of promoting the sufficient expression of the enzyme in a
   fungal cell.

                                       55
          14.    A plant cell comprising the nucleic acid of any one of claims 1-12
   and capable of metabolizing phosphite as a source of phosphorus for
   supporting growth.
 5        15.    The plant cell of claim 14, further comprising a nucleic acid that
   expresses a bacterial hypophosphite dehydrogenase enzyme in the plant cell.
          16.    The plant cell of claim 15, wherein the nucleic acids collectively
   confer an ability on the cell to metabolize hypophosphite (Hphi) as a
10 phosphorus source for supporting growth.
          17.    The plant cell of claim 16, wherein expression of the phosphite
   dehydrogenase enzyme, the bacterial hypophosphite dehydrogenase enzyme,
   or both are controlled by a root-specific promoter.
15
          18.    The plant cell of claim 14, wherein the plant cell is a eukaryotic
   algal cell.
          19.    The    plant cell of claim     18, wherein    the algal cell   is a
20 Chlamydomonas cell.
          20.    The plant cell of claim 14, wherein the plant cell is from a species
   of vascular plant.
25        21.    A plant composed of a plurality of plant cells according to claim
   14.
          22.    A plant composed of a plurality of plant cells according to claim
   20.
30
          23.    The plant of claim 22, wherein the plant is a species of crop plant.

                                       56
          24.    The plant of claim 23, wherein the species of crop plant is
   selected from the group consisting of maize, soybean, rice, potatoes, tomatoes,
   sugarcane, and wheat.
 5        25.    A fungal cell comprising the nucleic acid of any one of claims 1-7,
   12, and 13 and capable of metabolizing phosphite as a source of phosphorus
   for supporting growth.
          26.    The fungal cell of claim 25, further comprising a nucleic acid that
10 expresses a bacterial hypophosphite dehydrogenase enzyme in the fungal cell.
          27.    The fungal cell of claim 26, wherein the nucleic acids collectively
   confer an ability on the cell to metabolize hypophosphite (Hphi) as a
   phosphorus source for supporting growth.
15
          28.    The fungal cell of claim 25, wherein the fungal cell is from a
   species of Trichoderma.
          29.    A method of reducing fungal infections in plants, the method
20 comprising:
          applying a plurality of the fungal cells of claim 25 to a seed form of
   plants, the plants themselves, soil in which the plants are or will be disposed, or
   a combination thereof.
25        30.    The fungal cell of claim 25, wherein the fungal cell is a member of
   a species of mycorrhizal fungus capable of forming a symbiotic relationship
   with a plant.
          31.    A plant associated with a plurality of fungal cells according to
30 claim 30 to form mycorrhizae.

                                       57
          32.     The plant of claim 31, wherein the fungal cells render the plant
   capable of growing on a medium containing phosphite (Phi) as a phosphorus
   source for supporting growth.
 5        33.     A method of fertilizing a crop plant using hypophosphite and/or
   phosphite as a phosphorus source for supporting growth, the crop plant (a)
   including a plurality of cells comprising the nucleic acid of claim 1, (b) forming
   mycorrhizae with a mycorrhizal fungus comprising the nucleic of claim 1, and/or
   (c) being associated with a Trichoderma fungus comprising the nucleic acid of
10 claim 1, the method comprising:
          applying at least one reduced form of phosphorus to the plant and/or to
   soil adjacent the plant, such that the reduced form is metabolized to phosphate
   by the plant and/or the fungus to support growth and productivity of the plant.
15        34.     A method of fertilizing the plant of claim 22, the method
   comprising:
          applying at least one reduced form of phosphorus to the plant and/or to
   soil adjacent the plant, such that the reduced form is metabolized to phosphate
   by the plant to support growth and productivity of the plant.
20
          35.     A method of treating liquid waste to lower its content of reduced
   phosphorus, the method comprising:
          contacting (i) water containing hypophosphite and/or phosphite as a
   contaminant and (ii) a plurality of the plant cells and/or fungal cells comprising
25 the nucleic of claim 1, such that at least a portion of the hypophosphite and/or
   phosphite is oxidized to phosphite and/or phosphate.
          36.     The method of claim 35, wherein the step of contacting includes a
   step of contacting the water and a plurality of vascular plants composed of
30 plant cells comprising the nucleic acid of claim 1.

                                         58
          37.     A method of isolating transformed cells containing the nucleic
   acid of claim 1, the method comprising:
          contacting cells selected from plant cells and fungal cells with a
   composition comprising the nucleic acid of claim 1; and
 5        selectively proliferating one or more of the cells that have been
   transformed by the nucleic acid by culturing the cells in a medium containing
   phosphite and lacking sufficient phosphate to support growth.
          38.     A method of utilizing the nucleic acid of claim 1 for production of a
10 transgenic plant, the method comprising:
          selecting for growth of plant cells comprising the nucleic acid of claim 1
   as a selectable marker during production of a transgenic plant.
          39.     A method of obtaining a plant transformed with a nucleic acid
15 encoding a phosphite dehydrogenase enzyme that is expressible from the
   nucleic acid as a selectable marker, comprising:
          contacting plant cells and a composition including the nucleic acid under
   conditions that promote introduction of the nucleic acid into at least a subset of
   the plant cells;
20        culturing the plant cells in a medium containing phosphite as a primary
   or exclusive phosphorus source for growth;
          selecting transformed plant cells produced by the steps of contacting
   and culturing, and expressing the phosphite dehydrogenase enzyme as
   evidenced by growth in the medium; and
25        regenerating at least a portion of the transformed plant cells into a
   transgenic plant.
          40.     The method of claim 39, wherein the composition includes
   Agrobacterium cells that supply the nucleic acid during the step of contacting.
30
          41.     The method of claim 39, wherein the composition includes
   projectiles that are fired at the plant cells in the step of contacting.

                                      59
          42.    A plant, comprising:
          a nucleic acid including a chimeric gene expressing a phosphite
   dehydrogenase enzyme such that the plant is capable of metabolizing
   phosphite (Phi) as a phosphorus source for supporting growth, thereby
 5 enabling growth of the plant without an external source of phosphate (Pi).
          43.    The plant of claim 42, wherein the nucleic acid is stably integrated
   into the genome of the plant.
10        44.    The plant of claim 42, wherein the plant is a vascular plant.
          45.    The plant of claim 42, wherein the plant is a species of algae.
          46.    A fungus, comprising:
15        a nucleic acid including a chimeric gene expressing a phosphite
   dehydrogenase enzyme such that the fungus is capable of metabolizing
   phosphite (Phi) as a phosphorus source for supporting growth, thereby
   enabling growth of the fungus without an external source of phosphate (Pi).
20        47.    The fungus of claim 46, wherein the nucleic acid is stably
   integrated into the genome of the fungus.
          48.    The fungus of claim 46, wherein the fungus is a species of
   Trichoderma.
25
          49.    The fungus of claim 46, wherein the fungus is a mycorrhizal
   species capable of forming a symbiotic relationship with a plant.

                                            60
50.   The fungus of claim 46, further comprising a plant associated with the fungus to form
mycorrhizae.
 Centro de Investigaci6n y de Estudios Avanzados del Instituto Politecnico Nacional
                                      (CINVESTAV)
               Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                            5293937_1
<removed-date>
                                               SEQUENCE LI STI NG
              <110>   Cent r o de I nv es t i gac i on y de Es t udi os Av anz ados del
                      I ns t i t ut o Pol i t ec ni c o Nac i onal
                      Her r er a- Es t r el l a, Lui s R
                      Lopez - Ar r edondo, Damar L
                      Her r er a- Es t r el l a, Al f r edo H
              <120>   TRANSGENI C PLANTS AND FUNGI CAPABLE OF METABOLI ZI NG PHOSPHI TE AS
                      A SOURCE OF PHOSPHORUS
              <130>   LI P 301PCT
<removed-apn>
              <150>   US 61/ 199, 784
              <151>   2008- 11- 19
              <160>   23
              <170>   Pat ent I n v er s i on 3. 5
              <210>   1
              <211>   336
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ps eudomonas s t ut z er i
              <400>   1
              Met Leu Pr o Ly s Leu Val I l e Thr Hi s Ar g Val Hi s As p Gl u I l e Leu
              1                 5                      10                      15
              Gl n Leu Leu Al a Pr o Hi s Cy s Gl u Leu Met Thr As n Gl n Thr As p Ser
                           20                       25                    30
              Thr Leu Thr Ar g Gl u Gl u I l e Leu Ar g Ar g Cy s Ar g As p Al a Gl n Al a
                      35                       40                      45
              Met Met Al a Phe Met Pr o As p Ar g Val As p Al a As p Phe Leu Gl n Al a
                  50                    55                      60
              Cy s Pr o Gl u Leu Ar g Val Val Gl y Cy s Al a Leu Ly s Gl y Phe As p As n
              65                      70                     75                     80
              Phe As p Val As p Al a Cy s Thr Al a Ar g Gl y Val Tr p Leu Thr Phe Val
                                85                      90                    95
              Pr o As p Leu Leu Thr Val Pr o Thr Al a Gl u Leu Al a I l e Gl y Leu Al a
                            100                  105                      110
              Val Gl y Leu Gl y Ar g Hi s Leu Ar g Al a Al a As p Al a Phe Val Ar g Ser
                       115                    120                      125
              Gl y Gl u Phe Gl n Gl y Tr p Gl n Pr o Gl n Phe Ty r Gl y Thr Gl y Leu As p
                   130                     135                     140
                                                              Page 1

                                                         5293937_1
<removed-date>
              As n Al a Thr Val Gl y I l e Leu Gl y Met Gl y Al a I l e Gl y Leu Al a Met
              145                    150                     155                      160
              Al a As p Ar g Leu Gl n Gl y Tr p Gl y Al a Thr Leu Gl n Ty r Hi s Gl u Al a
                                 165                      170                    175
              Ly s Al a Leu As p Thr Gl n Thr Gl u Gl n Ar g Leu Gl y Leu Ar g Gl n Val
                            180                    185                    190
<removed-apn>
              Al a Cy s Ser Gl u Leu Phe Al a Ser Ser As p Phe I l e Leu Leu Al a Leu
                        195                   200                    205
              Pr o Leu As n Al a As p Thr Gl n Hi s Leu Val As n Al a Gl u Leu Leu Al a
                   210                    215                    220
              Leu Val Ar g Pr o Gl y Al a Leu Leu Val As n Pr o Cy s Ar g Gl y Ser Val
              225                    230                   235                     240
              Val As p Gl u Al a Al a Val Leu Al a Al a Leu Gl u Ar g Gl y Gl n Leu Gl y
                                 245                    250                     255
              Gl y Ty r Al a Al a As p Val Phe Gl u Met Gl u As p Tr p Al a Ar g Al a As p
                             260                    265                     270
              Ar g Pr o Ar g Leu I l e As p Pr o Al a Leu Leu Al a Hi s Pr o As n Thr Leu
                        275                      280                    285
              Phe Thr Pr o Hi s I l e Gl y Ser Al a Val Ar g Al a Val Ar g Leu Gl u I l e
                  290                      295                    300
              Gl u Ar g Cy s Al a Al a Gl n As n I l e I l e Gl n Val Leu Al a Gl y Al a Ar g
              305                      310                        315                    320
              Pr o I l e As n Al a Al a As n Ar g Leu Pr o Ly s Al a Gl u Pr o Al a Al a Cy s
                                   325                     330                      335
              <210>   2
              <211>   335
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ac i net obac t er r adi or es i s t ens
              <400>   2
              Met Ly s Gl n Ly s I l e Val Leu Thr Hi s Tr p Val Hi s Pr o Gl u I l e I l e
              1                  5                      10                      15
              As p Ty r Leu Gl n Ser Val Al a As p Val Val Pr o As n Met Thr Ar g As p
                            20                     25                    30
                                                                 Page 2

                                                       5293937_1
<removed-date>
              Thr Met Ser Ar g Al a Gl u Leu Leu Gl u Ar g Al a Ly s As p Al a As p Al a
                      35                     40                      45
              Leu Met Val Phe Met Pr o As p Ser I l e As p As p As p Phe Leu Al a Ser
                  50                   55                       60
              Cy s Pr o Ly s Leu Ly s I l e Val Ser Al a Al a Leu Ly s Gl y Ty r As p As n
              65                      70                      75                      80
<removed-apn>
              Phe As p Val As p Al a Cy s Thr Ar g Ar g Gl y I l e Tr p Phe Ser I l e Val
                                85                      90                      95
              Pr o As p Leu Leu Thr I l e Pr o Thr Al a Gl u Leu Thr I l e Gl y Leu Leu
                            100                    105                     110
              Leu Gl y Leu Thr Ar g Hi s Leu Al a Gl u Gl y As p Ar g Ar g I l e Ar g Thr
                       115                   120                      125
              Hi s Gl y Phe As n Gl y Tr p Ar g Pr o Gl u Leu Ty r Gl y Thr Gl y Leu Thr
                   130                     135                     140
              Gl y Ar g Thr Leu Gl y I l e I l e Gl y Met Gl y Al a Val Gl y Ar g Al a I l e
              145                    150                       155                     160
              Al a Ly s Ar g Leu Ser Ser Phe As p Met Ar g Val Leu Ty r Cy s As p As p
                                 165                  170                    175
              I l e Al a Leu As n Gl n Gl u Gl n Gl u Ly s Al a Tr p As n Al a Ar g Gl n Val
                             180                      185                      190
              Ser Leu As p Gl u Leu Leu Ser Ser Ser As p Phe Val Val Pr o Met Leu
                      195                   200                  205
              Pr o Met Thr Pr o Gl n Thr Leu Hi s Leu Leu As n Al a Gl u Thr I l e Gl y
                   210                   215                   220
              Thr Met Ar g Thr Gl y Ser Ty r Leu I l e As n Al a Cy s Ar g Gl y Ser Val
              225                   230                     235                     240
              Val As p Gl u Leu Al a Val Al a Gl u Al a Leu Gl u Ser Gl y Ly s Leu Al a
                                245                     250                    255
              Gl y Ty r Al a Al a As p Val Phe Gl u Leu Gl u Gl u Tr p I l e Ar g Val As p
                             260                    265                      270
              Ar g Pr o Thr Al a I l e Pr o Gl n Gl u Leu Leu Thr As n Thr Al a Gl n Thr
                        275                      280                   285
                                                              Page 3

                                                           5293937_1
<removed-date>
              Phe Phe Thr Pr o Hi s Leu Gl y Ser Al a Val As p As p Val Ar g Phe Gl u
                  290                   295                    300
              I l e Gl u Gl n Leu Al a Al a As n As n I l e Leu Gl n Al a Leu Thr Gl y Gl n
              305                      310                      315                    320
              Ar g Pr o Ser As p Al a I l e As n As n Pr o I l e Leu Gl u Gl y Val As n
                                 325                       330                     335
<removed-apn>
              <210>   3
              <211>   333
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Al c al i genes f aec al i s
              <400>   3
              Met Ly s Pr o Ar g I l e Val Thr Thr Hi s Ar g I l e Hi s Pr o As p Thr Leu
              1                  5                      10                        15
              Al a Leu Leu Gl u Thr Al a Al a Gl u Val I l e Ser As n Gl n Ser As p Ser
                           20                      25                      30
              Thr Met Ser Ar g Gl u Gl u Val Leu Leu Ar g Thr As n As p Al a As p Gl y
                      35                     40                    45
              Met Met Val Phe Met Pr o As p Ser I l e As p Al a As p Phe Leu Ser Al a
                  50                   55                       60
              Cy s Pr o As n Leu Ly s Val I l e Gl y Al a Al a Leu Ly s Gl y Ty r As p As n
              65                      70                       75                      80
              Phe As p Val Gl u Al a Cy s Thr Ar g Hi s Gl y I l e Tr p Phe Thr I l e Val
                                85                      90                      95
              Pr o As p Leu Leu Thr Ser Pr o Thr Al a Gl u Leu Thr I l e Gl y Leu Leu
                            100                  105                     110
              Leu Ser I l e Thr Ar g As n Met Leu Gl n Gl y As p As n Ty r I l e Ar g Ser
                      115                     120                     125
              Ar g Gl n Phe As n Gl y Tr p Thr Pr o Ar g Phe Ty r Gl y Thr Gl y Leu Thr
                   130                     135                    140
              Gl y Ly s Thr Al a Gl y I l e I l e Gl y Thr Gl y Al a Val Gl y Ar g Al a Val
              145                     150                       155                     160
              Al a Ly s Ar g Leu Al a Al a Phe As p Met Gl n I l e Gl n Ty r Thr As p Pr o
                                 165                    170                      175
                                                             Page 4

                                                           5293937_1
<removed-date>
              Gl n Pr o Leu Pr o Gl n Gl u Ser Gl u Ar g Al a Tr p As n Al a Ser Ar g Thr
                            180                     185                      190
              Ser Leu As p Gl n Leu Leu Al a Thr Ser As p Phe I l e I l e Pr o Met Leu
                      195                    200                    205
              Pr o Met Ser Ser As p Thr Hi s Hi s Thr I l e As n Al a Ar g Al a Leu As p
                   210                  215                      220
<removed-apn>
              Ar g Met Ly s Pr o Gl y Al a Ty r Leu Val As n Al a Cy s Ar g Gl y Ser I l e
              225                     230                    235                     240
              Val As p Gl u Ar g Al a Val Val Hi s Al a Leu Ar g Thr Gl y Hi s Leu Gl y
                                 245                    250                    255
              Gl y Ty r Al a Al a As p Val Phe Gl u Met Gl u Gl u Tr p Al a Ar g Pr o As p
                             260                    265                     270
              Ar g Pr o Hi s Ser I l e Pr o As p Gl u Leu Leu As p Pr o Al a Leu Pr o Thr
                        275                      280                    285
              Phe Phe Thr Pr o Hi s Leu Gl y Ser Al a Val Ly s Ser Val Ar g Met Gl u
                  290                   295                    300
              I l e Gl u Ar g Gl u Al a Al a Leu Ser I l e Leu Gl u Al a Leu Gl n Gl y Ar g
              305                       310                    315                     320
              I l e Pr o Ar g Gl y Al a Val As n Hi s Val Gl y Al a Gl y Ar g
                                   325                    330
              <210>   4
              <211>   332
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Cy anot hec e s p. CCY0110
              <400>   4
              Met Ser Gl n Ly s Pr o Ly s Val Val I l e Thr Hi s Tr p I l e Hi s Pr o Gl u
              1                 5                       10                       15
              Val I l e As p Ty r Leu As n Pr o Ty r Cy s Gl u Leu I l e Leu As n Gl n Thr
                             20                      25                      30
              Ly s Gl u Thr Leu Ser Ar g Gl u Gl u Val I l e As n Ar g Ser Ar g As n Al a
                        35                    40                       45
              Gl n Gl y Leu Met Val Phe Met Pr o As p Hi s I l e As p Val Ly s Phe Leu
                   50                   55                       60
                                                             Page 5

                                                             5293937_1
<removed-date>
              Gl u Al a Cy s Pr o As n Leu Ly s Val I l e Ser Gl y Al a Leu Ar g Gl y Ty r
              65                       70                     75                      80
              As p As n Phe As p Val Gl u Al a Cy s Thr Ly s Hi s As n I l e Tr p Phe Thr
                                 85                     90                        95
              I l e Val Pr o As p Leu Leu Al a Al a Pr o Thr Al a Gl u Leu Thr I l e Gl y
                             100                    105                    110
<removed-apn>
              Leu Leu I l e I l e Leu Al a Ar g Ar g Met Leu Gl u Gl y As p Ar g Leu I l e
                      115                       120                    125
              Ar g Ser As p As n Phe Gl n Gl y Tr p Ly s Pr o Gl n Leu Ty r Gl y Thr Gl y
                   130                    135                      140
              Leu Leu As n Ly s Ser Leu Gl y I l e I l e Gl y Met Gl y Ly s Leu Gl y Ly s
              145                   150                       155                    160
              Al a Leu Al a Ly s Ar g Leu Val Gl y Phe As p Met As n Leu Leu Ty r Thr
                                 165                   170                   175
              As p Pr o I l e Ser Leu Thr As n Gl n Gl n Gl u Ly s As p Tr p Ly s I l e Ser
                              180                   185                      190
              Ly s Thr Ser Leu Gl u Gl u Leu Leu Ser Ly s Ser As p Ty r Val Val Leu
                       195                   200                   205
              Met Val Ser Leu Val Pr o As p Thr Ty r Hi s Leu I l e As n Gl u As n Thr
                  210                  215                    220
              Leu Ly s Leu Met Ly s Pr o Ly s Ser Phe Leu I l e As n Pr o Cy s Ar g Gl y
              225                   230                   235                       240
              Ser Val Val As p Gl u As n Al a I l e Al a As p Al a I l e Ly s Ser Gl y Hi s
                               245                       250                      255
              Leu Al a Gl y Ty r Al a Al a As p Val Phe Gl u Met Gl u As p Tr p Al a I l e
                            260                     265                    270
              Al a As n Ar g Pr o Ly s Ser I l e As n Gl n Thr Leu Leu Thr As p I l e Ly s
                        275                      280                   285
              Hi s Thr Phe Phe Thr Pr o Hi s Leu Gl y Ser Al a I l e As n As p Val Ar g
                   290                  295                    300
              Ar g Gl u I l e Al a I l e Gl u Al a Al a Ly s As n I l e I l e Gl u Val Phe Ser
              305                        310                      315                      320
                                                                 Page 6

                                                              5293937_1
<removed-date>
              As p As n Ar g Pr o Ly s Ser Al a I l e As n As n I l e I l e
                                  325                      330
              <210>    5
              <211>    335
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    Gal l i onel l a f er r ugi nea
              <400>    5
<removed-apn>
              Met Ly s Pr o Ly s I l e Val I l e Thr Ser Tr p Val Hi s Pr o Gl n Thr Leu
              1                  5                       10                      15
              As p Met Leu Ar g Pr o Hi s Cy s As p Val Val Al a As n Gl u Thr Ar g Gl u
                           20                       25                     30
              Ar g Leu Ser Ar g Gl u Gl u I l e I l e Ly s Ar g Cy s Ser As p Al a Val Al a
                       35                       40                       45
              Val Met Thr Phe Met Pr o As p Ser I l e As p As p Al a Phe Leu Al a Gl u
                  50                   55                       60
              Cy s Pr o Gl n Leu Ar g Leu Val Al a Cy s Al a Leu Ly s Gl y Ty r As p As n
              65                      70                     75                      80
              Ty r As p Val Al a Al a Cy s Thr Ar g Ar g Gl y Val Ar g I l e Thr As n Val
                                 85                      90                      95
              Pr o As p Leu Leu Thr I l e Pr o Thr Al a Gl u Leu Thr Val Gl y Leu Leu
                            100                    105                   110
              I l e Gl y Leu Thr Ar g Ly s Val Leu Gl n Gl y As p Ar g Phe Val Ar g Ser
                         115                   120                     125
              Gl y Gl n Phe Thr Gl y Tr p Ar g Pr o Met Leu Ty r Gl y Al a Gl y Leu Thr
                   130                    135                    140
              Gl y Ar g Thr Leu Gl y I l e I l e Gl y Met Gl y Al a Val Gl y Ar g Al a I l e
              145                    150                       155                     160
              Al a Al a Ar g Leu Gl n Gl y Ty r Gl u Met Gl u Leu Leu Ty r Thr As p Pr o
                                 165                     170                   175
              Gl n Pr o Leu Pr o Pr o Gl u Leu Gl u Al a Ar g Leu Gl y Leu Ar g Ly s Val
                            180                     185                    190
              Gl y Leu Val Gl n Leu Leu Al a Gl u Ser As p Ty r Val Val Pr o Met Val
                       195                   200                    205
                                                          Page 7

                                                                5293937_1
<removed-date>
              Pr o Ty r Thr Gl n As p Thr Leu Hi s Met I l e As n Al a Al a Ser Leu Ser
                   210                    215                     220
              I l e Met Ly s Pr o Gl y Al a Ty r Leu Val As n Thr Cy s Ar g Gl y Ser Val
              225                      230                    235                    240
              Val As p Gl u Ly s Al a Val Al a As p Al a Leu As p Ser Gl y Ly s Leu Al a
                                 245                     250                    255
<removed-apn>
              Gl y Ty r Al a Al a As p Val Phe Gl u Leu Gl u Gl u Tr p Met Ar g Pr o As p
                             260                    265                    270
              Ar g Pr o Gl u Ser I l e Ser Gl u Ar g Leu Leu Ser As n Thr Gl u Leu Thr
                        275                     280                   285
              Leu Phe Thr Pr o Hi s I l e Gl y Ser Al a Val As p Thr Val Ar g Leu Al a
                  290                     295                    300
              I l e Gl u Met Gl u Al a Al a Thr As n I l e Leu Gl n Val Leu Ly s Gl y Gl n
              305                      310                     315                    320
              I l e Pr o Gl n Gl y Al a I l e As n Hi s Pr o Leu As p Ly s Val Al a Val
                                   325                       330                    335
              <210>   6
              <211>   336
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   J ant hi nobac t er i um s p. Mar s ei l l e
              <400>   6
              Met Ly s Pr o Ly s I l e Val I l e Thr Hi s Tr p Val Hi s Pr o Gl u I l e Val
              1                  5                        10                      15
              Gl u Met Leu Ser Ser Val Al a Gl u Val Val Thr As n As p Thr Leu Gl u
                           20                    25                    30
              Thr Leu Pr o Ar g Gl u Gl u Leu Leu Ar g Ar g Ser Ly s As p Al a As p Al a
                      35                      40                     45
              Val Met Al a Phe Met Pr o As p Ser Val As p As p Ser Phe Leu Al a Al a
                  50                    55                     60
              Cy s Pr o Ly s Leu Ly s I l e Val Phe Al a Al a Leu Ly s Gl y Ty r As p As n
              65                      70                      75                      80
              Phe As p Val As p Al a Cy s Thr Ly s Ar g Gl y Val Tr p Phe Gl y I l e Val
                                85                      90                     95
                                                            Page 8

                                                            5293937_1
<removed-date>
              Pr o As p Leu Leu Thr Val Pr o Thr Al a Gl u Leu Thr Val Gl y Leu Leu
                            100                  105                   110
              Leu Gl y Leu Thr Ar g Hi s Val Met Al a Gl y As p As p Hi s Val Ar g Ser
                       115                   120                     125
              Gl y Thr Phe Hi s Gl y Tr p Ar g Pr o Ly s Leu Ty r Gl y Al a Gl y Leu Al a
                   130                    135                     140
<removed-apn>
              Gl y Ser Thr I l e Gl y I l e I l e Gl y Met Gl y Ar g Val Gl y Ly s Al a I l e
              145                     150                       155                     160
              Al a Ly s Ar g Leu Ser Gl y Phe Gl u Met As n Al a Val Ty r Cy s As p Ser
                                 165                   170                     175
              Val Pr o Leu As n Pr o Val As p Gl u Gl n Al a Tr p As n Al a Ar g Gl n Val
                           180                     185                      190
              Ser Phe As p Gl u Leu Leu Thr Cy s Ser As p Phe Val Val Pr o Met Leu
                      195                   200                   205
              Pr o Met Thr Ser As p Thr Phe Hi s Leu I l e As p Al a Hi s Al a I l e Ser
                   210                  215                     220
              Ly s Met Ar g Ar g Gl y Ser Ty r Leu Leu As n Thr Ser Ar g Gl y Ser Val
              225                     230                   235                   240
              Val As p Gl u As n Al a Val Val Gl u Al a Leu As n Gl n Gl y Hi s Leu Al a
                                 245                    250                     255
              Gl y Ty r Al a Al a As p Val Phe Gl u Met Gl u Gl u Tr p Al a Ar g Pr o As p
                             260                    265                     270
              Ar g Pr o Leu Thr Val Pr o Gl n Al a Leu Leu As n As n Ar g Thr Gl n Thr
                        275                   280                    285
              Leu Phe Thr Pr o Hi s Val Gl y Ser Gl y Val Ly s Ly s Val Ar g Leu Gl u
                  290                   295                    300
              I l e Gl u Ar g Ty r Ser Al a Hi s Ser I l e Leu Gl n Al a Leu Al a Gl y Gl n
              305                      310                     315                     320
              Ar g Pr o As p Gl y Al a Leu As n Gl u Pr o Leu Ly s Al a Ser Val Al a Al a
                                  325                     330                   335
              <210>   7
                                                              Page 9

                                                          5293937_1
<removed-date>
              <211>   336
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Kl ebs i el l a pneumoni ae
              <400>   7
              Met Leu Pr o Ly s Leu Val I l e Thr Hi s Ar g Val Hi s As p Gl u I l e Leu
              1                 5                      10                      15
              Gl n Leu Leu Al a Pr o Hi s Cy s Gl u Leu Val Thr As n Gl n Thr As p Ser
                           20                       25                    30
<removed-apn>
              Thr Leu Thr Ar g Gl u Gl u I l e Leu Ar g Ar g Cy s Ar g As p Al a Gl n Al a
                      35                       40                      45
              Met Met Al a Phe Met Pr o As p Ar g Val As p Al a As p Phe Leu Gl n Al a
                  50                    55                      60
              Cy s Pr o Gl u Leu Ar g Val Val Gl y Cy s Al a Leu Ly s Gl y Phe As p As n
              65                      70                     75                     80
              Phe As p Val As p Al a Cy s Thr Al a Ar g Gl y Val Tr p Leu Thr Phe Val
                                85                      90                    95
              Pr o As p Leu Leu Thr Val Pr o Thr Al a Gl u Leu Al a I l e Gl y Leu Al a
                            100                  105                      110
              Val Gl y Leu Gl y Ar g Hi s Leu Ar g Al a Al a As p Al a Phe Val Ar g Ser
                       115                    120                      125
              Gl y Gl u Phe Gl n Gl y Tr p Gl n Pr o Gl n Phe Ty r Gl y Thr Gl y Leu As p
                   130                     135                     140
              As n Al a Thr Val Gl y I l e Leu Gl y Met Gl y Al a I l e Gl y Leu Al a Met
              145                    150                     155                      160
              Al a Gl u Ar g Leu Gl n Gl y Tr p Gl y Al a Thr Leu Gl n Ty r Hi s Gl u Al a
                                 165                      170                    175
              Ly s Al a Leu As p Thr Gl n Thr Gl u Gl n Ar g Leu Gl y Leu Ar g Gl n Val
                            180                    185                    190
              Al a Cy s Ser Gl u Leu Phe Al a Ser Ser As p Phe I l e Leu Leu Al a Leu
                        195                   200                    205
              Pr o Leu As n Al a As p Thr Gl n Hi s Leu Val As n Al a Gl u Leu Leu Al a
                   210                    215                    220
              Leu Val Ar g Pr o Gl y Al a Leu Leu Val As n Pr o Cy s Ar g Gl y Ser Val
                                                         Page 10

                                                            5293937_1
<removed-date>
              225                       230                    235                       240
              Val As p Gl u Al a Al a Val Leu Al a Al a Leu Gl u Ar g Gl y Gl n Leu Gl y
                                 245                    250                     255
              Gl y Ty r Al a Al a As p Val Phe Gl u Met Gl u As p Tr p Al a Ar g Al a As p
                             260                    265                     270
              Ar g Pr o Ar g Leu I l e As p Pr o Al a Leu Leu Al a Hi s Pr o As n Thr Leu
<removed-apn>
                        275                      280                    285
              Phe Thr Pr o Hi s I l e Gl y Ser Al a Val Ar g Al a Val Ar g Leu Gl u I l e
                  290                      295                    300
              Gl u Ar g Cy s Al a Al a Gl n As n I l e I l e Gl n Val Leu Al a Gl y Al a Ar g
              305                      310                        315                    320
              Pr o I l e As n Al a Al a As n Ar g Leu Pr o Ly s Al a Gl u Pr o Al a Al a Cy s
                                   325                     330                      335
              <210>   8
              <211>   336
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mar i nobac t er al gi c ol a
              <400>   8
              Met Ly s Pr o Ar g Val Val I l e Thr Hi s Ar g Val Hi s As p Ser I l e Leu
              1                  5                      10                     15
              Al a Ser Leu Gl u Pr o Hi s Cy s Gl u Leu I l e Thr As n Gl n Ser Al a Val
                           20                       25                      30
              Thr Leu Pr o Pr o As p Ser Val Ar g Al a Ar g Al a Al a Thr Al a As p Al a
                      35                     40                       45
              Met Met Al a Phe Met Pr o As p Ar g Val Ser Gl u Gl u Phe Leu Val Al a
                  50                    55                     60
              Cy s Pr o As p Leu Ly s Val I l e Gl y Al a Al a Leu Ly s Gl y Phe As p As n
              65                      70                       75                     80
              Phe As p Val As p Al a Cy s Thr Ar g Hi s Gl y Val Tr p Leu Thr Phe Val
                                85                      90                    95
              Pr o As p Leu Leu Thr Val Pr o Thr Al a Gl u Leu Thr Val Gl y Leu Thr
                            100                  105                   110
              I l e Gl y Leu I l e Ar g Gl n I l e Ar g Pr o Al a As p Gl n Phe Val Ar g Ser
                                                                Page 11

                                                              5293937_1
<removed-date>
                          115                     120                     125
              Gl y Gl u Phe Gl n Gl y Tr p Gl n Pr o Gl n Phe Ty r Gl y Leu Gl y I l e Gl u
                   130                     135                     140
              Gl y Ser Thr I l e Gl y I l e Val Gl y Met Gl y Al a I l e Gl y Ly s Al a Val
              145                     150                     155                       160
              Al a Thr Ar g Leu Gl n Gl y Tr p Gl y Al a Ar g Val Leu Ty r Ser Gl n Pr o
<removed-apn>
                                165                      170                   175
              Gl u Ser Leu Pr o Al a Al a Gl u Gl u Gl y Al a Leu Gl y Leu Ser Ar g Ser
                           180                      185                    190
              Gl u Leu As p As p Leu Leu Al a Gl u Ser As p I l e Val I l e Leu Al a Leu
                       195                    200                     205
              Al a Leu As n Gl u Hi s Thr Leu Hi s Thr Leu As n Al a As p Ar g Leu Ar g
                   210                    215                   220
              Gl n Met Ly s Ar g Gl y Ser Phe Leu I l e As n Pr o Cy s Ar g Gl y Ser Val
              225                     230                    235                     240
              Val As p Gl u Al a Al a Val Leu Gl n Ser Leu Thr Ty r Gl y Hi s Leu Ser
                                 245                   250                    255
              Gl y Ty r Al a Al a As p Val Phe Gl u Met Gl u As p Tr p Al a Ar g Pr o As p
                             260                    265                     270
              Ar g Pr o Gl n Ar g I l e As p Pr o Al a Leu Leu Al a Hi s Pr o As n Thr Leu
                        275                       280                    285
              Phe Thr Al a Hi s Thr Gl y Ser Al a Val Ar g As p Val Ar g Phe Al a I l e
                  290                    295                    300
              Gl u Leu Ar g Al a Al a As p As n I l e Leu Gl n Al a Leu Ar g Gl y Hi s Gl n
              305                     310                      315                     320
              Pr o Gl n As p Al a Val As n Ser Pr o Leu Gl u Pr o Ly s Gl y Thr Val Cy s
                                  325                   330                     335
              <210>   9
              <211>   339
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Met hy l obac t er i um ex t or quens
              <400>   9
              Met Ar g Phe Ly s Val Val Val Thr As n Pr o Val Phe Pr o Gl u Thr Ar g
                                                        Page 12

                                                           5293937_1
<removed-date>
              1                  5                        10                       15
              Gl u I l e Leu Gl u Gl y Leu Cy s As p Val As p I l e As n Pr o Gl y Pr o Gl u
                             20                      25                       30
              Pr o Tr p Pr o Al a Al a Gl u Val Ar g Al a Ar g Cy s Ser As p Al a As p Al a
                        35                      40                      45
              Leu Leu Al a Phe Met Thr As p Cy s Val As p Al a Gl y Phe Leu Gl u Al a
<removed-apn>
                  50                   55                      60
              Cy s Pr o Ar g Leu Ly s Val Val Al a Cy s Al a Leu Ly s Gl y Tr p As p As n
              65                      70                     75                      80
              Phe As p Val Gl u Al a Cy s Thr Ar g Ser Gl y I l e Tr p Leu Thr Al a Val
                                85                     90                      95
              Pr o As p Leu Leu Thr Gl u Pr o Thr Al a Gl u Leu Al a Val Gl y Leu Al a
                            100                   105                    110
              I l e Gl y Leu Cy s Ar g As n Val Val Al a Gl y As p Ar g Al a Val Ar g Al a
                         115                    120                     125
              Gl y Phe As p Gl y Tr p Ar g Pr o Ar g Leu Ty r Gl y Ser Gl y Leu Ty r Gl y
                   130                     135                     140
              Ser Val Val Gl y Val Al a Gl y Met Gl y Ly s Val Gl y Ar g Al a I l e Thr
              145                  150                     155                      160
              Ar g Ar g Leu Ly s Gl y Phe Gl y Al a Ar g Gl u Leu Leu Ty r Phe As p Gl u
                                 165                     170                   175
              Gl n Al a Leu Pr o Al a Ser Al a Gl u Al a Gl u Leu Gl y Al a Cy s Ar g Val
                            180                     185                     190
              Ser Tr p As p Thr Leu Val Gl y Ar g Ser As p Val Leu I l e Leu Al a Leu
                       195                   200                   205
              Pr o Leu Thr Pr o As p Thr Ar g Hi s Met Leu As p Al a Al a Al a Leu Al a
                   210                   215                    220
              Al a Al a Ser Pr o Gl y Leu Ar g I l e Val As n Al a Gl y Ar g Gl y Ser Val
              225                     230                     235                     240
              Val As p Gl u Al a Al a Val Al a Gl u Al a Leu Al a Gl u Gl y Ar g Leu Gl y
                                 245                     250                     255
                                                             Page 13

                                                         5293937_1
<removed-date>
              Gl y Ty r Al a Al a As p Val Phe Gl u Met Gl u As p Tr p Al a Leu As p As p
                             260                    265                     270
              Ar g Pr o Ar g Ar g I l e Al a Pr o Gl y Leu Leu Thr Val Gl u As p Ar g Thr
                        275                       280                  285
              Leu Phe Thr Pr o Hi s Leu Gl y Ser Gl y Val Val As p Thr Ar g Ar g Ar g
                  290                   295                   300
<removed-apn>
              I l e Gl u Al a Al a Al a Al a Hi s As n Leu Leu As p Al a Leu Ly s Gl y Leu
              305                       310                    315                     320
              Val Pr o Al a As p Ser I l e As n Hi s Pr o Gl u Ser Leu Ar g Gl y Phe As p
                                 325                      330                    335
              Gl y Al a As n
              <210>   10
              <211>   332
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Nos t oc s p. PCC 7120
              <400>   10
              Met Ly s Pr o Ly s Val Val I l e Thr As n Tr p Val Hi s Pr o Gl u Val I l e
              1                  5                      10                      15
              Gl u Leu Leu Ly s Pr o Ser Cy s Gl u Val I l e Al a As n Pr o Ser Ly s Gl u
                           20                      25                       30
              Al a Leu Ser Ar g Gl u Gl u I l e Leu Gl n Ar g Al a Ly s As p Al a Gl u Al a
                       35                       40                      45
              Leu Met Val Phe Met Pr o As p Thr I l e As p Gl u Al a Phe Leu Ar g Gl u
                  50                   55                       60
              Cy s Pr o Ly s Leu Ly s I l e I l e Al a Al a Al a Leu Ly s Gl y Ty r As p As n
              65                      70                         75                      80
              Phe As p Val Al a Al a Cy s Thr Hi s Ar g Gl y I l e Tr p Phe Thr I l e Val
                                85                      90                      95
              Pr o Ser Leu Leu Ser Al a Pr o Thr Al a Gl u I l e Thr I l e Gl y Leu Leu
                           100                   105                       110
              I l e Gl y Leu Gl y Ar g Gl n Met Leu Gl u Gl y As p Ar g Phe I l e Ar g Thr
                         115                    120                     125
                                                             Page 14

                                                          5293937_1
<removed-date>
              Gl y Ly s Phe Thr Gl y Tr p Ar g Pr o Gl n Phe Ty r Ser Leu Gl y Leu Al a
                   130                    135                     140
              As n Ar g Thr Leu Gl y I l e Val Gl y Met Gl y Al a Leu Gl y Ly s Al a I l e
              145                    150                     155                     160
              Al a Gl y Ar g Leu Al a Gl y Phe Gl u Met Gl n Leu Leu Ty r Ser As p Pr o
                                 165                    170                   175
<removed-apn>
              Val Al a Leu Pr o Pr o Gl u Gl n Gl u Al a Thr Gl y As n I l e Ser Ar g Val
                           180                      185                      190
              Pr o Phe Gl u Thr Leu I l e Gl u Ser Ser As p Phe Val Val Leu Val Val
                       195                     200                  205
              Pr o Leu Gl n Pr o Al a Thr Leu Hi s Leu I l e As n Al a As n Thr Leu Al a
                   210                    215                     220
              Ly s Met Ly s Pr o Gl y Ser Phe Leu I l e As n Pr o Cy s Ar g Gl y Ser Val
              225                     230                    235                     240
              Val As p Gl u Gl n Al a Val Cy s Ly s Al a Leu Gl u Ser Gl y Hi s Leu Al a
                                 245                     250                    255
              Gl y Ty r Al a Al a As p Val Phe Gl u Met Gl u As p Tr p Ty r Ar g Ser As p
                             260                    265                     270
              Ar g Pr o Hi s As n I l e Pr o Gl n Pr o Leu Leu Gl u As n Thr Ly s Gl n Thr
                        275                       280                    285
              Phe Phe Thr Pr o Hi s I l e Gl y Ser Al a Val As p Gl u Leu Ar g Hi s As n
                  290                     295                    300
              I l e Al a Leu Gl u Al a Al a Gl n As n I l e Leu Gl n Al a Leu Gl n Gl y Gl n
              305                      310                      315                     320
              Ly s Pr o Gl n Gl y Al a Val As n Ty r Leu Ar g Gl u Ser
                                  325                    330
              <210>   11
              <211>   331
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ox al obac t er f or mi genes
              <400>   11
              Met As n Ly s Gl n Ly s Val Val Leu Thr Hi s Tr p Val Hi s Pr o Gl u I l e
              1                  5                    10                      15
                                                             Page 15

                                                        5293937_1
<removed-date>
              Val Gl u Met Leu Gl n Gl u Ly s Thr As p Val Val Al a As n Leu Ser Ar g
                           20                     25                     30
              Ly s Thr Phe Thr Ar g As p Gl u Leu Leu Gl u Ar g Al a Al a Al a Al a As p
                       35                     40                     45
              Al a Leu Met Al a Phe Met Pr o As p Cy s I l e As p Gl u As p Phe Leu Ly s
                   50                   55                        60
<removed-apn>
              Al a Cy s Pr o Ly s Leu Ly s Val I l e Gl y Al a Al a Leu Ly s Gl y Ty r As p
              65                      70                       75                      80
              As n Phe As p Val Ly s Al a Cy s Thr Gl u Ar g Gl y Val Tr p Leu Thr I l e
                                85                      90                     95
              Al a Pr o As p Leu Leu Thr I l e Pr o Thr Al a Gl u Leu Thr Val Gl y Leu
                             100                    105                   110
              Val Leu Al a I l e Thr Ar g As n Met Leu Gl u Gl y As p Ar g Hi s I l e Ar g
                      115                      120                    125
              Ser Gl y Gl n Phe As n Gl y Tr p Ar g Pr o Gl u Leu Ty r Gl y Leu Gl y Leu
                  130                     135                     140
              Hi s Ly s Ar g Thr Al a Gl y I l e I l e Gl y Met Gl y Phe Val Gl y Ly s Al a
              145                     150                       155                    160
              Val Al a Gl u Ar g Leu Ly s Gl y Phe Gl y Met As p I l e Leu Ty r Al a As p
                                 165                    170                     175
              Gl n Ser Pr o Leu Ser Gl n Gl u Gl u Gl u Ar g Gl u Leu Gl y Leu Thr Ar g
                            180                    185                     190
              Thr Gl y Leu Pr o Gl n Leu Met Hi s Ser Ser As p Val Val I l e Pr o Leu
                       195                   200                   205
              Leu Pr o Leu Thr Gl u Gl n Thr Phe Hi s Leu Phe As p Ly s As p I l e Leu
                  210                    215                  220
              Gl y Gl n Met Ly s Gl n Gl y Ser Ty r Leu Val As n Al a Cy s Ar g Gl y Ser
              225                     230                   235                      240
              Val Val As p Gl u Ly s Al a Val Val Hi s Ser Leu Ly s Thr Gl y Gl n Leu
                                245                    250                   255
              Al a Gl y Ty r Al a Al a As p Val Phe Gl u Met Gl u As p Tr p I l e Ar g Ser
                             260                    265                     270
                                                            Page 16

                                                             5293937_1
<removed-date>
              As p Ar g Pr o Ar g Gl u I l e Pr o Gl n Gl u Leu Leu As p As n Thr Al a Gl n
                        275                       280                    285
              Thr Phe Phe Thr Pr o Hi s Leu Gl y Ser Al a Val As p Gl u I l e Ar g I l e
                  290                   295                   300
              Gl u I l e Gl u Ar g Ty r Cy s Al a Thr Ser I l e Leu Gl n Al a Leu Al a Gl y
              305                       310                     315                    320
<removed-apn>
              As p I l e Pr o As p Gl y Ar g Val As n As p I l e Ar g
                                   325                     330
              <210>   12
              <211>   328
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   St r ept omy c es s v i c eus
              <400>   12
              Met Val Thr Hi s Tr p I l e Hi s Pr o Gl u Val Val As p Ty r Leu Ar g Ar g
              1                5                         10                    15
              Phe Cy s As p Pr o Val Val Pr o Val Gl u Thr Gl u Val Leu Gl y Ar g Ar g
                            20                    25                    30
              Gl n Cy s Leu Gl u Leu Al a Al a As p Al a As p Al a Leu I l e Met Cy s Met
                        35                     40                      45
              Al a As p Ar g Val As p As p As p Phe Leu Al a Gl n Cy s Pr o Ar g Leu Ar g
                   50                      55                     60
              Val I l e Ser Thr Val Val Ly s Gl y Ty r As p As n Phe As p Al a Gl u Al a
              65                    70                      75                      80
              Cy s Al a Ar g Ar g Gl y Val Tr p Leu Thr Val Leu Pr o As p Leu Leu Thr
                                  85                    90                    95
              Al a Pr o Thr Al a Gl u Leu Al a Val Thr Leu Al a Val Al a Leu Gl y Ar g
                            100                    105                   110
              Ar g I l e Ar g Gl u Gl y As p Al a Leu Met Ar g Ser Gl y Ar g Ty r As p Gl y
                         115                      120                   125
              Tr p Ar g Pr o Val Leu Ty r Gl y Thr Gl y Leu Ty r Ar g Ser Ar g Val Gl y
                   130                    135                    140
              Val Val Gl y Met Gl y Ar g Leu Gl y Ar g Al a Val Al a Ar g Ar g Leu Ser
              145                   150                     155                    160
                                                              Page 17

                                                                 5293937_1
<removed-date>
              Gl y Phe Gl u Pr o Ser Gl u Val Leu Ty r Ty r As p Ly s Gl n Pr o Leu Gl y
                                 165                   170                      175
              Al a Ser Gl u Gl u Ar g Ar g Leu Gl y Val Ar g Al a Al a Gl y Leu Gl u Gl u
                            180                     185                     190
              Leu Met Gl y Ar g Cy s Gl n Val Val Leu Ser Leu Leu Pr o Leu Al a Met
                      195                     200                 205
<removed-apn>
              As p Thr Ar g Hi s Leu I l e Gl y Ser As p Al a I l e Al a Al a Al a Ar g Pr o
                   210                     215                      220
              Gl y Gl n Leu Leu Val As n Val Gl y Ar g Gl y Ser Val Val As p Gl u As p
              225                   230                     235                   240
              Al a Val Al a Al a Al a Leu As p Cy s Gl y Pr o Leu Gl y Gl y Ty r Al a Al a
                                 245                     250                     255
              As p Val Phe Gl y Cy s Gl u As p Leu Thr Al a Pr o Gl y Hi s Leu Ar g Gl u
                           260                     265                     270
              Val Pr o Ar g Ar g Leu Leu Thr Hi s Pr o Ar g Thr Leu Leu Thr Pr o Hi s
                       275                   280                    285
              Leu Gl y Ser Al a Val As p Val I l e Ar g Ar g As p Met Gl u I l e Al a Al a
                  290                    295                      300
              Al a Hi s Gl n Val Gl u Gl n Al a Leu Ser Gl y Ar g Val Pr o As p Hi s Gl u
              305                     310                    315                     320
              Val Thr Al a Gl y Leu Leu Ar g Gl u
                                325
              <210>   13
              <211>   336
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Thi oal k al i v i br i o s p. HL- EbGR7
              <400>   13
              Met Leu Pr o Ly s Leu Val I l e Thr Hi s Ar g Val Hi s As p Gl u I l e Leu
              1                 5                      10                      15
              Gl n Leu Leu Al a Pr o Hi s Cy s Gl u Leu Met Thr As n Gl n Thr As p Ser
                           20                       25                    30
              Thr Leu Pr o Ar g Gl u Gl u I l e Leu Ar g Ar g Cy s Ar g As p Al a Gl n Al a
                      35                        40                      45
                                                                  Page 18

                                                          5293937_1
<removed-date>
              Met Met Al a Phe Met Pr o As p Ar g Val As p Al a As p Phe Leu Gl n Al a
                  50                    55                      60
              Cy s Pr o Gl u Leu Ar g Val Val Gl y Cy s Al a Leu Ly s Gl y Phe As p As n
              65                      70                     75                     80
              Phe As p Val As p Al a Cy s Thr Al a Ar g Gl y Val Tr p Leu Thr Phe Val
                                85                      90                    95
<removed-apn>
              Pr o As p Leu Leu Thr Val Pr o Thr Al a Gl u Leu Al a I l e Gl y Leu Al a
                            100                  105                      110
              Val Gl y Leu Gl y Ar g Hi s Leu Ar g Al a Al a As p Al a Phe Val Ar g Ser
                       115                    120                      125
              Gl y Gl u Phe Gl n Gl y Tr p Gl n Pr o Gl n Phe Ty r Gl y Thr Gl y Leu As p
                   130                     135                     140
              As n Al a Thr Val Gl y I l e Leu Gl y Met Gl y Al a I l e Gl y Leu Al a Met
              145                    150                     155                      160
              Al a As p Ar g Leu Gl n Gl y Tr p Gl y Al a Thr Leu Gl n Ty r Hi s Gl u Al a
                                 165                      170                    175
              Ly s Al a Leu As p Thr Gl n Thr Gl u Gl n Ar g Leu Gl y Leu Ar g Ar g Val
                            180                    185                    190
              Al a Cy s Ser Gl u Leu Phe Al a Ser Ser As p Phe I l e Leu Leu Al a Leu
                        195                   200                    205
              Pr o Leu As n Al a As p Thr Gl n Hi s Leu Val As n Al a Gl u Leu Leu Al a
                   210                    215                    220
              Leu Val Ar g Pr o Gl y Al a Leu Leu Val As n Pr o Cy s Ar g Gl y Ser Val
              225                    230                   235                     240
              Val As p Gl u Al a Al a Val Leu Al a Al a Leu Gl u Ar g Gl y Gl n Leu Gl y
                                 245                    250                     255
              Gl y Ty r Al a Al a As p Val Phe Gl u Met Gl u As p Tr p Al a Ar g Al a As p
                             260                    265                     270
              Ar g Pr o Ar g Leu I l e As p Pr o Al a Leu Leu Thr Hi s Pr o As n Thr Leu
                        275                      280                   285
              Phe Thr Pr o Hi s I l e Gl y Ser Al a Val Ar g Al a Val Ar g Leu Gl u I l e
                  290                      295                    300
                                                           Page 19

                                                             5293937_1
<removed-date>
              Gl u Ar g Cy s Al a Al a Gl n As n I l e I l e Gl n Val Leu Al a Gl y Al a Ar g
              305                      310                        315                    320
              Pr o I l e As n Al a Al a As n Ar g Leu Pr o Ly s Al a Gl u Pr o Al a Al a Cy s
                                   325                     330                      335
              <210>    14
              <211>    331
<removed-apn>
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    Xant hobac t er f l av us
              <400>    14
              Met Al a Ar g Ly s Thr I l e Val Thr As n Tr p Val Hi s Pr o Gl u Val Leu
              1                  5                      10                      15
              As p Leu Leu Ser Thr Ar g Gl y Pr o Al a Gl u Al a As n Thr Thr Ar g Gl u
                           20                     25                      30
              Pr o Tr p Pr o Ar g As p Gl u I l e I l e Ar g Ar g Al a Hi s Gl y Al a As p Al a
                        35                        40                        45
              Met Leu Al a Phe Met Thr As p Hi s Val As p Al a Al a Phe Leu As p Al a
                  50                   55                      60
              Cy s Pr o Gl u Leu Ly s I l e Val Al a Cy s Al a Leu Ly s Gl y Al a As p As n
              65                      70                       75                      80
              Phe As p Met Gl u Al a Cy s Ar g Al a Ar g Ly s Val Al a Val Thr I l e Val
                                85                       90                    95
              Pr o As p Leu Leu Thr Al a Pr o Thr Al a Gl u Leu Al a Val Gl y Leu Met
                            100                   105                    110
              I l e Thr Leu Gl y Ar g As n Leu Leu Al a Gl y As p Ar g Leu I l e Ar g Gl u
                        115                    120                     125
              Ar g Pr o Phe Al a Gl y Tr p Ar g Pr o Val Leu Ty r Gl y Thr Gl y Leu As p
                   130                     135                    140
              Gl y Al a Gl u Val Gl y I l e Val Gl y Met Gl y Al a Val Gl y Gl n Al a I l e
              145                     150                     155                     160
              Al a Hi s Ar g Leu Ar g Pr o Phe Ar g Cy s Ar g Leu Ser Ty r Cy s As p Al a
                                 165                     170                    175
              Ar g Pr o Leu Ser Pr o Al a Al a Gl u As p Al a Gl n Gl y Leu Leu Ar g Ar g
                            180                     185                     190
                                                            Page 20

                                                              5293937_1
<removed-date>
              As p Leu Al a As p Leu Val Al a Ar g Ser As p Ty r Leu Val Leu Al a Leu
                       195                    200                    205
              Pr o Leu Thr Pr o Al a Ser Ar g Hi s Leu I l e As p Al a Al a Al a Leu Al a
                   210                   215                      220
              Gl y Met Ly s Pr o Gl y Al a Leu Leu I l e As n Pr o Al a Ar g Gl y Ser Leu
              225                     230                     235                     240
<removed-apn>
              Val As p Gl u Al a Al a Val Al a As p Al a Leu Gl u Al a Gl y Hi s Leu Gl y
                                 245                     250                     255
              Gl y Ty r Al a Al a As p Val Phe Gl u Thr Gl u As p Tr p Al a Ar g Pr o As p
                             260                    265                     270
              Ar g Pr o Al a Al a I l e Gl u Al a Ar g Leu Leu Al a Hi s Pr o Ar g Thr Val
                        275                       280                    285
              Leu Thr Pr o Hi s I l e Gl y Ser Al a Val As p Ser Val Ar g Ar g As p I l e
                  290                      295                   300
              Al a Leu Al a Al a Al a Ar g As p I l e Leu Ar g Hi s Leu As p Gl y Leu Gl n
              305                     310                      315                    320
              Gl n As p Pr o Pr o Ser Ar g As p Ar g Ser Al a Al a
                                  325                    330
              <210>   15
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Cons ens us s equenc e f or NAD- bi ndi ng mot i f
              <400>   15
              Val Gl y I l e Leu Gl y Met Gl y Al a I l e Gl y
              1                  5                        10
              <210>   16
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Cons ens us s i gnat ur e s equenc e f or t he D- i s omer s pec i f i c
                      2- hy dr ox y ac i d f ami l y
              <220>
                                                               Page 21

                                                              5293937_1
<removed-date>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 1) . . ( 1)
              <223>   Xaa pr es ent s Ar g or Ly s
              <400>   16
              Xaa Pr o Gl y Al a Leu Leu Val As n Pr o Cy s Ar g Gl y Ser Val Val As p
              1                  5                     10                     15
              <210>   17
              <211>   6
<removed-apn>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Cons er v ed s i gnat ur e s equenc e f or t he D- i s omer s pec i f i c
                      2- hy dr ox y ac i d f ami l y
              <400>   17
              Ar g Gl y Ser Val Val As p
              1                 5
              <210>   18
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Cons ens us mot i f t hat may enabl e hy dr ogenas es t o us e phos phi t e as
                      s ubs t r at e
              <400>   18
              Gl y Tr p Gl n Pr o Gl n Phe Ty r Gl y Thr Gl y Leu
              1                   5                      10
              <210>   19
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Cons ens us mot i f t hat may enabl e hy dr ogenas es t o us e phos phi t e as
                      s ubs t r at e
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 3) . . ( 3)
              <223>   Xaa r epr es ent s X1, whi c h i s Ar g, Gl n, Ly s , or Thr
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 5) . . ( 5)
              <223>   Xaa r epr es ent s X2, whi c h i s Al a, Val , Gl n, Ar g, Ly s , Hi s , or Gl u
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 6) . . ( 6)
                                                                Page 22

                                                           5293937_1
<removed-date>
              <223>   Xaa r epr es ent s X3, whi c h i s Leu or Phe
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 8) . . ( 8)
              <223>   Xaa r epr es ent s X4, whi c h i s Gl y , Phe, or Ser
              <220>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 9) . . ( 9)
              <223>   Xaa r epr es ent s X5, whi c h i s Thr , Ar g, Met , Leu, Al a, or Ser
<removed-apn>
              <400>   19
              Gl y Tr p Xaa Pr o Xaa Xaa Ty r Xaa Xaa Gl y Leu
              1                  5                    10
              <210>   20
              <211>   286
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ps eudomonas s t ut z er i
              <400>   20
              Met Phe Al a Gl u Gl n Gl n Ar g Gl u Ty r Leu As p Ly s Gl y Ty r Thr Ly s
              1                 5                        10                      15
              I l e Gl u Ser Phe Phe Ser Al a Gl u Gl u Val Al a Ly s I l e Leu Gl u As p
                             20                    25                       30
              Val Ly s Gl n I l e Gl u Leu Gl y Al a I l e Gl y Val Al a Ser As p As n Gl u
                       35                       40                       45
              Thr Ty r Gl n Phe Gl u Ly s Ly s As n Gl y Gl u Thr Thr Ly s Leu Leu Ar g
                  50                      55                      60
              Ar g Val Gl u As n Pr o Hi s Leu Ty r Phe As p Al a I l e As p Ser Leu Val
              65                      70                     75                      80
              Ar g Ser Gl u Ly s I l e Val As p Leu Leu Ar g Hi s Phe Leu Gl y Gl u As n
                                 85                     90                     95
              I l e Ar g Leu Hi s As n Ser Ly s I l e As n Phe Ly s Pr o Pr o Ser Gl y Al a
                             100                      105                     110
              Pr o Val Gl n Tr p Hi s Gl n As p Tr p Al a Phe Ty r Pr o Hi s Thr As n As p
                       115                      120                     125
              As p Phe Leu Thr Leu Gl y I l e Phe Leu As p Gl u Thr Ser Gl u Ly s As n
                   130                  135                     140
              Gl y Al a Met Al a Cy s Leu Pr o Gl y Ser Hi s Ly s Gl y Ly s Val Ty r As p
              145                     150                    155                     160
                                                           Page 23

                                                                      5293937_1
<removed-date>
              Hi s Ar g As n Val Gl u Thr Gl y Gl u Phe Cy s Hi s Al a I l e Ser Ar g Ser
                                 165                    170                      175
              As n Tr p As p Gl u Al a Leu As p Pr o Thr Gl u Gl y Gl u Leu Leu Thr Gl y
                             180                     185                    190
              Pr o Val Gl y Thr Val Thr Leu Hi s Hi s Val Ar g Thr Leu Hi s Gl y Ser
                       195                  200                    205
<removed-apn>
              Gl y Pr o As n Hi s Ser Thr I l e Ar g Ar g Ar g Phe Leu Leu I l e Gl y Ty r
                   210                    215                      220
              Al a Al a Al a As p Al a Tr p Pr o Leu Leu Gl y Cy s Gl y As n Ty r Gl y As p
              225                      230                    235                      240
              Ty r Gl u Ser Leu Met Val Ser Gl y Ar g Ser Thr Val Phe Pr o Ar g Met
                                245                   250                  255
              Val Gl u Leu Pr o Leu Thr Val Pr o Ty r Pr o Leu Ser Met Ty r Gl y As p
                           260                   265                   270
              Ar g I l e Phe Gl u Ser Gl n Ar g Al a Leu Thr Gl n Ly s Ty r Ty r
                         275                    280                    285
              <210>     21
              <211>     1011
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ps eudomonas s t ut z er i
              <400> 21
              at gc t gc c ga aac t c gt t at aac t c ac c ga gt ac ac gat g agat c c t gc a ac t gc t ggc g         60
              c c ac at t gc g agc t gat gac c aac c agac c gac agc ac gc t gac gc gc ga ggaaat t c t g             120
              c gc c gc t gt c gc gat gc t c a ggc gat gat g gc gt t c at gc c c gat c gggt c gat gc agac           180
              t t t c t t c aag c c t gc c c t ga gc t gc gt gt a gt c ggc t gc g c gc t c aaggg c t t c gac aat    240
              t t c gat gt gg ac gc c t gt ac t gc c c gc ggg gt c t ggc t ga c c t t c gt gc c t gat c t gt t g    300
              ac ggt c c c ga c t gc c gagc t ggc gat c gga c t ggc ggt gg ggc t ggggc g gc at c t gc gg            360
              gc agc agat g c gt t c gt c c g c t c t ggc gag t t c c agggc t ggc aac c ac a gt t c t ac ggc        420
              ac ggggc t gg at aac gc t ac ggt c ggc at c c t t ggc at gg gc gc c at c gg ac t ggc c at g           480
              gc t gat c gc t t gc agggat g gggc gc gac c c t gc agt ac c ac gaggc gaa ggc t c t ggat               540
              ac ac aaac c g agc aac ggc t c ggc c t gc gc c aggt ggc gt gc agc gaac t c t t c gc c agc             600
              t c ggac t t c a t c c t gc t ggc gc t t c c c t t g aat gc c gat a c c c agc at c t ggt c aac gc c   660
              gagc t gc t t g c c c t c gt ac g gc c gggc gc t c t gc t t gt aa ac c c c t gt c g t ggt t c ggt a   720
                                                                        Page 24

                                                                    5293937_1
<removed-date>
              gt ggat gaag c c gc c gt gc t c gc ggc gc t t gagc gaggc c agc t c ggc gg gt at gc ggc g         780
              gat gt at t c g aaat ggaaga c t gggc t c gc gc ggac c ggc c gc ggc t gat c gat c c t gc g        840
              c t gc t c gc gc at c c gaat ac gc t gt t c ac t c c gc ac at ag ggt c ggc agt gc gc gc ggt g    900
              c gc c t ggaga t t gaac gt t g t gc agc gc ag aac at c at c c aggt at t ggc aggt gc gc gc        960
              c c aat c aac g c t gc gaac c g t c t gc c c aag gc c gagc c t g c c gc at gt t g a             1011
<removed-apn>
              <210>     22
              <211>     56
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sens e pr i mer f or ampl i f i c at i on of pt x D c odi ng s equenc e of
                        Ps eudomonas s t ut z er i
              <400> 22
              ggggac aagt t t gt ac aaaa aagc aggc t a aat gc t gc c g aaac t c gt t a t aac t c                56
              <210>     23
              <211>     48
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Ant i s ens e pr i mer f or ampl i f i c at i on of pt x D c odi ng s equenc e of
                        Ps eudomonas s t ut z er i
              <400> 23
              ggggac c ac t t t gt ac aaga aagc t gggt a t c aac at gc g gc aggc t c                            48
                                                                      Page 25

