ABSTRACT
Nutritional formulas comprising long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (LC-PUFAs) are
provided, along with methods and devices for preparing and/or administering
nutritional formulas. In some embodiments, a percentage of the LC-PUFAs in the
nutritional formula are in the form of monoglycerides and/or free fatty acids. In some
embodiments, the nutritional formulas do not comprise added lipase. Also provided
are methods for providing nutrition to a subject, methods for improving fat absorption,
methods for improving cognitive ability, methods for preventing chronic lung disease,
and methods for reducing the length of time a patient requires total parenteral nutrition.
                                            1

   Methods, Compositions, and Devices for Supplying Dietary Fatty Acid Needs
[0001]      This application is a divisional application of Australian Application No.
2013221572, filed on 14 February 2013, and is related to International Patent
Application No. PCT/US2013/026063, filed on 14 February 2013 and claims priority
under 35 U.S.C. § 119 to United States Provisional Application No 61/600,207, filed on
17 February 2012 and United States Provisional Application No. 61/719,173, filed on
26 October 2012; each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
[0002]      Long-chain fatty acids are critical to human health and development. Long
chain fatty acids that are consumed in the diet are primarily in the form of triglycerides
(TGs), in which three long-chain fatty acids are bound to a glycerol molecule via ester
linkages. Absorption of long-chain triglycerides first requires the enzymatic action of
lipases, (e.g. pancreatic lipase), which digest triglycerides through hydrolysis, breaking
them down into monoglycerides and further into free fatty acids. Once available, these
monoglycerides and free fatty acids are absorbed by endothelial cells in the small
intestine, where they undergo reesterification, followed by transport to the liver and
ultimately to tissues in the body for various physiological purposes. D. Kasper et al.,
Harrison's Principles of internal Medicine   1 6 th Ed. (2004). While medium chain
triglycerides can be absorbed across the intestinal lumen, long-chain triglycerides
cannot, therefore, pancreatic lipase is essential for proper long-chain fatty acid
hydrolysis and absorption. C. Jensen et al., Am. J. Clin. Nutr. 43:745-751 (1986).
However, some people are unable to adequately breakdown long-chain triglycerides,
e.g., patients suffering from compromised pancreatic output, malabsorption or
pancreatic insufficiency, and as a result, may suffer from absorption of fatty acids that
is inadequate to maintain health.
                                               1

[0003]      Commercially available lipase supplements may be added to the diet to
improve hydrolysis of long-chain triglycerides. However, for a number of reasons,
lipase supplements will not necessarily solve the problem of poor fatty acid
absorption in all people suffering from reduced ability to break down long chain
triglycerides or otherwise in need of receiving elemental fatty acids. For example,
most commercial lipase supplements are made from animal pancreatic lipase,
which is known to have significantly reduced stability below pH 7. See, e.g.,
US2010/0239559; D. Kasper et al., Harrison's Principles of Internal Medicine 16'
Ed. (2004). By the time such lipases pass through the stomach, significant
amounts are likely to have been inactivated. Further, not all lipases work to the
same degree for hydrolysis of a given long-chain fatty acid, indicating lipase
specificity is an important consideration. R. Jensen et al., Lipids 18(3):239-252
 (1983). And in some populations with pancreatic insufficiency, nutritional formulas
 are tightly regulated, such as in pre-term infants or in patients in intensive care
 units, For these controlled populations, it may not be desirable or feasible to
 supplement already-approved formulas with additional ingredients. Moreover,
 although many fatty acid supplemented formulas may contain medium-chain
 triglycerides, there is a distinct medical benefit to dietary intake of long-chain fatty
 acids. Thus, there is a need for improved methods of enhancing hydrolysis of long
 chain triglycerides.
 [0004]      Proper hydrolysis of long-chain polyunsaturated triglycerides (TG
 LCPUFA) is particularly important for several reasons. Long-chain polyunsaturated
 fatty acids (LC-PUFAs) are critical for neural and retinal development. Moreover,
 some are considered "essential fatty acids," meaning that humans cannot
 synthesize them and must obtain them from dietary sources. The principal dietary
                                              2

source for n-3 LC-PUFAs docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) and eicosapentaenoic acid
(EPA) is their precursor, alpha-linolenic acid (ALA), which is an essential fatty acid.
Endogenous enzymes, however, are highly inefficient at converting ALA to DHA
and EPA. According to an official statement by the International Society for the
Study of Fatty Acids and Lipids (ISSFAL), the conversion of ALA to DHA is about
1% in infants and considerably lower in adults. Brenna et al., Prostaglandins
Leukot Essent Fatty Acids, 80(2-3):85-91 (2009). Thus, although DHA and EPA
are not essential fatty acids per se, dietary sources of DHA and EPA are important,
The principal dietary source for the n-6 LC-PUFA arachidonic acid (ARA or AA) is
 linoleic acid (LA), which is an essential fatty acid.
 [0005]      Embodiments of the invention solve these various problems by (i)
 providing lipases that are surprisingly more efficient than others at hydrolyzing
 certain long-chain triglycerides and esters, such as, e.g., long-chain
 polyunsaturated triglycerides and esters (ii) providing a nutritional formula, such as,
 e.g., a medical nutritional formula or an infant formula, comprising pre-hydrolyzed
 components (i.e., monoglycerides and/or free fatty acids) of LC-PUFA triglycerides,
 LC-PUFA fatty acid esters, and/or other long-chain triglycerides or long-chain fatty
 acid esters, , (iii) providing methods of producing such nutritional formula, including
 methods in which a formula containing LC-PUFA triglycerides, LC-PUFA fatty acid
 esters, and/or other long-chain triglycerides or long-chain fatty acid esters is
 temporarily exposed to lipase and (iv) providing devices designed to provide
  nutritional formulas comprising monoglycerides and/or free fatty acids, e.g., LC
  PUFA triglycerides and/or LC-PUFA fatty acid esters. In embodiments in which the
 formula is temporarily exposed to the lipase and the lipase is removed or separated
 from the formula prior to ingestion, the invention provides the advantage of
                                               3

ensuring breakdown of LC-PUFA triglycerides, LC-PUFA fatty acid esters, and/or
other long-chain triglycerides or long-chain fatty acid esters without requiring
ingestion of exogenous lipase.
[0006]     Accordingly, some embodiments of the invention provide a nutritional
formula. In some embodiments, the nutritional formula comprises LC-PUFAs. In
some embodiments, more than 2% of the total LC-PUFAs are in the form of
monoglycerides and free fatty acids, i.e. less than 98% of the total LC-PUFAs are in
triglyceride or ester form. In some embodiments, the LC-PUFA monoglycerides
and free fatty acids comprise more than 2.5%, more than 3%, more than 4%, more
than 5%, more than 6%, more than 7%, more than 8%, more than 10%, more than
12%, more than 15%, more than 20%, more than 25%, more than 30%, more than
40%, more than 50%, or more than 75% of the total LC-PUFAs in a nutritional
formula. In certain embodiments, the ratio of LC-PUFA monoglycerides and free
fatty acids to triglycerides and esters is at least 0.08:1, at least 0.09:1, at least
0,1:1, at least 0.25:1, at least 0.5:1, at least 1:1, at least 2:1, at least 3:1, at least
4:1, at least 5:1, at least 8:1, at least 10:1, or at least 20:1.
 [0007]     In certain embodiments, the nutritional formula is formulated for
 administration to premature infants. Other nutritional formulas encompassed by the
 invention are formulated for infants, toddlers, children, or adults who have a
 reduced ability to hydrolyze LC-PUFA triglycerides, LC-PUFA fatty acid esters,
 and/or other long-chain triglycerides or long-chain fatty acid esters, or who simply
 need additional elemental dietary LC-PUFAs and/or other long-chain fatty acids. In
 some embodiments, a nutritional formula of the invention is for a subject who is less
                                               4

than 1 year old. In some embodiments, the subject is between 1 and 4 years old.
 In some embodiments, the subject is between 1 and 6 years old.
[0008]       In certain embodiments, the nutritional formula of the invention is a
 medical nutritional formula, i.e., a formula that is formulated to be consumed or
 administered orally or enterally under medical supervision, such as those
 distributed through hospitals or pharmacies under a prescription. Typically, a
 medical nutritional formula is formulated for dietary management of a specific
 medical disorder, disease, or abnormal condition, for which there are distinctive
 nutritional requirements. A medical nutritional formula must have "Generally
 Recognized As Safe" status and comply with FDA regulations that pertain to
 labeling, product claims, and manufacturing.
 [0009]      In some embodiments, the nutritional formula does not contain added
 lipase. In other embodiments, the nutritional formula contains a lipase. In some
 embodiments, the lipase is selected from Chromobacterium viscosum,
 Pseudomonas fluorescens, Burcholderia cepacia, and Rhizopus oryzae lipases.
 [0010]       In some embodiments, the nutritional formula comprises EPA, DHA,
 ARA, LA, and/or ALA.
  [0011]      Because free polyunsaturated fatty acids are unstable and rapidly
  degrade, the invention also provides convenient and effective methods of preparing
 the nutritional formulas of the invention shortly before ingestion by a subject. In
  certain embodiments, the method comprises exposing a liquid nutritional
  composition comprising LC-PUFA triglycerides, LC-PUFA fatty acid esters, and/or
  other long-chain triglycerides and/or esters of long-chain fatty acids to a lipase prior
                                              5

to ingestion by a person in need of additional dietary LC-PUFAs and/or other long
chain fatty acids. In some embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is
exposed to lipase for at least one minute, at least 2 minutes, at least 3 minutes, at
 least 5 minutes, at least 8 minutes, at least 10 minutes, at least 15 minutes, at least
 30 minutes, at least 45 minutes, or at least 60 minutes prior to ingestion. In some
embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to lipase for no more
than one minute, no more than 2 minutes, no more than 3 minutes, no more than 5
 minutes, no more than 8 minutes, no more than 10 minutes, no more than 15
 minutes, no more than 30 minutes, no more than 45 minutes, or no more than 60
 minutes prior to ingestion. In some embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition
 is exposed to lipase for no more than 24 hours. In certain embodiments, the lipase
 is selected from Chromobacteriumviscosum, Pseudomonas fluorescens,
 Burcholderia cepacia, and Rhizopus oryzae lipases. In certain embodiments, the
 lipase may be removed from the nutritional formula prior to ingestion. In other
 embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition comprising LC-PUFA triglycerides,
 LC-PUFA fatty acid esters, and/or other long-chain triglycerides and/or esters is
 exposed to lipase immobilized to a solid support prior to ingestion. In some
 embodiments, the lipase is immobilized to the solid support by covalent binding,
  ionic binding, or crosslinking. In certain embodiments, the immobilized lipase is
 encapsulated within or attached to a permeable membrane.
  [0012]     Another aspect of the invention is a method of providing nutrition to a
  subject in need of dietary LC-PUFAs and/or other long-chain fatty acids, such as
  people suffering from a reduced ability to break down long-chain triglycerides or
  long-chain fatty acid esters in the gut, people suffering from pancreatic
  insufficiency, people suffering from malnutrition, and people who have been
                                              6

receiving total parenteral nutrition, by administering a formula of the invention. In
some embodiments, the subject is a premature infant. In other embodiments, the
subject is a term infant or toddler. In certain embodiments, the subject is over the
age of 50, over the age of 60, or over the age of 70. In some embodiments, the
subject is suffering from pancreatic insufficiency. In other embodiments, the
formula is administered through a feeding tube. In some embodiments, the
nutritional formula of the invention are administered to improve cognitive ability in a
person of any age, to prevent chronic lung disease in a pre-term infant, to enhance
the neurological development of a pre-term infant, or to treat or prevent a number of
other conditions associated with improvement from increased intake of long-chain
fatty acids, such as, e.g., EPA, DHA, ARA, LA, and ALA. Such conditions include
 but are not limited to Alzheimer's disease, bipolar disorder, depression, sepsis,
 acute respiratory stress, wound healing, cancer, cardiovascular disease, stroke,
 Parkinson's disease, schizophrenia, diabetes, multiple sclerosis, malnutrition,
 impaired GI function, and chronic inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid
 arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, and inflammatory bowel disease.
 [0013]      Another embodiment of the invention provides a method for reducing the
 time a patient needs total parenteral nutrition by administering a nutritional formula
 of the invention. As a result, such patients are exposed to a reduced risk of gut
 atrophy and other complications associated with extended (more than 24 hours)
 total parenteral nutrition. Such methods may be used to shorten the recovery time
 of patients suffering from impaired GI function, such as, e.g., malabsorption, short
 bowel syndrome, IBD, pancreatic insufficiency, malnutrition before or after surgery,
 chemo- or radiotherapy, or other causes of malnutrition, cancer, wounds, and
  pressure ulcers. Such patients may receive the nutritional formula of the invention
                                             7

via nasogastric tube. This feeding method may be advantageous in situations
where the patient suffers from altered gut motility, impaired pancreatic enzyme
secretion due to Systemic Inflammatory Response Syndrome, or other conditions
that result in impaired cleavage and absorption of LC-PUFA triglycerides, LC-PUFA
fatty acid esters, and/or other long-chain triglycerides or esters of long-chain fatty
acids. In an alternate embodiment, where it is advantageous to bypass the
stomach, the nutritional formula of the invention may be administered by
 nasojejunal tube. Other types of feeding apparatus may also be used to deliver the
formulas of the invention.
 [0014]      Since healthy subjects may also benefit from increased absorption of LC
 PUFAs, e.g., by reducing the risk of cardiovascular disease. Accordingly, in some
 embodiments, the invention provides methods of improving fat absorption in a
 healthy subject, comprising feeding to the subject a nutritional formula of the
 invention.
 [0015]       The invention further provides devices for preparing the nutritional
 formulas of the invention. In some embodiments, the device comprises a chamber
 containing at least one lipase, wherein the chamber is capable of holding a liquid
  nutritional composition so that it is exposed to the lipase. In some embodiments,
 the lipase in the container is immobilized to the inner surface of the container. In
  other embodiments, the lipase is immobilized to a support within the chamber. In
  some embodiments, the device comprises a chamber consisting of a permeable
  membrane and comprising immobilized lipase within the chamber, such that the
  liquid nutritional composition may flow through the permeable membrane and come
  in contact with the lipase, but the lipase cannot pass through the permeable
                                              8

membrane. In some embodiments, the lipase contained within the chamber of a
device of the invention is a microbial lipase. In some embodiments, the lipase is
selected from bacterial lipases. In some embodiments, the lipase is selected from
Chromobacterium viscosum lipase, Pseudomonas fluorescens lipase, Burcholderia
cepacia lipase, and Rhizopus oryzae lipase. In some embodiments, the lipase is
selected from Chromobacterium viscosum lipase, Pseudomonas fluorescens lipase,
and Rhizopus oryzae lipase. In some embodiments, the lipase is Rhizopus oryzae
lipase.
[001 5a]       Definitions of the specific embodiments of the invention as claimed
herein follow.
[001 5b]       According to a first embodiment of the invention, there is provided a
device for providing a nutritional formula comprising monoglycerides and free fatty
acids by temporarily exposing a nutritional composition comprising long-chain
polyunsaturated fatty acid (LC-PUFA) triglycerides and/or LC-PUFA esters to lipase
prior to ingestion, the device comprising:
               a container defining an interior for receiving the nutritional composition;
               a structure in fluid communication with the interior of the container; and
               at least one lipase immobilized to the structure so that the nutritional
        composition is exposed to the at least one lipase when the nutritional
        composition is received within the container.
[001 5c]       According to a second embodiment of the invention, there is provided a
device for providing a nutritional formula comprising monoglycerides and free fatty
acids by temporarily exposing a nutritional composition comprising long-chain
polyunsaturated fatty acid (LC-PUFA) triglycerides and/or LC-PUFA esters to lipase
prior to ingestion, the device comprising:
                                              9

                 a container having a distal end, a proximal end, and an interior region
         partially defined by one or more walls; and
                 a lipase immobilized to a structure contained within the interior region,
wherein at least one of the one or more walls is permeable to the nutritional
composition but retains the structure so that the nutritional composition is exposed to
the lipase when the nutritional composition enters the interior region.
[001 5d]         According to a third embodiment of the invention, there is provided a
method of preparing a nutritional formula comprising LC-PUFAs in the form of
monoglycerides and free fatty acids prior to ingestion by a subject, the method
comprising exposing a liquid nutritional composition comprising LC-PUFA triglycerides
and/or LC-PUFA esters to immobilized lipase, wherein the immobilized lipase is
retained within a container and the nutritional formula is ready for ingestion by the
subject once the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to the immobilized lipase.
[001 5e]         According to a fourth embodiment of the invention, there is provided a
nutritional formula comprising LC-PUFAs in the form of monoglycerides and free fatty
acids prepared by the method of the third embodiment.
[001 5f]         According to a fifth embodiment of the invention, there is provided a
method of:
         a) providing nutrition to a subject;
         b) improving fat absorption in a subject;
         c) reducing the level of at least one LC-PUFA selected from the group
consisting of DHA, ARA, and EPA in the subject's stool by at least 50%;
         d) increasing the level of DHA, ARA, or both in the subject's plasma, retina,
heart, and/or erythrocytes;
         e) preventing chronic lung disease in an infant;
                                               9a

       f) improving cognitive ability in a subject;
       g) increasing the level of one or more plasma components selected from the
group consisting of triglycerides, cholesterol, HDL, and/or LDL; and/or
       h) increasing the plasma level of at least one vitamin selected from the group
consisting of vitamin A and vitamin E in a subject;
the method comprising feeding to the subject the nutritional formula of the fourth
embodiment.
Brief Description of the Drawings
[0016]     Fig. 1 illustrates a device and method for providing nutrition to an infant,
according to certain embodiments.
[0017]     Fig. 2A illustrates a device for treating formula, according to certain
embodiments.
[0018]     Fig. 2B illustrates a device for treating formula, according to certain
embodiments.
[0019]     Fig. 2C illustrates a device for treating formula, according to certain
embodiments.
[0020]     Fig. 3A illustrates a device for treating formula, according to certain
embodiments.
[0021]     Fig. 3B illustrates a device for treating formula, according to certain
embodiments.
                                [Text continues on page 10.]
                                              9b

[0022]   Fig. 3C illustrates a device for treating formula, according to certain
embodiments.
[0023]   Fig. 4A illustrates a device for treating formula, according to certain
embodiments.
[0024]   Fig. 4B illustrates a device for treating formula, according to certain
embodiments.
[0025]    Fig. 5A illustrates a device for treating formula, according to certain
embodiments.
[0026]    Fig. 5B illustrates a device for treating formula, according to certain
embodiments.
[0027]    Fig. 6A is a photograph of a vial of Rhizopus oryzae lipase immobilized
on polymer beads.
 [0028]   Fig. 6B illustrates a device for treating and administering nutritional
formula according to certain embodiments.
 [0029]   Fig. 6C illustrates a device for treating and administering nutritional
formula according to certain embodiments.
 [0030]   Fig. 6D illustrates a close up of the device depicted in Fig. 6C.
 [0031]   Fig. 7 depicts the hydrolysis of DHA triglyceride by Rhizopus oryzae (RO)
 lipase.
 [0032]   Fig. 8 depicts the hydrolysis of ARA triglyceride by Rhizopus oryzae
 lipase.
                                            10

[0033]   Fig. 9A illustrates a device for treating formula, according to certain
embodiments,
[0034]   Fig. 9B illustrates a device for treating formula, according to certain
embodiments.
[0035]   Fig. 9C illustrates a device for treating formula, according to certain
embodiments.
[0036]   Fig. 10A illustrates a device for treating formula, according to certain
embodiments.
[0037]   Fig. 1OB illustrates a device for treating formula, according to certain
embodiments.
[0038]   Fig. 1 C illustrates a device for treating formula, according to certain
embodiments.
 [0039]  Fig. 1IA illustrates a device for treating formula, according to certain
embodiments.
 [0040]  Fig. 11 B illustrates a device for treating formula, according to certain
 embodiments,
 [0041]  Fig. 11C illustrates a device for treating formula, according to certain
 embodiments.
 [0042]  Fig. 12 illustrates a device for treating formula, according to certain
 embodiments.
                                           11

[00431     Fig. 13A illustrates a device for treating formula, according to certain
embodiments.
[0044]     Fig. 13B illustrates a device for treating formula, according to certain
embodiments.
[0045]     Fig. 14 illustrates a device for treating formula, according to certain
embodiments.
 [0046]    Fig. 15 illustrates a device for treating formula, according to certain
embodiments.
 [0047]    Fig. 16 illustrates a device for treating formula, according to certain
 embodiments.
 [0048]    Fig. 17A illustrates a device for treating formula, according to certain
 embodiments.
 [0049]     Fig. 17B illustrates a partial cut-away view of a device for treating
 formula, according to certain embodiments.
 [0050]     Fig. 18 illustrates a device for treating formula, according to certain
 embodiments.
 [0051]     Fig. 19 illustrates a partial cut-away view of a device for treating formula,
 according to certain embodiments.
  [0052]    Fig. 20 illustrates a partial cut-away view of a device for treating formula,
  according to certain embodiments.
                                               12

[0053]       Fig, 21 illustrates a partial cut-away view of a device for treating formula,
according to certain embodiments.
[0054]       Fig. 22A shows stool weight in EPI pigs during the control week ("Cont
week," during which pigs were fed TG-LCPUFA fortified infant formula) vs. the
treatment week ("Treat week," during which pigs were fed the same fortified formula
either non-hydrolyzed ("CONT"), pre-hydrolyzed with Chromobacterium viscosum
lipase ("CV"), or pre-hydrolyzed with Rhizopus oryzae lipase ("RO")). Fig. 22B
shows total fecal fat content over the last 3 days of the treatment week in the same
3 groups of pigs, and Fig. 22C shows the coefficient of fat absorption (%CFA).
[0055]       Fig. 23 shows the levels of ARA (A), EPA (B), and DHA (C) in the faeces
of EPI pigs fed non-hydrolyzed formula ("CONT"), formula pre-hydrolyzed with CV
 lipase ("CV"), or formula pre-hydrolyzed with RO lipase ("RO"). Asterisks indicate
 p<0 .00 1 .
 [0056]      Fig. 24 shows levels of ARA (A) and DHA (B) in the plasma of EPI pigs
 following 7 days of feeding with non-hydrolyzed formula ("CONT"), formula pre
 hydrolyzed with CV lipase ("CV"), or formula pre-hydrolyzed with RO lipase ("RO").
 Asterisks indicate p<0.05.
 [0057]      Fig. 25 shows levels of ARA and DHA in the retina (A) and adipose tissue
 (B) of EPI pigs following 7 days of feeding with non-hydrolyzed formula ("CONT"),
 formula pre-hydrolyzed with CV lipase ("CV), or formula pre-hydrolyzed with RO
 lipase ("RO"). Asterisks indicate p<0.05.
 [0058]      Fig. 26 shows levels of ARA and DHA in the heart (A) and kidney tissue
 (B) of EPI pigs following 7 days of feeding with non-hydrolyzed formula ("CONT"),
                                                13

formula pre-hydrolyzed with CV lipase ("CV"), or formula pre-hydrolyzed with RO
lipase ("RO"). Asterisks indicate p<0.05.
[0059]      Fig. 27 shows percent hydrolysis of DHA and ARA in Enfalac formula
with 100 mg (A), 500 mg (B), 1000 mg (C), or 2000 mg (D) of immobilized RO
lipase.
[0060]      Fig. 28 shows percent hydrolysis of DHA (A) and ARA (B) with RO lipase
or pancreatin.
 [00611     Fig. 29 depicts the study design for the 6-week pig study described in
 Example 10.
 [0062]     Fig. 30 shows levels of ARA and DHA in erythrocytes collected from
 healthy pigs fed TG-LCPUFA-fortified infant formula ("Healthy"), pigs with
 surgically-induced exocrine pancreatic insufficiency fed TG-LCPUFA-fortified infant
 formula ("EPI"), and pigs with surgically-induced exocrine pancreatic insufficiency
 fed TG-LCPUFA-fortified infant formula that had been pre-hydrolyzed by
 immobilized RO lipase ("EPl+iRO").
 Long-Chain Polunsaturated Fatty Acids
 [0063]      Long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (LC-PUFAs) are hydrocarbon
 chains containing two or more double bonds. Depending on the position of the first
 double bond relative to the methyl terminus, an LC-PUFA can be classified as an
 omega-3 (n-3) or omega-6 (n-6) fatty acid. ALA and LA are parent fatty acids of the
 n-3 and n-6 PUFA families, respectively. They are considered "essential fatty
 acids," meaning that humans cannot synthesize them, but rather, must obtain them
                                            14

through diet. This is because mammals lack the ability to introduce double bonds
in fatty acids beyond carbon 9 and 10. Blosover et al. Cell Biology: A Short Course,
John Wiley & Sons, Inc. at 39 (2011). However, humans can make additional long
chain PUFAs starting with ALA and LA.
[0064]       Both ALA and LA are metabolized to generate other long-chain PUFAs
through a series of desaturation and elogation steps. For example, ALA is
metabolized to EPA and ultimately DHA. LA is metabolized to ARA, an n-6 fatty
acid. Conversion of ALA to DHA and EPA and LA to ARA however, is relatively
 inefficient. L. Arterburn et al., Am. J. Clin. Nutr. 83(suppl):1467S-1476S (2006).
 Studies have estimated the conversion of ALA to DHA in humans is less than 5%.
 B. Anderson and D. Ma, Lipids Health Dis. 8:33 (2009). The liver contains the most
 active tissue for converting ALA to DHA and LA to ARA, and therefore plays a key
 role in providing DHA and ARA to less active tissues or organs, such as the brain.
 M. Martinez et al., J. Pediatr.120:S129-S138 (1992). Alternatively, these LC
 PUFAs can be consumed directly from the diet. DHA and EPA are found in fish,
 walnuts, and flaxseed oil, whereas ARA is available from animal fat sources, corn
 oil, soybean oil and sunflower seed oil.
         n-3 Fatty Acids
 [0065]      The n-3 fatty acid DHA is critical to neural and retinal development and
 function. It is the main long-chain PUFA in the neural membrane and is essential
 for brain function, building of brain circuits, and nerve impulse transmission. As an
 integral membrane component, DHA contributes to membrane fluidity which is
 important for maintaining synaptic structures, neurotransmission, and synaptic
 plasticity. G. Jicha et al., Clin. Interv. Aging 5:45-61 (2010). DHA also influences
                                               15

signaling events essential to neuron differentiation and survival, and has effects on
the levels and metabolism of neurotransmitters and eicosanoids. The majority of
DHA accumulation in the brain occurs at the beginning of the    3rd  trimester
throughout the second year of life. It has been demonstrated that in rodents and
primates, an inadequate supply of n-3 PUFA during this period results in impaired
learning capacity and neurotransmission. M. Martinez et al., J. Pediatr. 120:S129
S138 (1992). Supplementation of DHA in rats that were previously restricted to a
DHA-deficient diet rescues performance in memory and learning tasks. W. Chung
et al., J. Nutr. 138(6):1165-1171 (2008). And in a study of healthy adolescent boys,
8 weeks of DHA supplementation significantly increased functional activation in the
dorsolateral prefrontal cortex during performance of an activation task compared to
placebo. R. McNamara et al., Am. J. Nutr. 91:1060-7 (2010). Thus, DHA is
considered important not only in development, but in the maintenance of neuronal
function.
[0066]      DHA is also highly concentrated in the retina and has important effects
on photoreceptor differentiation and activation of the visual pigment rhodopsin. H.
 Lauritzen et al., Prog. Lipid Res. 40:1-94 (2001); M. Clandinin et al., J. Pediatr.
 125:S25-32 (1994). An inadequate supply of DHA early in the development of
 primates and rodents results in abnormal retinal physiology and reduced visual
acuity. M. Reisbick et al, Dev. Psychol. 33:387-395 (1997); J. McCann et al., Am.
J. Clin. Nutr. 82:281-295 (2005). Similarly, in humans, infants fed formula without
 DHA for the first twelve months of life have been shown to have lower visual acuity
than infants fed DHA-supplemented formula. E. Birch et al., Am. J. Clin. Nutr.
 91(4):848-859 (2010). DHA deficiencies have also been associated with fetal
 alcohol syndrome, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, cystic fibrosis,
                                            16

phenylketonuria, unipolar depression, aggressive hostility, and
adrenoleukodystrophy. A. Horrocks et al., Pharmacological Res. 40(3):211-225
(1999).
[0067]       The benefits of increased intake of DHA and other n-3 fatty acids have
been described for various diseases, including for example, Alzheimer's disease
(AD), bipolar disorder (BP), depression, including major depressive disorder (MDD)
and post-partem depression, sepsis, acute respiratory stress, wound healing,
cancer, cardiovascular disease, stroke, Parkinson's disease, schizophrenia,
diabetes, multiple sclerosis, and chronic inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid
arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, and inflammatory bowel disease.
[0068]        For example, clinical trials with AD patients have demonstrated that DHA
 provides a therapeutic benefit. For a review of studies evaluating the effect of DHA
 in AD, see G. Jicha and W. Markesbery, Clin. Interv. Aging 5:45-61 (2010). Data
from in vitro assays, cell culture systems, and urine models of AD support a direct
 role for n-3 PUFAs in amyloid processing in the brain. And in amyloid-producing
 transgenic models of AD, supplementation with DHA results in lower levels of ap.
 M. Oksman et al., Neurobiol. Dis. 23(3):563-572 (2006). In addition to positive
 clinical trial data in patients with AD, a large study in healthy elderly people with
 mild memory complaints showed that subjects administered DHA performed better
 on learning and memory tests after six months compared to those receiving
 placebo. (Martek Press Release, May 4, 2010). Thus, DHA may also play a
 beneficial role in preventing AD.
  [0069]      Therapeutic use of DHA has also been investigated in patients with BP
  and MDD. For a review on DHA in BP, see V. Balencia-Martinez et al., Expert.
                                                17

Rev. Neurother. 11(7):1029-1047 (2011). Due to the difficulties in assessing DHA
levels in brain tissue from human patients, the fatty acid composition in erythrocyte
membranes from blood samples has been evaluated and was found to contain
significantly less DHA in patients with BP and MDD than in healthy controls. R.
McNamara et al., J. Affect. Disord. 126(1-2):303-311 (2010). In a post-mortem
study, the fatty acid composition of the orbitofrontal cortex had significantly lower
levels of DHA in BP patients compared to normal controls. R. McNamara et al.,
Psychiatry Res. 160(3):285-299 (2008). And in a 4-month, double-blind, placebo
controlled study, BP patients receiving n-3 fatty acids had a significantly longer
period of remission than the placebo group. A. Stoll et al., Arch. Gen. Psychiatry
56(5):407-412 (1999). These studies implicate DHA as therapeutically beneficial in
BD and MDD, particularly due to its mood-stabilizing effects.
[0070]       DHA has also been shown to benefit patients suffering from other forms
of depression. For a review, see A. Logan et al., Lipids Health Dis. 3:25-32 (2004),
A number of studies have found decreased n-3 levels in the blood of patients with
depression. Similarly, an increase in plasma DHA was associated with a reduction
 in women reporting symptoms of post-partem depression. Some placebo
controlled studies have found n-3 treatment improves depressive systems. For a
 review on the relationship between n-3 levels and depression, see A. Logan et al.,
 Lipids Health Dis. 3:25-32 (2004).
 [0071]      In sepsis, an enteral diet enriched with EPA, y-linolenic acid, and
 antioxidants improved hospital outcomes and reduced mortality in patients with
 severe sepsis or septic shock requiring mechanical ventilation. A. Pontes-Arruda et
 al., Crit. Care Med. 34(9):2325-2333 (2006). Similar benefits in ventilator-free days,
                                              18

ICU-free days, reduced new organ dysfunctions, and a decreased mortality rate
have been reported in patients with acute respiratory stress fed a diet enriched
long-chain PUFAs and antioxidants. J. Gadek et al. Crit. Care Med. 27(8):1409
1420 (1999).
[0072]      N-3 fatty acids are also reported to have beneficial effects in wound
healing. Through altering the lipid microenvironement, n-3 fatty acids enhance the
reconstitution of epithelial cells and may also help to reduce inflammation.    D.
Ruthig and K. Meckling-Gill, J. Nutr. 129:1791-1798 (1999); J. McDaniel et al.
Wound Repair Regen. 19(2):189-200 (2011).
[0073]      EPA and DHA have shown protective effects in cancers, such as prostate
and breast cancer. The beneficial effects may be due to anti-inflammatory
properties, as well as mechanisms that decrease proliferation and promote
apoptosis, such as through downregulation of NF-KB. For a discussion on n-3 fatty
acids in cancer, see B. Anderson and D. Ma, Lipids Health Dis. 8:33 (2009).
 [0074]     N-3 fatty acids have been associated with beneficial effects in patients
with cardiovascular disease and in reducing the risk of cardiovascular disease in
 healthy people. Similar positive effects have been reported in stroke. Accordingly,
the American Heart Association, as well as other health agencies, has issued
 recommendations for increased intake of n-3 fatty acids in the diet. P. Kris
 Etherton et al. Circulation 106:2747-2757 (2002). Possible mechanisms for the
 observed effects of n-3 fatty acids on cardiovascular health include
 hypotriglyceridemic effects, hypotensive effects, reduction in platelet aggregation,
 and stabilizing effects on the myocardium itself.
                                            19

[0075]      The benefit of n-3 fatty acids in some conditions may be attributed to
broad anti-inflammatory effects. EPA and DHA give rise to resolvins, which are
anti-inflammatory mediators with inflammation-resolving and immunomodulatory
functions. For example, EPA and DHA exhibit inhibitory effects on leukocyte
chemotaxis and alter the production of inflammatory cytokines through reducing
activation of NF-KB in immune cells. P. Calder, Int. Rev. Irrnunol. 28:506-534
(2009). In general, n-3 PUFAs are associated with reduced pro-inflammatory T cell
responses. When n-3 fatty acids are increased in animal diets, the T cell
membrane microdomain composition in lipid rafts is altered, resulting in decreased
 NF-KB activation, IL-2 production, and cellular proliferation. Specifically, n-3 PUFAs
affect the distribution and partitioning of the earliest signaling mediators of T-cell
activation, such as protein kinase C. Y. Fan et al., J. Immunol. 173:6151-6160
 (2004). N-3 fatty acids have also been shown to reduce MHC class 11expression
 on dendritic cells, effectively decreasing antigen presentation to T cells, whereas n
 6 fatty acids are associated with increased antigen presentation activity.
 Sanderson et al., J. Leukoc. Biol. 62:771-777 (1997). In a monocyte cell line and in
 intraperitoneal macrophages, DHA and EPA have anti-inflammatory properties
 mediated through a G protein-coupled receptor 120 (GPR120). As a result, these
 fatty acids display antidiabetic effects in vivo via suppressing macrophage-induced
 tissue inflammation. D. Oh et al., Cell 142(5):687-698 (2010). The various
 immunomodulatory functions of n-3 PUFAs indicate they may be influential in many
 human diseases.
                                             20

        n-6 Fatty Acids
[0076]       Like n-3 fatty acids, n-6 fatty acids, such as ARA, play a crucial role in
neural development and brain function, with ARA accumulation occurring in the
brain during pre- and post-natal development. B. Koletzo et al., J. Perinat.Med.
36(1):5-14 (2008). N-6 fatty acids are generally important for normal development
and immunity, and also stimulate skin and hair growth, maintain bone health,
regulate metabolism, and maintain the reproductive system.
Long-Chain PUEASuplements
[0077]       For over a decade, health agencies have recommended the consumption
of n-3 fatty acids in the diet due to their health benefits. DHA and EPA are
commercially available as triglycerides or in esterified form in nutritional
supplements or prescription products (e.g., LOVAZA®, OMACOR@, and
Vascepa 1M ). DHA supplements may be derived from fish oil, or from vegetarian
sources such as flaxseed oil or algae. Supplements may be powder, liquid
 beverage, or tube-feeding formulas.
 [0078]      Infant formula is subject to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act,
which defines infant formula as "a food which purports to be or is represented for
 special dietary use solely as a food for infants by reasons of its simulation of human
 milk or its suitability as a complete or partial substitute for human milk." The FDA
 defines infants as people not more than 12 months old. 21 CFR 105.3(e). The
 main n-3 fatty acid in human milk is DHA, averaging 7-8 mg/dL (ranging from
 0.17% to 1.0% of total fatty acids). R. Yuhas et al., Lipids 41(9):851-858 (2006).
 The amount of DHA in human milk is mostly a reflection of maternal DHA intake.
                                               21

[0079]       Commercially available TG-LCPUFA-supplemented infant formulas
include Enfamil formulas, such as Enfamil LIPIL@ and Enfamil PREMIUM@,
Baboo, Earth's Best Organic, Nestle formulas, such as Nestle Gerber GOOD
START@ and Nestle NAN@, Nutricia formulas such as NEOCATE® and
APTAMIL@, Parent's Choice Organic, Pfizer's SMA GOLD@, Similac formulas,
such as Similac ADVANCE@, Similac EARLY SHIELD®, and ISOMIL®, and Ultra
Bright Beginnings. Other infant formulas may also be supplemented with TG
LCPUFA. TG-LCPUFA-supplemented formulas may be milk-based or soy-based,
and may be organic. In the U.S., TG-LCPUFA-supplemented infant formula
accounts for approximately 90% of product sales (Mead Johnson Nutrition).
[0080]       TG-LCPUFA may also be added to follow-on formulas and drinks for
toddlers, elderly, and other people needing nutritional support or dietary
 supplementation with long-chain fatty acids. Examples of such a product include
 ENSURE@, PEDIASURE®, CARNATIONS, BOOST@, CERELAC®, and
 SOUVENAID®. In addition, specialized formulas that are supplemented with TG
 LCPUFA or esters of LC-PUFAs may be used in connection with the methods and
 devices of the invention in patients requiring tube feeding. For example, enteral
 formulas are commonly used in pre-term infants, patients with renal failure,
 gastrointestinal diseases or conditions causing impaired GI function, bowel
 resection, fat malabsorption, malnutrition, pancreatitis, hyperglycemia/diabetes,
 liver failure, acute and chronic pulmonary disease, or an immunocompromised
 state. For a review of commercially available enteral formulas, see A. Malone,
 Pract. Gastr. 29(6):44-74 (2005). Nutritional formulas may be standard, elemental,
 or specialized based on a patient's disease or condition. Commonly used standard
 formulas include, for example, ISOCAL@, NUTREN 1 0@R,NUTREN 1.5@,
                                            22

NUTREN 2.0@, OSOMLITE 1.0@, OSMOLITE 1.2@, FIBERSOURCE 1.2@, JEVITY
1.2@, JEVITY 1.5®, PROBALANCE@, ISOSOURCE 1.5@, DELIVER 2.0@,
NOVOSOURCE 2.0@, and TWOCAL HN®. Elemental formulas may contain
macronutrient sources including polymeric and hydrolyzed formulas and may be
fiber enhanced. Disease specific formulas include, for example, renal formulas
such as MAGNACAL RENAL®, NEPRO®, NOVASOURCE RENAL@, SUPLENA@,
and NUTRI-RENAL@.
[0081]      Gastrointestinal (GI) formulas may used for the nutritional management
of patients with impaired GI function including in patients with severe protein or fat
 malabsorption, extensive bowel resection, cystic fibrosis, cerebral palsy, short
 bowel syndrome, IBD, pancreatitis, Crohn's disease, diarrhea, GI fistula, Celiac
 disease, malabsorption syndromes, trauma/surgery, radiation enteritis, intestinal
failure, chylothorax. These formulas are also used for early post-operative feeding,
 trophic feeding, total parenteral nutrition (TPN) alternative, and dual feeding with
 TPN. GI formulas include, for example, PEPTAMEN@, which is made up of 70%
 medium-chain triglycerides to decrease the potential for fat malabsorption and 30%
 long-chain triglycerides, VIVONEX PLUS®, and VIVONEX PEDIATRIC®.
 [00821      Unfortunately, for people suffering from impaired ability to hydrolyze long
 chain triglycerides or esters of long-chain fatty acids, such as, e.g., those with
 compromised pancreatic output or those suffering from pancreatic insufficiency,
 even supplementing such formulas with DHA, EPA, and other n-3 fatty acids may
 not be enough to realize the benefits associated with these compounds. Long
 chain triglycerides or fatty acid esters must be metabolized to monoglycerides
 and/or free fatty acids in order to be properly absorbed in the gut. The invention
                                             23

provides methods of utilizing existing commercially available long-chain PUFA
supplements or newly designed formulas supplemented with long-chain PUFAs to
provide ready to use formulas containing significantly higher concentrations of long
chain monoglycerides and/or free fatty acids. In some embodiments, the methods
will be particularly effective at providing long-chain monoglycerides and/or free fatty
acids produced from DHA, EPA, and ARA triglycerides or esterified DHA, EPA, and
ARA so that the formula will provide the maximum benefit associated with these
critical fatty acids to people who otherwise would not be able to hydrolyze and
absorb them.
ReducedAiityto Hydro              Lorqi-hin Triqycerides and Ftty Acid          ers
[0083]       Pancreatic insufficiency is one of the conditions that leads to a reduced
ability to hydrolyze long-chain triglycerides. Pancreatic insufficiency is
characterized by insufficient production of exocrine pancreatic enzymes, including
pancreatic lipase. Pancreatic insufficiency may occur naturally during various
stages of human life. For example, the secretion of pancreatic lipase begins at low
levels at around 30 weeks gestation and remains low during the first year of life.
Therefore, infants, and especially pre-term infants, may experience pancreatic
 insufficiency. As a result, if they are not breast feeding, these infants are
susceptible to poor fatty acid hydrolysis and absorption, and are deprived of the
 benefits associated with ingestion of DHA, EPA, and other LC-PUFAs.
 [0084]      On the other end of the spectrum, otherwise healthy elderly may also
 experience pancreatic insufficiency or other reduced ability to hydrolyze LC-PUFA
 triglycerides or esterified LC- PUFAs due to changes in the pancreas that occur as
 part of the natural aging process. These changes may include atrophy, fibrosis,
                                              24

sclerosis, or lipomatosis of the pancreas. As a result, the elderly may experience
symptoms of maldigestion including malnutrition, steatorrhoea, diarrhea, abdominal
pain and weight loss because of reduced exocrine pancreatic enzyme secretion. K.
Herzig et al., BMC Geriatrics 11:4-8 (2011).
[0085]      Pancreatic insufficiency or other reduced ability to hydrolyze LC-PUFA
triglycerides or esterified LC-PUFAs may also result from disease or trauma. For
example, pancreatitis is a condition of inflammation in the pancreas which results in
pancreatic insufficiency. Pancreatitis may be either acute or chronic, and includes
pancreatitis caused by alcoholism, idiopathic chronic pancreatitis, hereditary
pancreatitis, traumatic pancreatitis, acute necrotizing pancreatitis, and autoimmune
pancreatitis. Cystic fibrosis is also a cause pancreatic insufficiency, particularly in
children and adolescents. Disorders that result in a decrease in intraduodenal pH,
such as gastrinoma (Zollinger-Ellison syndrome), can inactivate lipase and cause
pancreatic insufficiency. Pancreatic insufficiencies can also be caused by surgeries
of the gastrointestinal tract in which portions of the stomach or pancreas are
 removed, pancreatic cancer, gastrointestinal diseases such as stomach ulcers,
 celiac disease, or Crohn's disease, or in autoimmune disorders such as systemic
 lupus erythematosus (SLE) or inflammatory bowel disease (IBD).
 [0086]     Other causes of a reduced ability to digest TG-LCPUFAs, esterified LC
 PUFAs, and/or other long-chain triglycerides and fatty acid esters include, for
 example, irritable bowel syndrome, hypertriglyceridemia, malnutrition, including
 severe protein-calorie malnutrition, pancreatic and duodenal neoplasms, abdominal
 radiotherapy, hemochromatosis, primary sclerosing cholangitis, primary biliary
 cirrhosis, Shwachman's syndrome, trypsinogen deficiency, enterokinase deficiency,
                                            25

or an isolated deficiency of lipase. D. Kasper et al, Harrison's Principles of Internal
Medicine   1 6 th Ed. (2004). A reduced ability to digest long-chain triglycerides or
esterified long-chain PUFAs may also result from bowel resection, cystic fibrosis,
cerebral palsy, short bowel syndrome, IBD, pancreatitis, Crohn's disease, diarrhea,
GI fistula, Celiac disease, malabsorption syndromes, trauma/surgery, particularly GI
trauma or surgery, radiation enteritis, intestinal failure, chylothorax, cancer,
particularly pancreatic or GI cancer, and/or wound healing. Although the exact
cause is unknown, children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) have
also reduced levels of LC-PUFAs. Burgress et al., Am. J. Clin. Nutri.
71(suppl):327S-30S (2000).
[0087]      Cystic fibrosis (CF) patients, for example, have been shown to have
reduced levels of LC-PUFAs. Peretti et al., Nutrition & Metabolism 2:11-28 (2005).
CF patients receiving pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy frequently continue
to suffer from fat malabsorption. Kalivianakis, American Journal of Clinical Nutrition
69:127-134 (1999). In some embodiments, the invention provides formulas and
methods for improving absorption of fats, such as, e.g., LC-PUFAs, in CF patients.
 In some embodiments, the invention provides formulas and methods for inducing
weight gain in CF patients
 [0088]     While cachexia and weight loss are common in the advanced stages of
 many cancers due to the catabolic state of tissues, diversion of nutrients, and
 malabsorption in advanced stages, pancreatic cancer (PC) is unusual in that weight
 loss and malabsorption are present in 80%-90% of patients at the time of
 diagnosis. Malabsorption from exocrine deficiency largely accounts for weight loss
 and is due to loss of pancreatic parenchyma, blockage of the pancreatic duct
                                             26

preventing enzymes from reaching the gut, and surgical procedures. The common
end result of all these mechanisms is steatorrhea and weight loss. Damerla et al., J
of Support Oncology 6:393-396 (2008). Weight stabilization in PC is associated
with improved survival and quality of life. Davidson et al., Clinical Nutrition 23, 239
247 (2004). In some embodiments, the invention provides formulas and methods
for improving absorption of fats, such as, e.g., LC-PUFAs, in PC patients. In some
embodiments, the invention provides formulas and methods for inducing weight
gain in PC patients.
[0089]       Some embodiments of the invention improve upon current treatment
options for pancreatic insufficiency and other conditions that reduce the ability to
 hydrolyze TG-LCPUFAs, esterified LC-PUFAs, and/or other long-chain triglycerides
and fatty acid esters. In a patient with reduced ability to hydrolyze TG-LCPUFAs,
esterified LC-PUFAs, and/or other long-chain triglycerides and fatty acid esters,
 merely increasing consumption of these nutrients without improving hydrolysis can
 cause steatorrhea, abdominal pain, cramping, diarrhea, and other gastrointestinal
 complications. Pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy can also lead to
 complications. It has been observed that large amounts of pancreatic digestive
 enzymes can damage the large intestine resulting in fibrosing colonopathy. D.
 Bansi et al., Gut 46:283-285 (2000); D. Borowitz et al. J. Pediatr. 127:681-684
 (1995). Another significant danger posed by lipase supplements is allergic
 reaction, as many commercial lipase supplements are derived from animal sources.
 Thus, embodiments of the invention that provide pre-hydrolyzed long-chain
 triglycerides or long-chain PUFA esters, with or without added lipase, will provide
 better and safer methods for treating pancreatic insufficiency or other reduced
 ability to digest long-chain triglycerides or esterified long-chain PUFAs.
                                             27

[0090]       While both n-3 and n-6 fatty acids are important during development, n-3
fatty acids are believed to be more critical than n-6 fatty acids later in life. In some
subjects, particularly some adults, it may be desirable to increase the ratio of (DHA
and EPA):ARA. In particular, cystic fibrosis patients may benefit from increasing
the ratio of (DHA and EPA):ARA in their plasma. Unfortunately, currently available
adult formulas generally have a low ratio of n-3:n-6 fatty acids. Moreover, in
subjects with impaired hydrolysis of TG-LCPUFAs, simply increasing consumption
of n-3 TG-LCPUFAs is unlikely to significantly improve the (DHA and EPA):ARA
 ratio in the subject, and the resulting increase in undigested TG-LCPUFAs could
 cause gastrointestinal problems.
 [0091]      Accordingly, some embodiments of the invention provide formulas and
 methods for increasing the ratio of (DHA and EPA):ARA in a subject, particularly in
 an adult subject. For example, some embodiments provide methods of preparing
 an adult formula in which a formula comprising n-3 triglycerides and/or esters is
 exposed to a lipase that hydrolyzes n-3 triglycerides and/or esters. In some
 embodiments, the prepared formula comprises a higher ratio of n-3:n-6
 monoglycerides and/or free fatty acids, e.g., a higher ratio of free DHA and EPA to
 free ARA, than in the corresponding formula without lipase treatment. In some
 embodiments, the formula comprises more n-3 monoglycerides and/or free fatty
 acids than n-6 monoglycerides and/or free fatty acids, e.g., more free DHA and
 EPA than free ARA. In some embodiments, the formula is prepared by exposing it
 to a lipase that has higher activity toward n-3 triglycerides and/or esters than n-6
 triglycerides and/or esters. In some embodiments, the enzyme is RO enzyme. The
  invention also provides a formula in which the ratio of n-3:n-6 free fatty acids and/or
 monoglycerides is higher than the ratio of n-3:n-6 fatty acids found in the subject's
                                             28

plasma, e.g., a formula in which the ratio of free DHA and EPA to free ARA is
higher than in the subject's plasma. The invention also provide methods in which
such a formula is administered to an adult subject. In some embodiments, the
subject has cystic fibrosis.
        Reduced Ability to Hydrolyze Long-Chain Fatty Acids in Pre-term Infants
[0092]      Long-chain PUFAs are critical in infants for normal nervous system and
retinal development and are highly accumulated in the cell membranes of the brain
and retina starting at 30 weeks gestation. C. Martin et al., J. Pediatr. 159(5):743
749 (2011); A. Lapillone et al., Leukotrines Ess. Fatty Acids 81:143-150 (2009); J.
McCann et al., Am. J. Clin. Nutr. 82:281-295 (2005); M. Martinez et al., J. Pediatr.
120:S129-S138 (1992). Normally fatty acids, including DHA, EPA, and ARA, as
well as the lipases needed to break these fatty acids down to monoglycerides and
free fatty acids are provided to the fetus through the placenta and then to infants
through breast milk. Pre-term infants are at a significantly higher risk for an
inadequate supply of fatty acids due to the shortened gestation time followed by
their dependence on external sources for fatty acids after birth. C. Martin et al., J.
Pediatr. 159(5):743-749 (2011). Additionally, because pre-term infants do not
produce sufficient levels of pancreatic lipase, they consequently have difficulty
 hydrolyzing any long-chain fatty acids that are provided in their formula.
 [0093]     It has been demonstrated that pre-mature infants have less DHA and
 lower DHA/ARA ratios in both the brain and retina compared to a full-term infant.
 M. Martinez et al., J. Pediatr. 120:S129-S138 (1992). Additionally, in a
 retrospective study of the fatty acid profile of pre-term infants, inadequate levels of
 long-chain PUFAs were associated with an increase of chronic lung disease and
                                             29

sepsis, possibly due to dysregulated immune response. C. Martin et al, J. Pediatr.
 159(5):743-749 (2011).      These studies and others suggest that, even with
formulas supplemented with DHA and other long-chain triglycerides or long-chain
fatty acid esters, ensuring adequate levels of long-chain PUFAs in pre-term infants
is a significant and potentially unmet need. The formulas, methods, and devices of
the invention will allow pre-term infants to receive sufficient amounts of long-chain
fatty acids to recognize the associated medical benefits.
        Reduced Ability to Hydrolyze Long-Chain Fatty Acids in Formula-fed Infants
 [0094]      Infants fed formula that have not been supplemented with fatty acids may
 also experience deficits in long-chain PUFAs. The levels of long-chain PUFAs
were found to decline in infants fed unsupplemented formula compared to infants
fed breast milk. B. Koletzo et al., J. Perinat. Med. 36(1):5-14 (2008). Even infants
 fed breast milk can experience deficits in n-3 fatty acids as the amount of DHA in
 breast milk varies and is correlated with maternal dietary intake. A positive
 correlation between the amount of DHA in breast milk and visual and language
 development in breast-fed infants has been described. S. Innis, J. Pediatr. 143:81
 S8 (2003). Thus, a diet containing DHA is recommended for women that are
 breast-feeding. For formula-fed infants, all major formula manufacturers have
 introduced premium infant formulas with fats containing DHA and ARA. However,
 reports on the benefits of those DHA and ARA enriched formulas have been mixed.
 Some studies have shown significant advantages in cognitive development when
 infants received long-chain PUFA containing formula, while others have not. B.
 Koletzo et al., J. Perinat. Med. 36(1):5-14 (2008); E. Sarkadi-Nagy et al., J. Lipid
 Res. 45:71-80 (2004). Recently, infants fed Enfamil LIPIL@ containing DHA and
                                            30

ARA during the first year of life experienced improved immune outcomes, including
improved respiratory health, compared to infants fed the same formula without
lipids. E. Birch et al, J. Pediatr. 156(6):902-906 (2010). Overall, however, the pre
clinical data to date has not shown consistent benefits of current long-chain PUFAs
supplemented formulas for infant development.
[0095]      One explanation for the inconsistent results in these studies is that some
infants are not able to absorb the necessary amount of critical fatty acids through
the gut even when ingesting formula supplemented with long-chain triglycerides or
long-chain fatty acid esters. This inability to absorb fatty acids may be due to the
infants' low levels of endogenous pancreatic lipase. Because lipases are typically
transferred to an infant through breast milk, formula-fed infants may not have
sufficient levels of lipase to break down the long-chain PUFAs or PUFA esters to
 monoglycerides and/or free fatty acids, for absorption by the gut. As a result,
 infants fed LC-PUFA-supplemented formula still have less absorption of LC-PUFAs
 compared to infants fed breast milk. Once again, there is a clear need to not simply
 provide fatty acid supplements, but to enable hydrolysis and absorption of these
 fatty acids.
 [00961      Adding lipase to government regulated infant formulas (or e.g, medical
 nutritional formulas) could require significant development work to screen, stabilize
 and formulate a suitable lipase supplement. In unregulated formulas, without
 sufficient testing, issues involving lipase stability, lack of specificity, purity, and/or
 interference with other materials may result in the use of excess or potentially
 harmful levels of enzyme. Adding copious amounts of a new substance, beyond
 regulatory hurdles, also introduces another variable that could affect how well a
                                             31

person with reduced ability to hydrolyze long-chain triglycerides, particularly an
infant, will tolerate a formula. This problem persists in formulas described, e.g., in
U.S. Patent 5,902,617 (Pabst) and U.S. Patent 4,944,944 (Tang).
[0097]       Embodiments of the invention solve these various problems by providing
a nutritional formula that, as-fed, provides increased amounts of essential
monoglycerides and free fatty acids that may be readily absorbed through the gut
of an infant. As a result, formula-fed subjects can be provided with the benefits of
DHA, EPA, and ARA. In some embodiments, the nutritional formula introduces no
new ingredients except pre-hydrolyzed fats that are present in existing formulas. In
certain embodiments, formula-fed babies are provided the fatty acid benefits
obtained by breast-fed infants, without exposure to lipase supplements. In other
embodiments, nutritional formula of the invention contains a highly specific lipase
that allows for the use of a minimal amount of lipase added to infant formula to
 provide increased amounts of long-chain monoglycerides and free fatty acids,
 particularly DHA, EPA, and ARA.
 [0098]      In some embodiments, the nutritional formula leads to improved
 absorption of fatty acids. In some embodiments, a subject ingests the nutritional
 formula for 3 days, 5 days, 7, days, 10 days, 14 days, 30 days, 60 days, or more.
 In some embodiments, such ingestion of a nutritional formula of the invention
 reduces the total fat in the stool, and specifically can reduce the levels of DHA,
 ARA, and/or EPA in the stool. In some embodiments, this reduction is measured
 relative to the subject's stool composition prior to beginning to ingest the nutritional
 formula. In some embodiments, this reduction is measured relative to the stool
 composition of a subject fed a nutritional formula that has not been exposed to
                                            32

lipase prior to ingestion, such as a currently available nutritional formula. The
levels of total fat, DHA, ARA, and/or EPA in the stool may be reduced by at least
10%, at least 20%, at least 30%, at least 40%, at least 50%, at least 60%, at least
70%, at least 80%, at least 90%, or more. In certain embodiments, the levels of
total fat, DHA, ARA, and/or EPA in the stool are reduced by between 50 and 80%.
In some embodiments, the level of total fat in the stool is reduced by at least 50%.
In some embodiments, the level of at least one LC-PUFA (such as DHA, ARA, or
EPA) in the stool is reduced by at least 50%. In some embodiments, the level of at
least one LC-PUFA (such as DHA, ARA, or EPA) in the stool is reduced by at least
60%. In some embodiments, the levels of DHA, ARA, and EPA in the stool are
each reduced by at least 50%. In some embodiments, the levels of DHA, ARA, and
EPA in the stool are each reduced by at least 60%. In some embodiments,
ingestion of the nutritional formula improves plasma, erythrocyte, and tissue
accretion of fat levels, including levels of DHA and ARA. Tissues may include
retina, heart, adipose, and kidney tissue. In some embodiments, ingestion of the
nutritional formula increases the level of DHA, ARA, or both in the plasma,
erythrocytes, or both. In some embodiments, ingestion of the nutritional formula
 increases the level of DHA, ARA, or both in the retina. In some embodiments,
 ingestion of the nutritional formula increases the level of DHA, ARA, or both in the
 heart. In some embodiments, ingestion of the nutritional formula increases the
 plasma level of triglycerides, cholesterol, HDL, and/or LDL. In some embodiments,
 ingestion of the nutritional formula increases the ratio of HDL to LDL in the subject's
 plasma.
 [0099]     In some embodiments, ingestion of the nutritional formula increases the
 plasma level of vitamin A and/or vitamin E. Without intending to be bound by
                                             33

theory, it is believed that this increase is due to the fact that vitamins A and E are
typically provided as esters, which must be hydrolyzed. Exposure to lipase in
various methods and compositions of the invention is believed to improve
 hydrolysis of these vitamin esters, leading to greater accumulation of vitamins A
and E in the plasma.
 [00100]      In some embodiments, ingestion of the nutritional formula has beneficial
 effects without significantly increased accumulation of fat in the liver. Fatty liver
 disease (FLD) is characterized by increased accumulation of fat, especially
 triglycerides, in the liver cells. The condition is also associated with other diseases
 that influence fat metabolism. It is normal for the liver to contain some fat and by
 itself, this causes no symptoms. In some patients, fatty liver may be accompanied
 by hepatic inflammation and liver cell death (steatohepatitis). There is also an
 association with liver cancer (hepatocellular carcinoma). Insulin resistance, as well
 as increased consumption of carbohydrates and saturated fatty acids, and a low
 intake of fiber and omega-3 fatty acids, are all positively associated with the
 pathogenesis of FLD.
 [00101]      Causes of FLD include diet, medications, diseases, and medical
 conditions. Consumption of excess calories can cause FLD; the excess caloric
 intake overwhelms the liver's ability to metabolize fat in a normal fashion, which
 results in fat accumulation in the liver. A number of medications, including as
 tamoxifen, amiodarone injection, amiodarone oral, and methotrexate are
 associated with FLD. Fatty liver is also associated with type II diabetes, obesity,
 and high triglyceride levels in the blood, celiac disease, and Wilson's disease
  (abnormality of copper metabolism), rapid weight loss, and malnutrition.
                                               34

Lipase
[00102]     Pancreatic insufficiency and other conditions associated with reduced
ability to hydrolyze long-chain triglycerides or long-chain fatty acid esters is
currently treated with supplementary digestive enzymes, including pancreatic
lipase. However, pancreatic enzymes, and particularly pancreatic lipase present in
these supplements, are often sensitive to degradation by gastric acid and pepsin so
that only a small fraction of the ingested enzymes reach the duodenum in active
form. E. Ville et al, Digestion 65:73-81 (2001). Unfortunately, many of the acid
protective coatings have potential safety concerns for infant populations or immune
compromised patients since a significant portion of the delivered weight is the
plastic coating. Moreover, although acid protective coatings have helped, some
degree of malabsorption persists, causing patients with pancreatic insufficiency to
require increasing doses of enzyme supplements. This persistence of fatty acid
malabsorption of enterally coated enzymes may be due to the fact that the
duodenum and upper jejunum in patients with pancreatic insufficiency are often
 acidic environments, so that the expected raise in pH is not achieved and the
 protective coating is not properly dissolved to release the enzyme. D. Graham,
 New England J. Med. 296(23):1314-1317 (1977). Both of these problems have
 been addressed by increasing the dose of lipase administered. Unfortunately, as
 previously noted, high doses of pancreatic enzyme supplement have been found to
 be associated with fibrosing colonopathy. Thus, some embodiments of the
 invention provide nutritional formulas that comprise higher percentages of long
 chain monoglycerides and/or free fatty acids without containing added lipase.
 Some embodiments provide nutritional formulas that comprise an optimized dose of
 lipase, as described herein.
                                            35

[001031     Lipases can be obtained from animal, plant, and many natural or
genetically engineered microorganisms. Many, if not most, commercially available
dietary lipase supplements are derived from animals and are particularly
susceptible to degradation by digestive enzymes. A less frequently used
alternative is microbial lipase, i.e., lipase produced in bacteria or fungus, such as,
e.g., yeast. Microbial lipases retain activity over a wider pH range than animal or
plant lipases, thus eliminating the need for enteric coated tablets. However,
microbial enzymes tend to be degraded by trypsin in the small intestine, thereby
reducing their availability to breakdown triglycerides and esters in the gut. In
certain embodiments, the lipase used in the formulas, methods, or devices of the
invention are bacterial lipases, fungal lipases, or both.
[00104]     The specificity and kinetics of individual lipases can vary significantly.
 Specificity of lipases is controlled by the molecular properties of the enzyme,
 structure of the substrate and factors affecting binding of the enzyme to the
 substrate, Types of specificity include substrate specificity, i.e., a given lipase may
 be more active in breaking down a type of fatty acid than another lipase, and
 positional specificity, which involves preferential hydrolysis of ester bonds in
 positions 1 and/or 3 of the glycerol backbone of a triglyceride.
 [00105]    It has now been determined that lipase produced by Chromobacterium
 viscosum, Pseudomonas fluorescens, Burcholderia cepacia, and Rhizopus oryzae
 have greater specificity for DHA, EPA, and ARA than other lipases, such as lipase
 produced by Candida rugosa, Rhizonucor miehei, Penicilium camembefi,
 Aspergillus niger, and Aspergilis otyzae. As a result, lipase supplements, or lipase
 supplemented nutritional products comprising Chromobacterium viscosum,
                                              36

Pseudomonas fluorescens, Burcholderia cepacia, and/or Rhizopus oryzae will
provide increased hydrolysis of TG-DHA, TG-EPA, and/or TG-ARA. Accordingly,
one aspect of the invention provides lipase supplements or lipase supplemented
nutritional products comprising Chromobacterium viscosum lipase, Pseudomonas
fluorescens lipase, Burcholderia cepacia lipase, and/or Rhizopus oryzae lipase. In
some embodiments, the lipase is Chromobacterium viscosum lipase,
Pseudomonas fluorescens lipase, or Rhizopus oryzae lipase. In certain
embodiments, the lipase is Rhizopus oryzae lipase.
[00106]     Reference to the lipase of certain species, such as Chromobacterium
viscosurn lipase, Pseudononasfluorescens lipase, Burcholderia cepacia lipase,
and Rhizopus otyzae lipase, does not necessarily mean that the lipase was
prepared directly from the native host species. For example, the same lipase could
be produced recombinantly in another host cell.
[00107]     Another aspect of the invention is a method of increasing the absorption
of DHA, EPA, and/or ARA by administering one or more of Chromobacterium
viscosum, Pseudomonas fluorescens, Burcholderia cepacia, and Rhizopus oryzae
lipases, as a dietary supplement, or by pre-hydrolyzing a formula containing DHA,
EPA, and/or ARA with one or more of these enzymes, In some embodiments, the
lipase is Chromobacterium viscosum lipase, Pseudomonas fluorescens lipase, or
Rhizopus oryzae lipase. An additional aspect of the invention provides lipases with
specific activities for DHA, EPA, and/or ARA that are comparable to the specific
activities of one or more of Chromobacterium viscosum, Pseudomonas fluorescens,
Burcholderia cepacia, and Rhizopus oryzae as determined by reverse-phase high
 performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC) and described in Example 1. In
                                            37

some embodiments, the lipase has specific activities for DHA, EPA, and/or ARA
that are comparable to the specific activities of one or more of Chromobacterium
viscosum lipase, Pseudomonas fluorescens lipase, or Rhizopus oryzae lipase.
One embodiment of the invention is a nutritional formula that contains less than
5,000 units of lipase (with units assessed in a standard olive oil assay, such as
described in Pharmaceutical Enzymes: Properties and Assay Methods, R. Ruyssen
and A. Lauwers (Eds) Scientific Publising Company, Ghent, Gelgium (1978)). In
other embodiments, the nutritional formula contains less than 3,000 units of lipase.
 In some embodiments, the nutritional formula contains less than 1,000 units. In
 certain embodiments, the formula containing less than 5,000, less than 3,000, or
 less than 1,000 units of lipase is an infant formula or a medical nutritional formula.
 Immobilized Lipase
 [00108]    Processes for immobilizing enzymes and other proteins to insoluble
 supports are well-known and described in the literature. Immobilization of lipase
 may improve the stability of the enzyme, render it reusable, and allow products to
 be readily separated from the enzyme without contamination by lipase. In some
 embodiments, the lipase is covalently bound to a solid support, however, non
 covalent binding may also be used. Suitable methods of immobilization of lipase
 include, for example, adsorption, ionic binding, covalent binding, cross-linking,
 encapsulation, and entrapment onto hydrophobic or hydrophilic polymeric and
  inorganic matrices. See Y. Ren et al., BMC Biotechnol. 11:63 (2011); V.R. Murty et
 al, Biotechnol. Bioprocess Eng. 7:57-66 (2002). Lipase may be immobilized by
  binding directly to a support material or through a linker. See, e.g., Stark and
  Holmberg, Biotechnol. and Bioeng. 34(7):942-950 (1989).
                                              38

[00109]     Immobilization by adsorption is reversible and typically involves
hydrophobic forces, It is simple and inexpensive, but has the disadvantage of
incomplete immobilization or leaking enzyme from the insoluble support. Examples
of immobilized lipase using this method can be found in E. Lie et al., . Chem.
Technol. and Biotechnol. 50:549-553 (1991) (Candida cylindracea lipase, zeolite
support); M. Basri et al., J. Chem. Technol. and Biotechnol. 59:37-44 (1994)
(Candida rugosa lipase; polymer support); H. Gunnlaughsdottir et al., Enzyme and
Microbiol Tech. 22:360-367 (1998) (Humicola lanuginose lipase; glass beads
support). Supports suitable for immobilization by adsorption include, e.g., ceramic
beads such as Toyonite (Toyo Denka Kogyo Co., Ltd.).
[00110]     Ionic binding is based on electrostatic interactions between the lipase
and differently charged ionic groups on matrices such as e.g., DEAE-cellulose or
DEAE-Sephadex on a solid support. Ionic binding causes minimal change to the
conformation of the lipase and yields immobilized lipase with high activity in most
cases. It should be kept in mind, however, that although the binding force between
the enzyme and the support is stronger than when using adsorption, it is not as
strong as covalent binding and thus, leaking of lipase from the support may occur.
[00111]     Covalent binding is based on covalent bonds between a support material
and a functional group on an amino acid on the surface of the lipase. The
functional groups that may take place in this binding of enzyme to support can be
amino, carboxyl, sulfhydryl, hydroxyl, imidazole, or phenolic groups which are not
essential for the catalytic activity of the lipase. In order to protect the active site,
 immobilization can be carried out in the presence of substrate or a competitive
 inhibitor. A significant advantage to using covalent binding of lipase to a support
                                              39

material is the strength of the bond, i.e., the stability of the immobilization. For an
example of lipase immobilized by covalent binding, see S. Emi et al., European
Polymer Journal 30(5):589-595 (1994). Supports suitable for covalent binding
                            TM (ChiralVision).
include, e.g., Immobead
[00112]     Cross-linking involves joining the lipase to itself to form a three
dimensional structure or joining the lipase to a solid structure using a crosslinking
agent. For example, lipase may be cross-linked to chitosan beads. See S.H.
Chiou et al., Prep. Biochem. Biotechnol. 37(3):265-275 (2007). Immobilization of
lipase by encapsulation usually involves the formation of a porous coating or semi
permeable membrane around the lipase so that the lipase is contained inside the
porous material, but triglycerides and esters may pass freely through.
Immobilization of lipase by entrapment involves restricting the movement of the
enzyme by trapping it in a lattice structure. Alginate beads may be used for this
type of immobilization. I. Bushan et al., J. Bioactive and Compatible Polymers
23(6):552-562 (2008). Synthetic and natural polymers may also be used. See
also, G. Fernandez-Lorente et al., J. Am. Oil Chem. Soc. (published online 14
December 2010) and G. Fernandez-Lorente et al., J. Am. Oil Chem. Soc. 88:1173
 1178 (2011)
[00113]     In certain embodiments, the formulas, methods, and devices of the
invention will utilize lipase that has been crystallized and cross-linked for increased
stability as described in U.S. Patent 6,541,606 (Margolin), either with or without
another form of immobilization, such as encapsulation.
 [00114]    In some embodiments, lipase is immobilized to magnetic nanoparticles
 (MNPs). These MNPs may be coated by linkers or polymers containing amino or
                                               40

epoxy functional groups to which the lipases are reacted. One suitable coating for
MNPs is, e.g., polydopamine. See, e.g., Y. Ren et al., BMC Biotechnology 11:63
(2011). The use of MNPs for lipase immobilization has advantages such as
biocompatibility, supermagnetism, small size, and low toxicity. The magnetic
properties of the nanoparticles facilitate removal of the lipase from solution and also
provides another means for attaching the MNP-lipase to a solid support.
[00115]     In some embodiments, the immobilized lipase is a microbial lipase. In
some embodiments, the immobilized lipase is selected from bacterial lipases. In
some embodiments, the immobilized lipase is one or more lipases selected from
Chromobacterium viscosum, Pseudomonas fluorescens, Burcholderia cepacia, and
Rhizopus oryzae.
[00116]     In certain embodiments, the lipase (whether immobilized or not) is added
to formula for 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 20, 30 minutes or more. The hydrolysis of LC-PUFA
triglycerides and esters is measured by RP-HPLC. In certain embodiments, the
percent hydrolysis of LC-PUFA triglycerides and esters is 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%,
50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, or 100% by 30 minutes. In embodiments, the percent
 hydrolysis of LC-PUFA triglycerides and esters is 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%,
70%, 80%, 90%, or 100% by 20 minutes. In embodiments, the percent hydrolysis
of LC-PUFA triglycerides and esters is 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%,
 80%, 90%, or 100% by 10 minutes. In certain embodiments, the lipase is Rhizopus
 oryzae lipase.
                                            41

Devigcesornprisinqgmmobiged_ Lipas?
[00117]     According to various embodiments, the present disclosure provides
devices and methods for preparing nutritional products. The devices and methods
can be used to expose infant formula or other nutritional products to lipases prior to
consumption. The lipases will accordingly breakdown fats and oils with subsequent
release of free fatty acids and monoglycerides. The devices and methods will allow
convenient means for preparing formula or other nutritional products. In some
embodiments, the devices and methods allow infants or others who consume the
products to avoid consuming exogenous lipase. In some embodiments, the
devices and methods allow for production of formulas that contain monoglycerides
and/or free fatty acids but do not contain any significant amount of lipase (as
determined by ELISA).
[00118]     Figs. 1, 2A-2C, 3A-3C, 4A-4B, 5A-5B, 9A-9C, I0A-1OC, 11A-11C, 12,
 13A-13B, 14, 15, 16, 17A-17B, 18, 19, 20, and 21 illustrate devices according to
various embodiments of the present disclosure. As shown in Fig. 1, devices 100 of
the present disclosure can include a container 110 configured to hold infant formula
 120 or other liquid nutritional products. As described in detail below, the container
 110 can include lipases that are immobilized such that formula 120 that is fed to the
 infant through a nasogastric tube 114 or other feeding mechanism (e.g., a baby
 bottle) does not contain lipases in any appreciable amount. For example, the
 lipases can be immobilized on or in structures 150 found along the wall or
 otherwise within the container such that the lipases are in fluid contact with formula
 120 within the container. Further, as is discussed with reference to various
 embodiments below, formula can be added to the container 110, in various ways to
                                            42

allow enzymatic treatment of lipases within the container 110. For example, fluid
can be fed through a tube 112 or poured into the container, and can be
subsequently passed through a nasogastric tube or other device for feeding.
[00119]     Throughout this disclosure, the devices and methods will be referred to
for use in treating or preparing nutritional formula, such as, e.g., infant formula and
medical nutritional formula. It will be appreciated that the devices and methods can
be used to treat or prepare any type of nutritional formula for which it may be
beneficial to provide lipase treatment prior to consumption. Such products can
include any nutritional formula to be consumed by someone with pancreatic
insufficiency or other reduced ability to hydrolyze long-chain triglycerides or
esterified long-chain PUFAs.
[00120]     Figs. 2A-2C and 3A-3C illustrate more detailed devices, according to
various embodiments. As shown, the devices 200-202, 300-302 can include a
container 210, 310 for holding liquid formula. The container 210, 310 can include a
variety of different types and configurations. For example, the container 210, 310
can include a glass or plastic jar or vial, a bag (e.g, silicone or other flexible material
 like an IV saline bag), a cylindrical container such as a syringe barrel, or other
 container that is sized and shaped to hold a desired amount of formula or other
 product.
 [00121]    As noted, the devices of the present disclosure can allow formula to be
 exposed to lipases to obtain the desired enzymatic effects, while allowing the
 formula to then be conveniently consumed without consuming lipases. Accordingly,
 in various embodiments, lipases are immobilized within the container 210, 310 such
 that, when the formula is removed (e.g., through a nasogastric tube, nipple for a.
                                             43

baby bottle, or by transferring the formula to another container), the lipases remain
in the container 210, 310 or can be removed from the formula prior to consumption,
In other embodiments, lipases are immobilized within the container 210, 310, e.g.,
on removable solid supports, such that the lipases can be easily removed from the
container, while leaving the formula in the container for later consumption.
[00122]     Figs. 2A-2C show one configuration for the container 210, along with
certain embodiments for immobilizing lipases within the container 210. As noted,
the container 210 can include a variety of different materials, sizes and shapes. In
addition, the container 210 can include one or more access ports 220, 230 for
controlling flow of formula 260 into and out of the container.
[00123]     Lipases can be immobilized within the container 210 in a variety of ways.
 For example, lipases can be immobilized or contained within structures 250, 252
 located inside the container 210 (Figs. 2A and 2C). Additionally, or alternatively,
 lipases 251 can be immobilized on or contained within the wall of the container 210
 (Fig. 2B). Accordingly, as formula 260 is placed inside the container, the formula
260 comes into contact with the lipases to produce the desired enzymatic effects.
 [00124]    As noted, lipases can be immobilized within the container by binding the
 lipases to structures 250, 252 within the container and/or to walls 251 of the
 container. The structures within the container can have a variety of configurations.
 For example, in certain embodiments, the structures can include beads, balls, or
 any other structure that may themselves be mobile within the container such that
 the structures flow within the formula. For example, as shown in Fig. 4A, the
 structures 250 can include beads or balls having a surface wall 256 to which
 lipases 257 can be bond. Further, it will be understood that the structures 250, 252
                                           44

can have a variety of different shapes or configurations (e.g., cuboid, ovoid, rod
like).
[00125]     The structures 250, 252 and/or configuration of the wall of container 210
can be configured to provide a desired surface area such that formula is able to
come in contact with a sufficient amount of lipase during an acceptable time period.
For example, the structures 250, 252 can include numerous beads 250 (Fig. 2A) or
rod-like structures 252 (Fig. 2C) to provide a high surface area for binding a
sufficient amount of lipase. Alternatively, if longer time periods are available to
incubate the formula with the lipases before consumption and/or lipases with high
enzymatic activity are used, smaller amounts of lipase may be suitable.
[00126]      In various embodiments, the structures 250, 252 and/or container are
constructed such that, as formula 260 is removed from the container for
consumption or storage, the lipase is not kept within the formula 260. For example,
the beads 250 or rod-like structures can be sized such that they will not pass
through a relatively small access port 230. Alternatively, or additionally, the
structures can be attached to the container wall and/or the container can include a
screen or filter that is sized to prevent movement of the structures with the formula
260. Further, the structures 250, 252 can have other properties that facilitate their
 separation from formula. For example, the structures 250 can be formed of
 magnetic beads that can be removed by binding to a magnetic filter.
 [00127]     In some embodiments, rather than immobilizing lipases by attachment to
 structures within the container 210 and/or container wall, the lipases 257' are
 contained within the structures 250, 252 and/or the container wall 251. Fig. 4B
 illustrates one such an embodiment. As shown, the structures 250' can include
                                           45

beads or other shapes having a wall 256'. The wall may be formed of a semi
permeable materials that allows ingress and egress of formula 260 but not lipases
257'. Such encapsulation may similarly be used for other structures (e.g., 252)
and/or for the container wall such that the surface of the wall has a semi-permeable
material, within which lipases may be contained.
[00128]     The container may similarly have surface configurations that provide for
increased amounts of lipase, and/or increased contact of lipases with the formula
260. For example, the wall of the container may have ridges or other surface
modifications to increase the surface area. Further, rather than including a single
open space, the container may include variations in the flow path, e.g., a long
winding path to allow prolonged or longer exposure to lipases and/or a collection of
channels or tubes to which lipases are immobilized and through which formula may
flow. See, e.g., Fig. 1, element 150 and Fig. 21, element 2101.
[00129]     In certain embodiments, the container may be manufactured and
prepackaged with lipases in any of the embodiments described herein. During use,
the container may be opened, and formula may be placed into the container to
contact the lipases for a sufficient time to produce the desired enzymatic effects. In
other embodiments, structures such as beads 250 or rod-like structures have
 lipases immobilized to their surfaces or contained/encapsulated within can be
 packaged and distributed, and those structures can be placed into a separate
 container containing formula. In some embodiments, it may be beneficial to shake
 or agitate the container comprising immobilized lipase and formula for a period of
time,
                                            46

[00130]    As noted, formula 260 can be placed into the container 210 via various
access ports. For example, the container can include a top access port 220 and/or
a bottom access port 230. The ports 220, 230 can be used for ingress and egress
of formula respectively. In addition, a single port can be used, or multiple ports may
be used. The ports can comprise a structure configured to engage other devices
that may be used for feeding or transfer of fluids. For example, the ports can
include a connector such as a luer-lock connection, threads, and/or a conduit or
tube that can engage a nasogastric tube. In addition, the ports can be configured
to engage a baby bottle, baby bottle nipple, or any other structure to facilitate
transfer of fluid to another container or to assist in feeding. Further, one or both
ports 220, 230 can include a valve 140 (Fig. 1), 240 (Fig. 2A) or other fluid flow
control mechanism.
[00131]    Figs. 3A-3C illustrate devices of the present disclosure, according to
certain embodiments. As shown, the devices 300-302 include a container 310 for
receiving formula 260. In addition, the container 310 can include a cap 322 or
other closure device, such as a threaded top for a jar or bottle. Similar to the
embodiments shown in Figs. 2A-2C, the devices can include structures 350, 351,
351', and 353 that include lipases immobilized to their surfaces and/or
encapsulated therein.
[00132]    The embodiments of Figs. 3A-3C can provide for more rapid separation
of formula from the structures containing lipases. For example, as shown in Fig.
3A, the rod-like structures 350 can contain lipases, and after enzymatic treatment of
formula, the cap 322 can be removed to simultaneously remove the structures 350
 and lipases. Further, the cap 322 can be replaced with another cap, bottle nipple,
                                            47

or other fluid connection. Similarly, structures having other configurations, like the
balls or beads 351, 351 (Fig. 3B), can be sized for easy removal from the formula
260. For example, as shown, beads 351, 351' are sized such that they can be
easily removed manually or by filtration. Further, the container 310 can provide
lipases that are immobilized to or contained within its inner surface 353, and after
enzymatic treatment, formula 260 can be transferred to another container, or
consumed by replacing the cap 322 with a bottle nipple or other connection to a
feeding system.
[00133]     Alternatively, or additionally, the structures 350, 351, 351' can have a
permeable outer wall with additional components providing immobilized lipases
contained therein. For example, structure 351' (Fig. 3B), illustrates one embodiment
wherein the structure 351' has a permeable outer wall enclosing numbers beads
250. The outer wall can include a mesh or other configuration that allows for easy
movement of formula into and out of the structure 351'to provide contact with the
beads 250. Further, the beads can provide lipases, which can be immobilized to
their surfaces or encapsulated therein, as described in various embodiments
above.
[00134]     As noted above, the structures containing lipases can be manufactured
and distributed as prepackaged components along with the container 310.
Alternatively, or additionally, the structures can be packaged and distributed
separately from the container. For example, a cap 322 containing rod-like
structures 350 or beads 351, 351', or otherwise having lipase contained therein or
immobilized to it, can be manufactured and distributed. The cap may be configured
                                              48

for connection with standard baby bottles, water bottles, or other container or
device that may contain formula.
[00135]     In other embodiments, lipases may be provided such that the lipases
contact formula as the formula is placed into a container and/or during feeding or
removal from a container. For example, Fig. 5A illustrates one device 500,
according to exemplary embodiments. The device 500 can include a standard
bottle nipple, and lipases can be immobilized to an inner surface 510 of the nipple
rim or nipple itself. As such, formula will come into contact with the lipases during
normal use. Similarly, lipases can be contained in or on other structures that may
be used for feeding, such as a fluid tube of a nasogastric feeding device.
[00136]     Alternatively, the lipases can be provided in a separate element
configured to allow contact of formula with the lipases during normal fluid flow. For
example, in one embodiment, the lipases can be contained within a housing 520
configured for engagement with a bottle closure such as a nipple (Fig. 5A) or a
bottle cap/top (Fig. 5B). The housing 520 can include a permeable walls that
allows formula to flow through its volume and contact lipases provided therein.
 [00137]    The lipases contained within the housing 520 can be provided in various
forms. For example, in some embodiments, the lipases are immobilized on beads
 550 within the housing 520 by bonding or encapsulation, as described previously.
 Further, the housing 520 can include an open mesh or other configuration that
 allows formula to flow through it. For example, with the bottle configuration shown
 in Fig. 5A, an open mesh or flow path through housing 520 will allow formula to
 contact lipases as the formula exits a bottle during feeding. Alternatively, as shown
 in Fig. 5B, formula can be poured into or out of the top 530 of the housing to allow
                                            49

contact of formula with lipases during filling or emptying of the container 310. The
top 530 and/or any other portion of the housing 520 can be formed of a variety of
materials. For example, the housing 520 can be formed of a membrane that allows
controlled fluid flow. Further, the top 530 may be formed of a semi-permeable
membrane that allows flow of liquid (formula) therethrough, but does not allow
passage of lipases. Accordingly, the membrane forming the top 530 can serve to
 immobilize the lipases within the container 310 without otherwise binding or
 immobilizing the lipases within the container 310.
 [00138]     In various embodiments, the devices described above can include
 modifications to improve or otherwise control lipase activity. For example, the
 containers 110. 210, 310 can include stirring systems to allow continuous
 movement of formula during an incubation period, thereby allowing the lipases to
 come into contact with fatty acids found throughout the fluid volume. Further, the
 devices can include systems to control temperature to improve or control lipase
 activity.
 [00139]     Certain embodiments of the invention provide a container containing
 nutritional formula and a lipase. In some embodiments, the lipase is in contact with
 the nutritional formula in the container. In other embodiments, the lipase and the
 nutritional formula are not in contact in the container. In some embodiments, the
 nutritional formula and the lipase are contained in separate compartments within
 the container. In some embodiments, the nutritional formula is in dry form. In some
 embodiments, the nutritional formula is in liquid form. In some embodiments, the
  lipase is brought into contact with the nutritional formula by releasing the lipase into
 the compartment containing the nutritional formula. In some embodiments, the
                                             50

lipase is brought into contact with the nutritional formula by transferring the lipase
and the nutritional formula into another container (e.g., by emptying the lipase
compartment and the nutritional formula compartment into the other container). In
some embodiments, liquid is added to the other container before or after
transferring the lipase and the nutritional formula into the other container.
[00140]     The devices according to the present disclosure can have a number of
different shapes and/or configurations. For example, Figs. 9A-9C, 10A-10C, 11A
 11C, 12, 13A-13B, 14, 15, 16, 17A-17B, 18, 19, 20, 21 illustrate various additional
shapes and configurations. In each of the configurations described with respect to
those figures, lipases may be immobilized using any of the methods described
above (e.g., by immobilizing lipases on structures such as beads within a device,
and/or by immobilizing lipases within or on a wall or other surface of a device).
 Further, the specific configuration may be selected to provide a variety of different
features, such as surface area, volume, amount of lipases, and/or exposure time of
 materials to enzymes.
 [00141]    The devices illustrated in Figs. 9A-9C, 10A-1OC, 11A-11C, 12, 13A-13B,
 14, 15, 16, 17A-17B, 18, 19, 20, 21 can be configured to allow contact of lipases in
 a variety of ways. For example, in various embodiments, a portion or all of the
 device can be inserted within a container that includes formula in order to allow
 contact between the formula and lipases. In other embodiments, the device is
 configured for in-line treatment of formula.
 [00142]    Figs. 9A-9C illustrate various configurations for devices that may be
 placed within a container to treat formula. As shown, the device 900, 920 (Figs. 9A
 and 9C) can have a variety of different shapes formed of an outer wall 901, 901
                                             51

that encloses lipases. As indicated above, the lipases 902 can be immobilized in a
variety of different ways, including by attachment to beads. Furthermore, the
devices 910 (Fig. 9B) can include more than one pocket or opening 903 formed in
one or more walls 901'. The specific configuration, number of pockets or openings,
as well as amount of lipase and/or volume of the device may be varied depending
on the intended use and/or to control the rate of lipase activity.
[00143]     In certain embodiments, the device may be configured to allow a change
in its size and or shape. For example, Figs. 1OA-1 0C illustrate a device 1000,
which may be compressed, e.g., for storage in a container 1001 before use. When
desired, the container 1001 can be opened, and the wall 1003 of the device can be
expanded to produce a desired ratio of lipase volume 1002 to container volume. In
some embodiments, the device 1000 includes a coil or spring 1004 to provide
structural support and/or to help the device maintain a desired shape and/or
volume.
[00144]      In some embodiments, the device can include a rod-like extension to
facilitate placement and removal of lipase within a volume of formula. For example,
 Figs. 11A-11C, 12, 13A-13B, 14, and 15 illustrate various exemplary configurations
for devices with a rod-like extension. As shown, the device 1100, 1100', 1100",
 1200, 1300, 1400, 1500 can include either one or multiple pockets or openings
 1101, 1201, 1301, 1401, 1501 positioned in various configurations near a distal
 region of the rod-like extension 1102, 1202, 1302, 1402, 1502. In some
embodiments, as shown for example, in Figs. 13A-13B, the orientation of the
 pockets or openings 1301 can be adjustable, e.g., to allow insertion within a narrow
 opening during use and/or to minimize storage space.
                                            52

[00145]     In various embodiments, lipase may be attached to a portion of a cap or
closure for a bottle or jar, such that when the cap or closure is placed on the bottle
or jar, the lipase may contact fluids contained within the bottle or jar. For example,
any of the devices shown herein may be attached to a surface of a cap or closure
to allow contact with formula container in a bottle or jar. Various configurations of
devices 1600, 1700, 1800, 1900, 2000 including lipase attached to a cap or closure
1602, 1702, 1802, 1902, 2002 are illustrated in Figs. 16, 17A-17B, 18, 19, and 20.
As shown, the lipases can be contained within pockets or openings 1601, 1705,
1805, 1901, 2001 having a variety of shapes or configurations. Further, in some
embodiments, the cap or closure 1902, 2002 can include an opening 1910, 2010
for inserting or removing fluid from a container, and such openings 1910, 2010 can
include a connector for a fluid tube, e.g., a luer-type connector.
[00146]     In some embodiments, it may be desirable to treat formula as the formula
flows through a tube (e.g., during feeding, as shown in Fig. 1, or during transfer
from one container to another). Fig. 21 illustrates another device 2100 for in-line
treatment of lipases. The device 2100 can include a pocket or opening 2101
containing lipases, which may be immobilized, as discussed above. Further, the
pocket or opening 2101 may have a tortuous or curved path to allow for longer
contact times between the lipases and formula. In addition, the device 2100 may
 include openings 2110 at both ends to allow connection to tubes or conduits for
 ingress and egress of formula.
 [00147]     In various embodiments, the devices may include a material that acts as
 a screen or mesh to prevent lipases from entering the formula to be ingested by a
 patient. For example, the devices shown in Figs. 19 and 21 can include one or
                                            53

more meshes or screens 1906, 2106 to prevent lipases immobilized on beads or
other structures from moving into formula to be ingested.
[00148]     In some embodiments, lipases can be immobilized within or on a
component of a container such that the lipases are not in contact with formula until
further steps are taken. For example, in one embodiment, lipases may be contained
within or on a portion of a cap or closure, and the cap or closure may include a
mechanism for releasing immobilized lipases into the container. For example,
lipases may be contained on or within beads or other structures (see, e.g., element
 1805 in Fig. 18), that are further attached to or contained within the cap; and when
desired, the lipases may be dropped into the container (e.g., by twisting the cap or
removing a barrier/attachment mechanism). Similarly, lipases may be attached to
or contained with a wall of the container or other structure and immobilized on
beads or other materials, and the lipases can be allowed to contact formula only
when desired (e.g., by releasing lipases into the container or removing a barrier
over the lipases).
 [00149]    Fig. 6A is a photograph of a vial containing Rhizopus oryzae lipase
 immobilized on polymer beads. The immobilized lipase is in dry granular form
which may be added to the container or chamber of a device according to the
 invention, such as the device depicted in Figs. 6B-D. The immobilized lipase may
 be trapped in the chamber of the device, while still allowing the flow of formula
 through and out of the chamber by simply providing a filter at the egress end of the
 chamber that contains pores sufficiently large to allow formula to pass but retains
 the immobilized lipase within the chamber. Alternatively, lipase may be
 immobilized by, e.g., coating the inner channels or chamber of the device so that
                                            54

the formula is exposed to the lipase as it passes through the chamber. The
immobilized lipase in such a device may be used for continuous feeding for
extended periods because of the increased stability and reusability of the lipase.
Nutritional Formulas
[00150]      Certain embodiments of the invention provide nutritional formulas. In
some embodiments, the nutritional formula is an infant formula. In some
embodiments, the nutritional formula is a medical nutritional formula. In some
embodiments, a nutritional formula is exposed to lipase prior to ingestion. In some
embodiments, this exposure allows pre-hydrolysis of at least some lipids in the
 nutritional formula. Thus, in some embodiments, a nutritional formula is an "as-fed"
formula, i.e., the liquid formula as composed just prior to ingestion by the subject,
which differs in composition from the formula as sold by the manufacturer. The
term "nutritional formula" does not encompass compositions existing within the
 body of a subject after ingestion.
 [00151]     In some embodiments, the nutritional formula comprises long-chain fatty
 acids. In some embodiments, the nutritional formula comprises one or more LC
 PUFAs, such as DHA, ARA, and EPA. In some embodiments, the nutritional
 formula comprises DHA, In some embodiments, the nutritional formula comprises
 ARA. In some embodiments, the nutritional formula comprises DHA and ARA. In
 some embodiments, the nutritional formula comprises DHA, ARA, and EPA.
 [00152]     In some embodiments, more than 5% of the total long-chain fatty acids in
 the nutritional formula are in the form of monoglycerides and/or free fatty acids. In
 some embodiments, more than 5% of the total LC-PUFA in the nutritional formula is
                                            55

in the form of monoglycerides and/or free fatty acids. In some embodiments, more
than 5% of the DHA is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid. In
some embodiments, more than 5% of the ARA is in the form of a monoglyceride
and/or a free fatty acid. In some embodiments, more than 5% of the EPA is in the
form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid.
[00153]     In some embodiments, more than 10%, more than 15%, more than 20%,
more than 30%, more than 40%, more than 50%, more than 60%, more than 70%,
more than 80%, more than 85%, more than 90%, more than 95%, or 100% of the
total long-chain fatty acids in the nutritional formula are in the form of
monoglycerides and/or free fatty acids. In some embodiments, more than 10%,
more than 15%, more than 20%, more than 30%, more than 40%, more than 50%,
more than 60%, more than 70%, more than 80%, more than 85%, more than 90%,
more than 95%, or 100% of the total LC-PUFA in the nutritional formula is in the
form of monoglycerides and/or free fatty acids. In some embodiments, more than
 10%, more than 15%, more than 20%, more than 30%, more than 40%, more than
50%, more than 60%, more than 70%, more than 80%, more than 85%, more than
90%, more than 95%, or 100% of the DHA is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or
a free fatty acid. In some embodiments, more than 10%, more than 15%, more
than 20%, more than 30%, more than 40%, more than 50%, more than 60%, more
than 70%, more than 80%, more than 85%, more than 90%, more than 95%, or
 100% of the ARA is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid. In some
embodiments, more than 10%, more than 15%, more than 20%, more than 30%,
 more than 40%, more than 50%, more than 60%, more than 70%, more than 80%,
 more than 85%, more than 90%, more than 95%, or 100% of the EPA is in the form
of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid. In some embodiments, more than 10%,
                                             56

more than 15%, more than 20%, more than 30%, more than 40%, more than 50%,
more than 60%, more than 70%, more than 80%, more than 85%, more than 90%,
more than 95%, or 100% of both the DHA and the ARA is in the form of a
monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid. In a particular embodiment, more than 90%
of both the DHA and the ARA is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty
acid. In a particular embodiment, more than 95% of both the DHA and the ARA is
in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid.
[00154]     In some embodiments, at least 10%, at least 15%, at least 20%, at least
30%, at least 40%, at least 50%, at least 60%, at least 70%, at least 80%, at least
85%, at least 90%, at least 95%, or 100% of the total long-chain fatty acids in the
nutritional formula are in the form of monoglycerides and/or free fatty acids. In
some embodiments, at least 10%, at least 15%, at least 20%, at least 30%, at least
40%, at least 50%, at least 60%, at least 70%, at least 80%, at least 85%, at least
90%, at least 95%, or 100% of the total LC-PUFA in the nutritional formula is in the
form of monoglycerides and/or free fatty acids. In some embodiments, at least
10%, at least 15%, at least 20%, at least 30%, at least 40%, at least 50%, at least
60%, at least 70%, at least 80%, at least 85%, at least 90%, at least 95%, or 100%
of the DHA is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid. In some
embodiments, at least 10%, at least 15%, at least 20%, at least 30%, at least 40%,
at least 50%, at least 60%, at least 70%, at least 80%, at least 85%, at least 90%,
at least 95%, or 100% of the ARA is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free
fatty acid. In some embodiments, at least 10%, at least 15%, at least 20%, at least
30%, at least 40%, at least 50%, at least 60%, at least 70%, at least 80%, at least
85%, at least 90%, at least 95%, or 100% of the EPA is in the form of a
 monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid. In some embodiments, at least 10%, at
                                          57

least 15%, at least 20%, at least 30%, at least 40%, at least 50%, at least 60%, at
least 70%, at least 80%, at least 85%, at least 90%, at least 95%, or 100% of both
the DHA and the ARA is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid. In
a particular embodiment, at least 90% of both the DHA and the ARA is in the form
of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid. In a particular embodiment, at least
95% of both the DHA and the ARA is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free
fatty acid.
 [00155]     In some embodiments of the invention, the approximate serving size of a
 nutritional formula of the invention is about 100-110 mL for premature infant
formula, 90-150 mL (e.g., 148 mL) for term infant formula, 230-500 mL (e.g., 235
 250 mL) for enteral feeds, and 230-250 mL for child formulas and adult formulas.
 In some embodiments, each serving contains about 10-35 mg of ARA free fatty
 acids and monoglycerides (as would be obtained from complete hydrolysis of TG
ARA in currently available preterm and term infant formulas) or about 40-50 mg of
ARA free fatty acids and monoglycerides (as would be obtained from complete
 hydrolysis of TG-ARA in a currently available adult formula). In some
 embodiments, each serving contains about 7-20 mg of DHA free fatty acids and
 monoglycerides (as would be obtained from complete hydrolysis of TG-DHA in
 currently available preterm and term infant formulas) or about 10-40 mg of DHA
 free fatty acids and monoglycerides (as would be obtained from complete
 hydrolysis of TG-DHA in currently available child and adult formulas). In some
 embodiments, an adult serving of 230-250 mL contains about 1,100 mg of EPA free
 fatty acids and monoglycerides and about 240 mg of DHA free fatty acids and
 monoglycerides (as would be obtained from complete hydrolysis of TG-EPA and
 TG-DHA in some currently available adult formula, such as ProSure*      In some
                                            58

embodiments of the invention, however, the ability to pre-hydrolyze TG-LCPUFAs
before ingestion allows formula to be made with higher levels of LC-PUFAs than in
currently available formulas. Accordingly, in some embodiments the amount of free
fatty acids and/or monoglycerides of ARA and/or DHA exceeds the amounts that
could be obtained from complete hydrolysis of TG-LCPUFAs in currently available
formulas. In some embodiments, a serving of a nutritional formula of the invention
contains 50-100 mg of LC-PUFA free fatty acids and/or monoglycerides. In some
embodiments, a serving of a nutritional formula of the invention contains 100-200
mg of LC-PUFA free fatty acids and/or monoglycerides. In some embodiments, a
serving of a nutritional formula of the invention contains 200-300 mg of LC-PUFA
free fatty acids and/or monoglycerides. In some embodiments, a serving of a
nutritional formula of the invention contains 250-500 mg of LC-PUFA free fatty
acids and/or monoglycerides. In some embodiments, a serving of a nutritional
formula of the invention contains 500-1000 mg of LC-PUFA free fatty acids and/or
 monoglycerides. In some embodiments, a serving of a nutritional formula of the
 invention contains 1-2 grams of LC-PUFA free fatty acids and/or monoglycerides.
 In some embodiments, a serving of a nutritional formula of the invention contains 2
 3 grams of LC-PUFA free fatty acids and/or monoglycerides.
 [00156]    In some embodiments, the nutritional formula comprises fats,
 carbohydrates, and proteins (or amino acids). In some embodiments, an infant
 formula of the invention comprises one, more than one, or all of the following:
 nonfat milk, lactose, vegetable oil (e.g., one or more of palm olein, coconut, soy,
 and high oleic sunflower oils), whey protein concentrate, sugars, LC-PUFAs,
 vitamins, and minerals. In some embodiments, the nutritional formula comprises
 fats composed of medium-chain fatty acids and fats composed of long-chain fatty
                                             59

acids. In some embodiments, the nutritional formula comprises fats composed of
n-6 fatty acids and fats composed of n-3 fatty acids. In some embodiments, the
nutritional formula comprises LA and ALA.
[00157]      In some embodiments, a nutritional formula of the invention does not
comprise added lipase. In some embodiments, a device and/or a method of the
present invention is used to expose a nutritional formula to a lipase, but the
nutritional formula is separated from the lipase before feeding, such that the as-fed
nutritional formula does not comprise added lipase. A nutritional formula that does
not comprise added lipase refers to a formula in which lipase is not detectable or is
present only at very low levels, due, e.g., to leaching of immobilized lipase from a
solid support into the formula. In some embodiments, a nutritional formula
comprises no more than 0.02% (w/w) lipase, no more than 0.01% (w/w) lipase, no
 more than 0.005% (w/w) lipase, no more than 0.002% (w/w) lipase, no more than
 0.001% (w/w) lipase, no more than 0.0005% (w/w) lipase, no more than 0.0002%
 (w/w) lipase, or no more than 0.0001% (w/w) lipase. In some embodiments, a
 nutritional formula comprises less than 0.02% (w/w) lipase, less than 0.01% (w/w)
 lipase, less than 0.005% (w/w) lipase, less than 0.002% (w/w) lipase, less than
 0.001% (w/w) lipase, less than 0.0005% (w/w) lipase, less than 0.0002% (w/w)
 lipase, or less than 0.0001% (w/w) lipase.
 [00158]      In some embodiments, the nutritional formula comprises a lipase. In
 some embodiments, the lipase is selected from Chromobacterium viscosum lipase,
 Pseudomonas fluorescens lipase, Burcholderia cepacia lipase, and Rhizopus
 oryzae lipase. In some embodiments, the lipase is selected from Chromobacterium
 viscosum lipase, Pseudomonas fluorescens lipase, and Rhizopus oryzae lipase. In
                                            60

some embodiments, the lipase is Chromobacterium viscosum lipase. In some
embodiments, the lipase is Pseudomonas fluorescens lipase. In some
embodiments, the lipase is Rhizopus oryzae lipase.
[00159]      In some embodiments, a serving of the nutritional formula contains less
than 5,000 units of lipase (with units assessed in a standard olive assay, such as
described in Pharmaceutical Enzymes: Properties and Assay Methods, R.Ruyssen
and A. Lauwers (Eds) Scientific Publishing Company, Ghent, Belgium (1978)). In
other embodiments, a serving of the nutritional formula contains less than 3,000
units of lipase. In some embodiments, a serving of the nutritional formula contains
less than 1,000 units. In certain embodiments, the formula containing less than
5,000, less than 3,000, or less than 1,000 units of lipase per serving is an infant
formula or a medical nutritional formula.
 [00160]      In some embodiments, the nutritional formula contains 0.01 mg to 1 gram
 of lipase per gram of total fat (whether in free fatty acid, monoglyceride, ester, or
triglyceride form) in the nutritional formula. In some embodiments, the nutritional
 formula contains 0.1 to 500 mg of lipase per gram of total fat in the nutritional
 formula. In some embodiments, the nutritional formula contains 0.1 to 250 mg of
 lipase per gram of total fat in the nutritional formula. In some embodiments, the
 nutritional formula contains 0.1 to 200 mg of lipase per gram of total fat in the
 nutritional formula. In some embodiments, the nutritional formula contains 0.1 to
 150 mg of lipase per gram of total fat in the nutritional formula. In some
 embodiments, the nutritional formula contains 0 1 to 100 mg of lipase per gram of
 total fat in the nutritional formula. In some embodiments, the nutritional formula
 contains 0.1 to 50 mg of lipase per gram of total fat in the nutritional formula. In
                                              61

some embodiments, the nutritional formula contains 1 to 50 mg of lipase per gram
of total fat in the nutritional formula. In some embodiments, the nutritional formula
contains 25 to 75 mg of lipase per gram of total fat in the nutritional formula. In
some embodiments, the nutritional formula contains 1 to 100 mg of lipase per gram
of total fat in the nutritional formula. In some embodiments, the nutritional formula
contains no more than 50 mg of lipase per gram of total fat in the nutritional
formula.
[00161]      In some embodiments, the nutritional formula contains 0.001 to 10 mg of
lipase per milligram of total LC-PUFA (whether in free fatty acid, monoglyceride,
ester, or triglyceride form) in the nutritional formula. In some embodiments, the
nutritional formula contains 0.001 to 5 mg of lipase per milligram of total LC-PUFA
in the nutritional formula. In some embodiments, the nutritional formula contains
0.001 to 3 mg of lipase per milligram of total LC-PUFA in the nutritional formula. In
some embodiments, the nutritional formula contains 0.001 to 1 mg of lipase per
milligram of total LC-PUFA in the nutritional formula. In some embodiments, the
nutritional formula contains 0.001 to 0.5 mg of lipase per milligram of total LC-PUFA
in the nutritional formula. In some embodiments, the nutritional formula contains
0.001 to 01 mg of lipase per milligram of total LC-PUFA in the nutritional formula.
 In some embodiments, the nutritional formula contains 0.001 to 0.05 mg of lipase
per milligram of total LC-PUFA in the nutritional formula. In some embodiments,
the nutritional formula contains 0.01 to 0.1 mg of lipase per milligram of total LC
 PUFA in the nutritional formula. In some embodiments, the nutritional formula
contains 0.02 to 0.08 mg of lipase per milligram of total LC-PUFA in the nutritional
formula. In some embodiments, the nutritional formula contains 0.04 to 0.06 mg of
 lipase per milligram of total LC-PUFA in the nutritional formula. In some
                                              62

embodiments, the nutritional formula contains no more than 0.1 mg of lipase per
milligram of total LC-PUFA in the nutritional formula.
[00162]      In some embodiments, the nutritional formula contains 0.001 to 10 mg of
lipase per milligram of total DHA (whether in free fatty acid, monoglyceride, ester,
or triglyceride form) in the nutritional formula. In some embodiments, the nutritional
formula contains 0.001 to 5 mg of lipase per milligram of total DHA in the nutritional
formula. In some embodiments, the nutritional formula contains 0.001 to 3 mg of
lipase per milligram of total DHA in the nutritional formula. In some embodiments,
the nutritional formula contains 0.001 to I mg of lipase per milligram of total DHA in
the nutritional formula. In some embodiments, the nutritional formula contains
0.001 to 0.5 mg of lipase per milligram of total DHA in the nutritional formula. In
some embodiments, the nutritional formula contains 0.001 to 0.1 mg of lipase per
milligram of total DHA in the nutritional formula. In some embodiments, the
nutritional formula contains 0.001 to 0.05 mg of lipase per milligram of total DHA in
the nutritional formula. In some embodiments, the nutritional formula contains 0.01
to 0.1 mg of lipase per milligram of total DHA in the nutritional formula. In some
embodiments, the nutritional formula contains 0.02 to 0.08 mg of lipase per
 milligram of total DHA in the nutritional formula. In some embodiments, the
 nutritional formula contains 0.04 to 0.06 mg of lipase per milligram of total DHA in
the nutritional formula.
 [00163]      In some embodiments, the nutritional formula contains 0.001 to 10 mg of
 lipase per milligram of total ARA (whether in free fatty acid, monoglyceride, ester, or
 triglyceride form) in the nutritional formula. In some embodiments, the nutritional
 formula contains 0.001 to 5 mg of lipase per milligram of total ARA in the nutritional
                                             63

formula. In some embodiments, the nutritional formula contains 0.001 to 3 mg of
lipase per milligram of total ARA in the nutritional formula. In some embodiments,
the nutritional formula contains 0.001 to 1 mg of lipase per milligram of total ARA in
the nutritional formula. In some embodiments, the nutritional formula contains
0.001 to 0.5 mg of lipase per milligram of total ARA in the nutritional formula. In
some embodiments, the nutritional formula contains 0.001 to 0.1 mg of lipase per
milligram of total ARA in the nutritional formula. In some embodiments, the
nutritional formula contains 0.001 to 0.05 mg of lipase per milligram of total ARA in
the nutritional formula. In some embodiments, the nutritional formula contains 0.01
to 0.1 mg of lipase per milligram of total ARA in the nutritional formula. In some
embodiments, the nutritional formula contains 0.02 to 0.08 mg of lipase per
 milligram of total ARA in the nutritional formula. In some embodiments, the
 nutritional formula contains 0.04 to 0.06 mg of lipase per milligram of total ARA in
the nutritional formula.
 [00164]     In some embodiments, the nutritional formula contains 0.001 to 10 mg of
 lipase per milligram of total EPA (whether in free fatty acid, monoglyceride, ester, or
 triglyceride form) in the nutritional formula. In some embodiments, the nutritional
 formula contains 0.001 to 5 mg of lipase per milligram of total EPA in the nutritional
 formula. In some embodiments, the nutritional formula contains 0.001 to 3 mg of
 lipase per milligram of total EPA in the nutritional formula. In some embodiments,
 the nutritional formula contains 0.001 to I mg of lipase per milligram of total EPA in
 the nutritional formula. In some embodiments, the nutritional formula contains
 0.001 to 0.5 mg of lipase per milligram of total EPA in the nutritional formula. In
 some embodiments, the nutritional formula contains 0.001 to 0.1 mg of lipase per
 milligram of total EPA in the nutritional formula. In some embodiments, the
                                              64

nutritional formula contains 0.001 to 0.05 mg of lipase per milligram of total EPA in
the nutritional formula. In some embodiments, the nutritional formula contains 0.01
to 0.1 mg of lipase per milligram of total EPA in the nutritional formula. In some
embodiments, the nutritional formula contains 0.02 to 0.08 mg of lipase per
milligram of total EPA in the nutritional formula. In some embodiments, the
nutritional formula contains 0.04 to 0.06 mg of lipase per milligram of total EPA in
the nutritional formula.
 [00165]     In some embodiments, a nutritional formula is prepared by a method
 disclosed herein. In some embodiments, a nutritional formula is prepared using a
 device disclosed herein.
 Methods of Preparing a Nutritional Formula
 [00166]    According to various embodiments, the present disclosure also provides
 methods of preparing nutritional formulas. In some embodiments, the nutritional
 formula is an infant formula. In some embodiments, the nutritional formula is a
 medical nutritional formula. In some embodiments, the nutritional formula is a
 nutritional drink for adults (such as a complete nutritional drink, e.g., ENSURE,
 PEDIASURE).
 [00167]     In some embodiments, a method of preparing a nutritional formula
 comprises exposing a liquid nutritional composition to a lipase. In some
 embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition comprises LC-PUFA triglycerides or
  LC-PUFA esters. In some embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition
 comprises triglycerides or esters of one or more LC-PUFAs selected from the group
 consisting of DHA, ARA, and EPA.
                                             65

[001681      In some embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to a
lipase selected from Chromobacterium viscosum lipase, Pseudomonas fluorescens
lipase, Burcholderia cepacia lipase, and Rhizopus oryzae lipase. In some
embodiments, the lipase is selected from Chromobacterium viscosum lipase,
Pseudomonas fluorescens lipase, and Rhizopus oryzae lipase. In some
embodiments, the lipase is Chromobacterium viscosum lipase. In some
embodiments, the lipase is Pseudornonas fluorescens lipase. In some
embodiments, the lipase is Rhizopus oryzae lipase.
[00169]      Components involved in these methods may be mixed in various orders.
In some embodiments, lipase is added to a liquid nutritional composition, thereby
exposing lipids in the liquid nutritional composition to the lipase. In some
embodiments, a liquid nutritional composition is prepared by adding a potable liquid
to a solid or powder form of the nutritional composition. In some embodiments,
 lipase is present in the solid or powder form of the nutritional composition before
the addition of potable liquid. In other embodiments, lipase is added after the liquid
 nutritional composition is prepared. In some embodiments, the lipase and the solid
 or powder form of the nutritional composition are added to a potable liquid at the
 same time.
 [00170]      In some embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to
 lipase for at least one minute, at least 2 minutes, at least 3 minutes, at least 5
 minutes, at least 8 minutes, at least 10 minutes, at least 15 minutes, at least 30
 minutes, at least 45 minutes, or at least 60 minutes prior to ingestion. In some
 embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to lipase for no more
 than 30 seconds, no more than 1 minute, no more than 2 minutes, no more than 3
                                            66

minutes, no more than 5 minutes, no more than 8 minutes, no more than 10
minutes, no more than 15 minutes, no more than 30 minutes, no more than 45
minutes, no more than 60 minutes, no more than 2 hours, no more than 4 hours, no
more than 6 hours, no more than 12 hours, or no more than 24 hours.
[001711    In some embodiments, the method results in a nutritional formula in
which at least 10%, at least 15%, at least 20%, at least 30%, at least 40%, at least
50%, at least 60%, at least 70%, at least 80%, at least 85%, at least 90%, at least
95%, or 100% of the total LC-PUFA in the nutritional formula is in the form of
monoglycerides and/or free fatty acids. In some embodiments, at least 10%, at
least 15%, at least 20%, at least 30%, at least 40%, at least 50%, at least 60%, at
least 70%, at least 80%, at least 85%, at least 90%, at least 95%, or 100% of the
DHA is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid. In some
embodiments, at least 10%, at least 15%, at least 20%, at least 30%, at least 40%,
at least 50%, at least 60%, at least 70%, at least 80%, at least 85%, at least 90%,
at least 95%, or 100% of the ARA is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free
fatty acid. In some embodiments, at least 10%, at least 15%, at least 20%, at least
30%, at least 40%, at least 50%, at least 60%, at least 70%, at least 80%, at least
85%, at least 90%, at least 95%, or 100% of the EPA is in the form of a
 monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid.
 [00172]    For purposes of this application, exposure of a nutritional composition or
formula to a lipase refers to the period of time in which a liquid nutritional
 composition or liquid formula is in contact with a lipase, which may be in solution or
 immobilized. For purposes of this application, exposure to a lipase ends when the
 formula is ingested by a subject or when the lipase is removed by separating the
                                           67

liquid formula from a solid support to which the lipase is immobilized. In some
embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to lipase for no more
than 10 minutes, and at least 20% of the DHA in the resulting nutritional formula is
in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid. In some embodiments, the
liquid nutritional composition is exposed to lipase for no more than 10 minutes, and
at least 20% of the ARA in the resulting nutritional formula is in the form of a
monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid. In some embodiments, the liquid nutritional
composition is exposed to lipase for no more than 10 minutes, and at least 20% of
the total LC-PUFA in the resulting nutritional formula is in the form of a
 monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid.
 [00173]     In some embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to
 lipase for no more than 10 minutes, and at least 40% of the DHA in the resulting
 nutritional formula is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid. In
 some embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to lipase for no
 more than 10 minutes, and at least 40% of the ARA in the resulting nutritional
 formula is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid. In some
 embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to lipase for no more
 than 10 minutes, and at least 40% of the total LC-PUFA in the resulting nutritional
 formula is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid.
 [00174}     In some embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to
 lipase for no more than 10 minutes, and at least 50% of the DHA in the resulting
 nutritional formula is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid. In
 some embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to lipase for no
  more than 10 minutes, and at least 50% of the ARA in the resulting nutritional
                                            68

formula is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid. In some
embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to lipase for no more
than 10 minutes, and at least 50% of the total LC-PUFA in the resulting nutritional
formula is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid.
[00175]      In some embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to
lipase for no more than 10 minutes, and at least 60% of the DHA in the resulting
 nutritional formula is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid. In
some embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to lipase for no
 more than 10 minutes, and at least 60% of the ARA in the resulting nutritional
formula is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid. In some
 embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to lipase for no more
 than 10 minutes, and at least 60% of the total LC-PUFA in the resulting nutritional
 formula is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid.
 [00176]      In some embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to
 lipase for no more than 10 minutes, and at least 70% of the DHA in the resulting
 nutritional formula is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid. In
 some embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to lipase for no
 more than 10 minutes, and at least 70% of the ARA in the resulting nutritional
 formula is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid. In some
 embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to lipase for no more
 than 10 minutes, and at least 70% of the total LC-PUFA in the resulting nutritional
 formula is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid.
  [00177]     In some embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to
  lipase for no more than 20 minutes, and at least 20% of the DHA in the resulting
                                            69

nutritional formula is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid. In
some embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to lipase for no
more than 20 minutes, and at least 20% of the ARA in the resulting nutritional
formula is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid. In some
embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to lipase for no more
than 20 minutes, and at least 20% of the total LC-PUFA in the resulting nutritional
formula is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid.
[00178]      In some embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to
lipase for no more than 20 minutes, and at least 40% of the DHA in the resulting
nutritional formula is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid. In
some embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to lipase for no
more than 20 minutes, and at least 40% of the ARA in the resulting nutritional
formula is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid. In some
embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to lipase for no more
than 20 minutes, and at least 40% of the total LC-PUFA in the resulting nutritional
formula is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid.
 [00179]     In some embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to
 lipase for no more than 20 minutes, and at least 50% of the DHA in the resulting
 nutritional formula is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid. In
 some embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to lipase for no
 more than 20 minutes, and at least 50% of the ARA in the resulting nutritional
 formula is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid. In some
 embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to lipase for no more
                                            70

than 20 minutes, and at least 50% of the total LC-PUFA in the resulting nutritional
formula is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid.
[00180]      In some embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to
lipase for no more than 20 minutes, and at least 80% of the DHA in the resulting
 nutritional formula is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid. In
some embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to lipase for no
 more than 20 minutes, and at least 80% of the ARA in the resulting nutritional
formula is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid. In some
 embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to lipase for no more
 than 20 minutes, and at least 80% of the total LC-PUFA in the resulting nutritional
 formula is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid.
 [00181]     In some embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to
 lipase for no more than 20 minutes, and at least 90% of the DHA in the resulting
 nutritional formula is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid. In
 some embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to lipase for no
 more than 20 minutes, and at least 90% of the ARA in the resulting nutritional
 formula is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid. In some
 embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to lipase for no more
 than 20 minutes, and at least 90% of the total LC-PUFA in the resulting nutritional
 formula is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid.
  [00182]     In some embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to
  lipase for no more than 30 minutes, and at least 20% of the DHA in the resulting
  nutritional formula is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid. In
  some embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to lipase for no
                                             71

more than 30 minutes, and at least 20% of the ARA in the resulting nutritional
formula is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid. In some
embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to lipase for no more
than 30 minutes, and at least 20% of the total LC-PUFA in the resulting nutritional
formula is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid.
[00183]     In some embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to
lipase for no more than 30 minutes, and at least 40% of the DHA in the resulting
nutritional formula is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid. In
some embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to lipase for no
more than 30 minutes, and at least 40% of the ARA in the resulting nutritional
formula is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid. In some
embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to lipase for no more
than 30 minutes, and at least 40% of the total LC-PUFA in the resulting nutritional
formula is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid.
 [00184]     In some embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to
 lipase for no more than 30 minutes, and at least 60% of the DHA in the resulting
 nutritional formula is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid. In
 some embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to lipase for no
 more than 30 minutes, and at least 60% of the ARA in the resulting nutritional
 formula is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid. In some
 embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to lipase for no more
 than 30 minutes, and at least 60% of the total LC-PUFA in the resulting nutritional
 formula is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid.
                                            72

[00185]       In some embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to
lipase for no more than 30 minutes, and at least 70% of the DHA in the resulting
nutritional formula is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid. In
some embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to lipase for no
more than 30 minutes, and at least 70% of the ARA in the resulting nutritional
formula is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid. In some
embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to lipase for no more
than 30 minutes, and at least 70% of the total LC-PUFA in the resulting nutritional
formula is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid.
[00186]       In some embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to
lipase for no more than 30 minutes, and at least 80% of the DHA in the resulting
nutritional formula is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid. In
some embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to lipase for no
more than 30 minutes, and at least 80% of the ARA in the resulting nutritional
formula is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid. In some
embodiments, the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to lipase for no more
than 30 minutes, and at least 80% of the total LC-PUFA in the resulting nutritional
formula is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid.
 [00187]       In some embodiments, the lipase remains in the nutritional formula when
 it is fed to the subject. In other embodiments, the lipase is removed from the liquid
 nutritional composition before it is fed to the subject. In some embodiments, the
 lipase is removed by exposing the liquid nutritional composition comprising the
 lipase to a solid support immobilized to a molecule that binds to the lipase, thereby
 binding the lipase to the solid support, and separating the liquid nutritional
                                              73

composition from the solid support. Since the lipase is immobilized to the solid
support, separating the liquid nutritional composition from the solid support has the
effect of removing the lipase from the liquid nutritional composition. In some
embodiments, the lipase is immobilized to a solid support before it is exposed to the
liquid nutritional composition, and the lipase is removed by separating the liquid
nutritional composition from the solid support. In some embodiments, the lipase is
immobilized to at least a portion of an interior face of a chamber or to a solid
support contained within the chamber, and the liquid nutritional composition is
temporarily exposed to the lipase by passing through the chamber. In some
embodiments, the chamber is a column. In some embodiments, the liquid
nutritional composition is exposed to a container containing lipase immobilized to a
solid support, and at least a portion of the inner surface of the container consists of
a material that is permeable to triglycerides and esters but is not permeable to the
solid support.
[00188]      In some embodiments, the method produces a nutritional formula that
does not comprise added lipase, In some embodiments, a nutritional formula is
exposed to a lipase, but the nutritional formula is separated from the lipase before
feeding, such that the as-fed nutritional formula does not comprise added lipase. A
 nutritional formula that does not comprise (or contain) added lipase refers to a
formula in which lipase is not detectable or is present only at very low levels, due,
 e.g., to leaching of immobilized lipase from a solid support into the formula. In
 some embodiments, a nutritional formula comprises no more than 0.02% (w/w)
 lipase, no more than 0.01 % (w/w) lipase, no more than 0.005% (w/w) lipase, no
 more than 0.002% (w/w) lipase, no more than 0.001% (w/w) lipase, no more than
 0.0005% (w/w) lipase, no more than 0.0002% (w/w) lipase, or no more than
                                            74

0.0001% (w/w) lipase. In some embodiments, a nutritional formula comprises less
than 0.02% (w/w) lipase, less than 0.01% (w/w) lipase, less than 0.005% (w/w)
lipase, less than 0.002% (w/w) lipase, less than 0.001% (w/w) lipase, less than
0.0005% (w/w) lipase, less than 0.0002% (w/w) lipase, or less than 0.0001% (w/w)
lipase.
[00189]      In some embodiments, the method comprises exposing the nutritional
formula to less than 5,000 units of lipase per serving (with units assessed in a
standard olive assay, such as described in Pharmaceutical Enzymes: Properties
 and Assay Methods, R.Ruyssen and A. Lauwers (Eds) Scientific Publising
 Company, Ghent, Gelgium (1978)). In other embodiments, the nutritional formula is
 exposed to less than 3,000 units of lipase per serving. In some embodiments, the
 nutritional formula is exposed to less than 1,000 units of lipase per serving. In
 certain embodiments, the formula exposed to less than 5,000, less than 3,000, or
 less than 1,000 units of lipase per serving is an infant formula or a medical
 nutritional formula.
 [00190]     In some embodiments, a method of the invention exposes the nutritional
 formula to 0.01 mg to 1 gram of lipase per gram of total fat (whether in free fatty
 acid, monoglyceride, ester, or triglyceride form) in the nutritional formula. In some
 embodiments, a method of the invention exposes the nutritional formula to 0.1 to
 500 mg of lipase per gram of total fat in the nutritional formula. In some
 embodiments, a method of the invention exposes the nutritional formula to 0.1 to
 250 mg of lipase per gram of total fat in the nutritional formula. In some
 embodiments, a method of the invention exposes the nutritional formula to 0.1 to
 200 mg of lipase per gram of total fat in the nutritional formula. In some
                                            75

embodiments, a method of the invention exposes the nutritional formula to 0.1 to
150 mg of lipase per gram of total fat in the nutritional formula. In some
embodiments, a method of the invention exposes the nutritional formula to 0.1 to
100 mg of lipase per gram of total fat in the nutritional formula. In some
embodiments, a method of the invention exposes the nutritional formula to 0.1 to 50
mg of lipase per gram of total fat in the nutritional formula. In some embodiments,
a method of the invention exposes the nutritional formula to 1 to 50 mg of lipase per
gram of total fat in the nutritional formula. In some embodiments, a method of the
invention exposes the nutritional formula to 25 to 75 mg of lipase per gram of total
fat in the nutritional formula. In some embodiments, a method of the invention
exposes the nutritional formula to 1 to 100 mg of lipase per gram of total fat in the
nutritional formula. In some embodiments, a method of the invention exposes the
nutritional formula to no more than 50 mg of lipase per gram of total fat in the
nutritional formula.
[00191]      In some embodiments, the method exposes the nutritional formula to
0.001 to 10 mg of lipase per milligram of total LC-PUFA (whether in free fatty acid,
 monoglyceride, ester, or triglyceride form) in the nutritional formula. In some
embodiments, the nutritional formula is exposed to 0.001 to 5 mg of lipase per
 milligram of total LC-PUFA in the nutritional formula. In some embodiments, the
 nutritional formula is exposed to 0.001 to 3 mg of lipase per milligram of total LC
 PUFA in the nutritional formula. In some embodiments, the nutritional formula is
 exposed to 0.001 to 1 mg of lipase per milligram of total LC-PUFA in the nutritional
 formula. In some embodiments, the nutritional formula is exposed to 0.001 to 0.5
 mg of lipase per milligram of total LC--PUFA in the nutritional formula. In some
 embodiments, the nutritional formula is exposed to 0.001 to 0.1 mg of lipase per
                                             '76

milligram of total LC-PUFA in the nutritional formula. In some embodiments, the
nutritional formula is exposed to 0.001 to 0.05 mg of lipase per milligram of total
LC-PUFA in the nutritional formula. In some embodiments, the nutritional formula
is exposed to 0.01 to 0.1 mg of lipase per milligram of total LC-PUFA in the
nutritional formula. In some embodiments, the nutritional formula is exposed to
0.02 to 0.08 mg of lipase per milligram of total LC-PUFA in the nutritional formula.
In some embodiments, the nutritional formula is exposed to 0.04 to 0.06 mg of
lipase per milligram of total LC-PUFA in the nutritional formula. In some
embodiments, the nutritional formula is exposed to no more than 0.1 mg of lipase
per milligram of total LC-PUFA in the nutritional formula.
[00192]      In some embodiments, the method exposes the nutritional formula to
0.001 to 10 mg of lipase per milligram of total DHA (whether in free fatty acid,
monoglyceride, ester, or triglyceride form) in the nutritional formula. In some
embodiments, the nutritional formula is exposed to 0.001 to 5 mg of lipase per
milligram of total DHA in the nutritional formula. In some embodiments, the
nutritional formula is exposed to 0.001 to 3 mg of lipase per milligram of total DHA
in the nutritional formula. In some embodiments, the nutritional formula is exposed
to 0.001 to 1 mg of lipase per milligram of total DHA in the nutritional formula. In
some embodiments, the nutritional formula is exposed to 0.001 to 0.5 mg of lipase
 per milligram of total DHA in the nutritional formula. In some embodiments, the
 nutritional formula is exposed to 0.001 to 0.1 mg of lipase per milligram of total DHA
 in the nutritional formula. In some embodiments, the nutritional formula is exposed
to 0.001 to 0.05 mg of lipase per milligram of total DHA in the nutritional formula. In
 some embodiments, the nutritional formula is exposed to 0.01 to 0.1 mg of lipase
 per milligram of total DHA in the nutritional formula. In some embodiments, the
                                            77

nutritional formula is exposed to 0.02 to 0.08 mg of lipase per milligram of total DHA
in the nutritional formula. In some embodiments, the nutritional formula is exposed
to 0.04 to 0.06 mg of lipase per milligram of total DHA in the nutritional formula.
[00193]     In some embodiments, a method of preparing a nutritional formula
comprises exposing a liquid nutritional composition to a device as described herein.
EXAMPLE 1: Specific Activities of Lipases for DHA and ARA
[00194]     To evaluate the enzymatic activity of various lipases on DHA and/or ARA
triglycerides, experiments were performed in a two mL glass vial (with magnetic stir
bar) containing 0.1 M Tris buffer, pH 7.7 and the substrate DHA or ARA
triglycerides. The reaction was initiated by adding lipase solutions. Lipases were
obtained from commercial sources as follows: Rhizopus oryzae (Amano DF-15,
Amano Enzymes Inc., Nagoya, Japan), Chromobacterium viscosum (EMD
CalBiochem, EMD Biosciences, Billerica, MA), and Pseudomonas fluoresens
(Amano AK, Amano Enzymes Inc., Nagoya, Japan). Other lipases are also
available from commercial sources, such as Candida rugosa (Amano AY 30 or
Amano 30, Amano Enzymes Inc., Nagoya, Japan), Aspergillus niger (Amano DS,
Amano Enzymes Inc., Nagoya, Japan), Penicillium camembertii (Amano 50, Amano
 Enzymes Inc., Nagoya, Japan), Rhizomucor miehei (L4277, Sigma-Aldrich),
Asperigilius oryzae (62285, Sigma-Aldrich), and Burcholderia cepacia (534641,
 Sigma-Aldrich). Lipase solutions were prepared from these commercially available
 lipases without additional purification, except that B. cepacia lipase was purified to
 homogeneity.
                                            78

[00195]    The vials were transferred to a water-bath at 37"C placed on a magnetic
stirrer. 50 pl of samples were taken at different time intervals - 0, 15, 30, 45, 60,
90, and 120 min and added to a HPLC vial containing 950 pl of running buffer (30%
10 mM ammonium phosphate buffer, pH 3.0 and 70% acetonitrile). The samples
were then analyzed for either DHA free acid or ARA free acid by reverse phase
high performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC) using an Agilent HPLC1100
series and a C8 RP column and monitoring at 215 and 220 nm. The free acid
peaks were identified according to retention times using commercially available
standards: DHA triglyceride (Nu-check Prep, Inc. Lot No. T-310-D7-V), ARA
triglyceride (Nu-check Prep, Inc. Lot No. T-295-JY14-V), DHA free acid form (Nu
check Prep, Inc. Lot No. U-84A-AU20-U), and ARA free acid form (Nu-check Prep,
Inc. Lot No. U-71A-N 11-U). The specific activities of a panel of lipases in this assay
for DHA and ARA are summarized in Table 1. In the inventors' hands,
Chromobacteriumviscosum (CV), Burcholderia cepacia (BC), Pseudomonas
fluoresens (PF), and Rhizopus oryzae (RO) had substantially higher specific activity
toward DHA and/or ARA compared to the other lipases tested, including Candida
rugosa (CR).
                                           79

TABLE 1: Specific activities of lipases for DHA and ARA
  Enzyme     DHA produced, flno lminlmg   ARA produced,     knoliminlmg
     CV                 27.73                        23.207
     PF                  4.66                         2.599
         RO9,83                                       6,297
     CR                  0.01                         0.205
     AN                   0.00                        0.000
     PC                   0.00                        0.000
     BC                  55.11                        13.920
    AG                    0.33                        0.263
     RM                   0.14                         0.03
EXAMPLE 2: Enzymatic activity of Chromobacteriumviscosum and
                 Rhizopus oryzae lipases for DHA, ARA, and EPA in infant
                 formula
[00196]   To evaluate the enzymatic activity of CV and RO lipase on DHA, ARA,
and EPA when supplemented to infant formula, milk-based infant formula was
prepared by dissolving 10 g of ENFAMIL@ powder in 35 mL of water. Infant
formula containing substrate EPA, 0.1M Tris buffer, pH 7.7, and substrates 2.7 mg
DHA (Nu-check Prep, Inc. Lot No. T-310-D7-V) and 5.4 mg ARA (Nu-check Prep,
Inc. Lot No. T-295) were added to a one mL glass vial (with magnetic stir bar). The
reaction was initiated by adding enzyme (i.e. lipase); four concentrations of each
                                                                        0
enzyme were tested. The vials were transferred to a water bath at 37 C placed on
a magnetic stirrer. 50 fl of each sample were taken at different time points - 0, 10,
20, 30, 45, and 60 min and added to a HPLC vial containing 950 Pl of HPLC
 running buffer (30% 10 mM ammonium phosphate buffer, pH 3.0 and 70%
                                         80

acetonitrile). The samples were then analyzed for either DHA acid, ARA acid, or
EPA acid by RP-HPLC as above.
[00197]      The percent of total triglycerides decreased over time as the amount of
free acid and monoglyceride increased. For example, when hydrolyzed with RO,
the amount of DHA free acid increased with time (Figure 7). Similarly, when
hydrolyzed with RO, the amount of ARA free acid increased with time (Figure 8).
[001981      The specific activities of each of the lipases in this assay were calculated
based on the amount of free DHA acid, ARA acid, or EPA acid released in the
 infant formula and are shown in Table 2.
TABLE 2: Specific activities of lipases on TG-DHA, TG-ARA, and TG-EPA in
 infant formula
  Enzyme     DHA produced, pmol/minlmg    ARA produced, pmol/minlmg   EPA produced, pmolrminlmg
            .      . . ...              1.         36 . 58 7                   19 . 8 6 6
                         13062                     10 940                      14.156
 Example 3: Hydrolysis of DHA triglyceride and ARA triglyceride scale up
 [00199]      Lipases were evaluated for their ability to hydrolyze TG-DHA and TG
ARA when scaled up to an amount that may be used for supplementing infant
 formula. The infant formula (milk) was prepared by dissolving 162 g of Enfamil
 powder in 648 mL of tap water (hot water, the temperature was 37 0 C). DHA
 triglyceride (442 mg, final concentration of DHA was 0.54g, 1.2% of total fat) and
 ARA triglyceride (885 mg, final concentration ARA 1.08 g, 2.4% of total fat) were
 accurately weighed from the same source as in Example 2, and were mixed with
 the infant formula powder before adding the water. The reaction was carried out in
                                              81

a water-bath with constant stirring. Fat hydrolysis was initiated by adding either CV
or RO lipase. Formula samples were withdrawn at 0, 15, and 30 minutes and were
analyzed for hydrolysis of DHA and ARA by RP-H PLC, as described above. The
results are shown in Table 3 below.
TABLE 3: Hydrolysis of TG-DHA and TG-ARA in infant formula
                                           LHA                    AR
                                                                     Hydrolysis
                                                                      A      30mi
                      ---------
                           -      -       ..i-----                          30 mmn
                                           15 min     30 min      15Imi1
    _____    9                             75.17      71.32       58.97     74.33
             18                            84.51      87.25       65.83     63.31
     RO      29                  ___62.35            171.19       104.81    124.67
             58                            73         67.77       124.22    113.08
 Example 4: Enzymatic activity of immobilized Rhizopus oryzae lipase on TG
                DHA or TG-ARA in Infant Formula and Buffer
 [00200]     To evaluate the enzymatic activity of immobilized RO lipase on TG-DHA
 or TG-ARA when supplemented to infant formula, milk-based infant formula was
 prepared by dissolving 10 g of ENFAMIL@ powder in 35 mL of water. The reaction
 was carried out as follows. Infant formula, 0.1M Tris buffer, pH 7.7, and substrate
 (TG-DHA or TG-ARA) were added to a one mL glass vial (with magnetic stir bar).
 The reaction was initiated by adding lipase. The vials were transferred to a water
 bath at 37 0 C placed on a magnetic stirrer. 50 al of each sample were taken at
 different time points - 0, 10, 20, and 30 min and added to a HPLC vial containing
 900 pl of HPLC running buffer (30% 10 mM ammonium phosphate buffer, pH 3.0
 and 70% acetonitrile). The samples were then analyzed for either DHA acid or
 ARA acid by RP-HPLC as described above.
                                                  82

[00201]     The specific activities of the lipase for hydrolysis of TG-DHA and TG-ARA
were calculated based on the amount of free DHA acid or ARA acid released in the
infant formula and are shown in Table 4.
TABLE 4: Specific activities of Immobilized RO lipase on TG-DHA or TG-ARA
              in infant formula and Buffer
           Enzyme                       DHA produced,             ARA produced.
                                         pmol/min/mg               pmol/min/mg
   Immobilized Rhizopus
    oryzae lipase (RO)                   0.017 (0.004)             0,020 (0.008)
The values in parentheses are for buffer alone.
Example 5: Animals and surgical procedure
5.1 Animals
[00202]     The experiments were performed on 12 pigs (9 + 3) from the University
herd at Odarsldv; Swedish Agricultural University, Department of Agricultural
Biosystems and Technology, weighing approximately 10±2 kg each. Animals were
maintained on a 12 hour day-night cycle, with light from 06.00-18.00 (6am-6pm)
and dark from 18.00-06.00 (6pm-6am) hours. The pigs were individually housed in
metabolic cages or individual pens equipped with a dry feeding trough, a drinking
nipple and a constant heating lamp (150 W). They were allowed to move freely
within their pen, and have visual contact with each other.
5.2 Feed
[00203]     Following surgery and during the pre-treatment period, pigs were fed a
standard pig diet ('53908 VAxtill 320 P BK", Lantnannen, Sweden) containing
17.5% crude protein, 3.9% crude fibre, 3.5% crude fat, and 5.2% ash together with
50001E/kg vitamine A, 500 IE/kg vitamine D, and 85 mg/kg vitamine E. Pigs were
                                                83

fed twice daily (2.0% of body mass per meal) at 09:00-10:00 hr (9am-10 am) and
17:00-18:00 hr (5pm-6pm). For a few days before the start of the experiment, i.e.,
before the adaptation period, pigs were trained to consume infant formula (NAN Pro
1 Gold Infant Formula, Nestle). Formula was prepared as a 1:4 dilution in tap water
instead of 1:7 as recommended by manufacturer to allow proper consumption,
since pigs do not like to drink large volumes of liquid. Daily nutrient requirements
are 400kJ/kg body weight, corresponding 40g of formula powder/kg body weight.
 Daily feed was divided into 4 portions, starting with the first meal at 9 am and than,
every 3h after with the last meal of day at 6 pm. 1OOg of NAN formula contains
 about 27.7% fat, 9.6% protein, and 57.8% carbohydrates.
 5.3  Infant formula milk fortified with DHA and ARA triglycerides
 [00204]      According to the manufacturer, NAN Pro 1 Gold (Nestle) is a premium
 whey predominant starter infant formula that is nutritionally complete and specially
 formulated for healthy infants from birth. It also contains fish oil to help support
 brain and visual development.
 (http://www.nestlebaby.com/au/babynutrition/products/infant.formula/)
 NAN Pro 1 Gold Ingredients:
               Milk solids, vegetable oils (contains soy), minerals
               (calcium citrate, potassium citrate, potassium chloride,
               magnesium chloride, sodium chloride, sodium sulphate,
               ferrous sulphate, zinc sulphate, calcium phosphate,
               copper sulphate, manganese sulphate, potassium
               iodide, sodium selenate), omega LCPUFAs (DHA from
               fish oil, AA), emulsifier (soy lecithin), vitamins [sodium
               ascorbate (vit C), d-l alpha tocopheryl acetate (vit E),
               niacinamide (niacin), calcium pantothenate, retinyl
               acetate (vit A), thiamine mononitrate (vit B1), pyridoxine
               hydrochloride (vit B6), riboflavin (vit B2), folic acid,
               phylloquinone (vit K1), biotin, cholecalciferol (vit D3)],
                                                   84

              cyanocobalamin (B 12), L-histidine, taurine, inositol,
              nucleotides (cytidine 5'-monophosphate, uridine 5'
              monophosphate, adenosine 5 -monophosphate,
              guanosine 5'-monophosphate), L-carnitine, culture
              (bifidus).
Table 5 below summarizes the lipid composition of human milk and infant formula
milk*, together with infant formula and pig formula milk for use in these
experiments.
TABLE 5: LCPUFA fortified formula milk
                        Human                  Infant term  Infant pre- Pig formula
                        milk*                  formula      term        for study in
                                                            formula     EPI pigs
TG g/L                  25-29                  33-36        25          50
Cholesterol             9-15                   0-4                       10
mg/dL                              -mgld---
                                 -------------                                       ---
In % of total FA        Human                  Infant term  Infant pre- Pig formula
                        milk*                  formula      term        for study in
                                                            formula      EPI pigs
Palmitate               20-25                  8-24          NA*         NA*
C16:0
Sterate                 7-12                   2-6           NA*         NA*
C1 8:0C..............--------  -                                           --
                                         - - - - - -------- ...------..........---
LA                      10-15,5                 10-29.9     4,5          NA*
C1 8:2n-6
LNA                     0 58-1 44              0.08-2        0.086       NA*
C18:3n-3
DHA                     0.19-                  0-0.15        0.083       Up to
C22:6n-3                0 42                                             1.6%**
(o 3)
ARA                     04-0.54                0-0.4         0 167-      Up to
C20:4j-6                                                                 3 15%**
  (o6)
*Data from various women cohorts in Australia, Europe, United Statesand Canada between 1990
and 2005, Data from various infant term formulas including Nutrilom (NutriciaNetherland), Enfamil
(Mead Johnson, Canada), Similac (Abbott Ross, US),SMA (Wyeth, US). (JPGN 201 0;51: 380-401)//
    Huang MC, 2007. *"MCT9.6 * Final concentration will be measured after experiment is finished
                                                           85

The total concentration of TG-DHA and TG-AA in NAN formula is 0.22%, which is
below the recommended levels of 1%. Thus, NAN formula was fortified with TG
DHA and TG-AA from fish oil (NuCheck (http://www.nu-chekprep.com, -40% TG
DHA and TG-ARA) to reach a final concentration of 1 % TG-DHA and 2%TG-DHA
respectively.
5.4 Pancreatic duct ligation surgery for induction of exocrine pancreatic insufficiency (EP)
[00205]     EP surgery was performed on 12+2 young pigs 6-8 weeks of age. EP is
typically fully developed three to four weeks after the surgery. Development of total
pancreatic insufficiency was confirmed by arrested growth (minimal or no increase
in body weight) and/or development of steathorrhea.
EXAMPLE 6: Experimental design, procedures
6.1    Study design
[00206]     The study contained three periods: adaptation, control, and testing.
During the 7-day adaptation period, pigs were trained to drink infant formula
fortified with TG-DHA and TG-ARA. During the 7-day control period, pigs continued
to be fed infant formula fortified with TG-DHA and TG-ARA. During the 7-day
testing period, the pigs were fed infant formula fortified with TG-DHA and TG-ARA,
either (a) non-hydrolyzed;(b) pre-hydrolyzed with CV lipase; or (c) pre-hydrolyzed
with RO lipase. Formula consumption was measured daily, faeces samples were
collected the last 3 days of each study period (72 hr collection), and blood samples
were collected on day 7 of the control and testing periods.
6.2 Lipase dosing
[00207]     Dose of lipase and pre-hydrolysis time were determined based on in vitro
results (Example 3) and daily nutritional requirements of pigs. NAN formula mixed
                                                  86

with lipase RO or CV (-1300 U/g total fat) was incubated with shaking for 15
minutes at 37C
Proposed formula preparation and lipase mix:
    -Body weight of pigs ranged from 11-14 kg
    -Feed requirement: 40 g formula powder/kg body weight;
    -Daily need 500 g powder/pig
    -4 meals per day
    -125 g powder/pig/meal
 Meal preparation: 500 q powder + 1.5 L water (dilution 1:4)
     -Add dry powder first
     -Add TG-PUFA oils (7.5 mL DHA and 15 mL ARA), mix well, and add tap water
         from water bath at 37C, mix well
     -For lipase-treated formula, mix in CV or RO lipase
     -Add water to final volume
     -Mix all 15 min in water bath at 37C
     -Divide into 4 buckets and feed each pig -600 mL of formula
           6.2.1 Adaptation period (7-10 days)
[00208]     Approximately 7-10 days before the Adaptation period, 12 pigs were
placed in metabolic cages and trained to drink formula enriched with TG-PUFA. On
the first morning of the Adaptation period, body weight was recorded before the
morning meal.
            6.2.2 Control period (7 days)
[00209]     To all selected pigs infant formula was given as the only source of food, 4
times per day. The total daily formula consumption was measured during the entire
experiment. On the morning of the first day of the Control period, body weight was
recorded before the morning meal. 3x24hr stool samples were collected from day 5
                                            87

through day 7. Blood samples were collected on the last day of this period, 1hr
before a meal and 1, 2, and 3 hours later.
            6.2.3 Testing Period (7 days)
[00210]      To all selected pigs TG-PUFA enriched infant formula was given as the
only source of food, 4 times per day. The total daily milk consumption was
measured during the entire experiment. On the morning of the first day of the
Testing period body weight was recorded before morning meal. 3x24h stool
samples were collected from day 5 through day 7. Blood samples were collected on
the last day of this period, 1h before a meal and 1, 2, and 3 h later.
 [00211]     Before the start of this period, pigs were randomized into three groups,
 based on body weight and willingness to drink formula:
             1) One-third of the EPI pigs (n=4) were fed formula pre-hydrolyzed with
 RO lipase;
             2) One-third of the EPI pigs (n=4) were fed formula pre-hydrolyzed with
 CV lipase; and
             3) One-third of the EPl pigs (n=4) were fed formula only.
 Preparation of the formula and lipase mix is shown above at paragraph [00201].
 6.3 Criteria for a positive response
 [00212]     Significant reduction in fecal LCPUFA, increase in coefficient of fat
 absorption (% CFA), and increase in concentration of plasma LCPUFA when
 compared to EPI pigs fed only formula supplemented with 2%TG-ARA and 1%TG
 A8
                                              88

6.4 Data analysis
-        Individual data were recorded at the time they are generated. Statistical
analyses were performed using the Student t-test. Differences were considered
significant if p<0.05.
EXAMPLE 7: RO and CV lipases improve fatty acid absorption in EPI pigs
[00213]      Pigs with exocrine pancreatic insufficiency (EPI), a well established
surgical model, were used as a model to mimic pre-term or full-term human babies,
where exocrine pancreatic function is compromised. The EPI surgical pig model
was used essentially as described in Examples 5 and 6 to evaluate the effect on
fatty acid absorption of infant formula pre-hydrolyzed with CV lipase or RO lipase
as compared to non-hydrolyzed infant formula. EPI pigs were 10 weeks of age (+/
2 weeks), which corresponds to about 6 months of age for a human infant. Pigs
were feed Nestle (NAN Pro I Gold) infant formula enriched with 2% ARA
triglycerides (TG-ARA) and 1% DHA triglycerides (TG-DHA) from fish oil (NuCheck
 (http://www.nu-chekprep.com, -40% TG-DHA and TG-ARA). Feeding occurred
every 3 hours, 4 times per day. In the group of pigs receiving pre-hydrolyzed
formula, the formula was pre-hydrolyzed 15 minutes before feeding by mixing with
 CV lipase or RO lipase at 37 0 C. The duration of the experiment was 1 week,
followed by analysis of LC-PUFA concentration in faeces, absorption of LC-PUFA
 in plasma, and accretion of LC-PUFA in tissues (retina, heart, liver, kidney,
 erythrocytes, brain, and fat).
 [00214]     As shown in Figure 22A, EPI pigs given formula pre-hydrolyzed with CV
 lipase or RO lipase had significantly reduced stool weight (CV: >60% reduction,
 p<0.001; RO: -30% reduction, p<0.05). Pre-hydrolysis of fat with CV lipase or RO
 lipase also significantly reduced total fat content in the faeces compared to control
                                             89

EPI pigs (Figure 22B) and significantly increased the coefficient of fat absorption
(%CFA) compared to controls (Figure 22C), where %CFA = (fat intake (g/24 hr)
fat in faeces (g/24 hr))/(fat intake (g/24 hr)), n=3/arm, p=0.002 for CV vs. control,
and p=0.003 for RO vs. control. As compared to control, pre-hydrolysis with either
CV lipase or RO lipase caused significant reductions in faecal ARA, (36% and 65%
reductions, respectively), EPA (78% reduction with either enzyme), and DHA (68%
and 60% reductions, respectively) (Figure 23). These data show that pre
hydrolysis of formula with CV or RO lipase reduces faecal levels of total fat, ARA,
DHA, and EPA, indicating an improvement in the absorption of omega-3, omega-6,
and total fatty acids.
[00215]     In addition, pigs fed pre-hydrolyzed formula had a significant increases in
plasma and tissue levels of ARA and DHA after 7 days of feeding compared to
control pigs. For these studies, there were 4 pigs in the Control and CV lipase
groups and 3 pigs in the RO lipase group. Pre-prandial plasma samples were
taken after overnight fasting following 7 days of treatment. Plasma levels of ARA
and DHA were significantly higher (60% and 30%, respectively, p<0.05) in pigs fed
formula pre-hydrolyzed with RO lipase compared to pigs fed non-hydrolyzed
formula (Figure 24). Plasma levels of ARA were also significantly higher (40%,
p<0.05) in pigs fed formula pre-hydrolyzed with CV lipase compared to pigs fed
non-hydrolyzed formula (Figure 24). ARA and DHA levels also increased
significantly (p<0.05) in the retina (Fig. 25A) and adipose tissue (Fig. 25B) of pigs
fed formula pre-hydrolyzed with RO lipase compared to pigs fed non-hydrolyzed
formula. Retina levels of ARA were also significantly higher (p<0.05) in pigs fed
formula pre-hydrolyzed with CV lipase compared to pigs fed non-hydrolyzed
formula (Figure 25A). In pigs fed formula pre-hydrolyzed with CV or RO lipase,
                                             90

ARA levels also increased significantly (p<0.05) in the heart (Fig. 26A: 60% and
20% increase, respectively) and kidney (Fig. 26B) of pigs compared to pigs fed
non-hydrolyzed formula. DHA levels increased significantly (60%, p<0.05) in the
heart of pigs fed formula pre-hydrolyzed with CV lipase compared to pigs fed non
hydrolyzed formula (Figure 26A). There were minimal or no changes in liver,
erythrocytes, and brain, which may be explained by the relatively short duration of
treatment (7 days) in this study.
EXAMPLE 8: Hydrolysis of TG-DHA and TG-ARA in infant formula by
immobilized lipase in a "teabag"
[00216]    Rhizopus oryzae (RO) lipase was covalently bound to acrylic beads and
contained in a device resembling a teabag. Enfalac infant formula (25 g) was
combined with tap water (88 mL) at 370C. Reactions were carried out in a glass
bottle with 100 mL of infant formula and a tea bag containing either 100, 500, 1000,
or 2000 mg of immobilized RO lipase. Each reaction was incubated at 370C for 30
minutes with inversion. Samples were taken at the following timepoints: 0,1, 2, 3,
4, 5, 10, 20, and 30 minutes. Samples were analyzed for DHA and ARA by reverse
phase high performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC).
[00217]    At each concentration of immobilized RO lipase, the percent hydrolysis of
DHA and ARA increased as the amount of immobilized RO lipase increased (Figure
27). These data demonstrate the feasibility of the tea bag device for pre
hydrolyzing formula with lipase.
EXAMPLE 9: Hydrolysis of TG-DHA and TG-ARA in infant formula by
immobilized lipase in a cartridge
[00218]    Rhizopus oryzae (RO) lipase and Chromobacterium viscosum (CV)
lipase were immobilized onto macroporous acrylic polymer beads (Immobeads T
                                          91

ChiralVision). Approximately 200 mg of RO lipase were used per gram of beads. A
sample of CV lipase-coated beads was irradiated (CVI) to determine the effect of
irradiation on potency of immobilized lipase. Approximately 1.7 g of each bead
preparation (RO, CV, and CVI) were packed into columns with bed volumes of
approximately 5 mL. Infant formula containing DHA and ARA triglycerides was
passed over the column at a flow rate of 75 mL/hr. The column eluate was
analyzed for DHA and ARA hydrolysis by HPLC. The percent hydrolysis of DHA
and ARA triglycerides by CV, CVI, and RO lipases is shown in Table 6.
TABLE 6: Hydrolysis of TG-DHA and TG-ARA using immobilized lipase
cartridge
               Column packing             Hydrolysis TG-         %Hydrolysis TG-AA
                                       DHA
CV              m                      92.50                     41OO0
-----               --- ......--------
               5mL-.........           71-------         ---------34.50----
                                                                     ------
NO1            5 mL                    7198.7                     94.50
 EXAMPLE 10: RO lipase versus pancreatin
 [00219]    Rhizopus oryzae (RO) lipase displayed far greater activity toward DHA
and ARA triglycerides than porcine pancreatin (Zenpep*), which contains a mixture
 of pancreatic lipases, proteases, and amylases. 1.4 mL of infant formula was
 mixed with 100 uL of lipase (either pancreatin or RO lipase) and 100 uL each of
                                                                   0
triglycerides of DHA and ARA. Reactions were incubated at 37 C for 15 minutes.
 Samples were taken at time points 0, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8,10, and 15 minutes and analyzed
 by RP-HPLC for DHA and ARA. DHA (Figure 28A) and ARA (Figure 28B)
                                            92

triglycerides were hydrolyzed by RO lipase over time but were not hydrolyzed by
pancreatin.
EXAMPLE 11: 6-week pig study: long-term feeding of pigs with formula pre
hydrolyzed by immobilized lipase
[00220]     Six healthy pigs and twenty pigs with surgically-induced exocrine
pancreatic insufficiency (EPI) (see Example 5) were subjected to a two-week
adaptation/control period followed by a six-week testing period (Figure 29). During
the adaptation period, all pigs were fed NAN Pro 1 Gold infant formula (Nestle)
("IF").   During the testing period, the healthy pigs ("Healthy") and six of the pigs
with EPI ("EPI") were fed infant formula fortified with TG-LCPUFA (see Examples 5
and 6); seven of the pigs with EPI were fed TG-LCPUFA-fortified infant formula that
had been pre-hydrolyzed with immobilized RO enzyme using a "teabag" device
("EPI + iRO"). The remaining pigs were withdrawn from the study for various
reasons, e.g., failure to surgically induce complete EPI.
[00221]     For pre-hydrolysis, 2 liters of NAN Pro 1 Gold (Nestle) infant formula
were prepared by mixing 1.5 liters of water at 37C with 500 g of powdered formula
fortified with 50 mg/kg TG-DHA and 100 mg/kg TG-ARA (see Example 5, Section
5.3). Five teabag-like devices containing RO lipase immobilized on beads (1 gram
of immobilized lipase in each "teabag") were added to the 2 liters of formula and
mixed at room temperature for 15 minutes using a magnetic stirrer at constant
mixing speed. This corresponds to 9,000 units (as measured against olive oil) of
immobilized RO lipase per 150 grams of total fat in the fortified formula (60 U/g total
fat). Before hydrolysis, the fortified formula contained 17.4 mmol/liter of non
esterified fatty acids. After hydrolysis, the formula contained 107.6 mmol/liter of
non-esterified fatty acids.
                                             93

[00222]    Food consumption was measured daily. Blood and stool samples were
collected at the end of the adaptation period ("basal"), and after weeks 1, 4, and 6
of the treatment period. For the basal sample, faeces were collected for 48 hours
(2x24h). For the week 1, 4, and 6 samples, faeces were collected for 72 hours
(3x24h).     At the completion of the treatment period, organs and tissues were
collected for absorption and safety studies.
[00223]       Pre-hydrolyzed formula was well tolerated with no treatment-related
changes in food intake, growth, organs (by gross examination), or general well
being. There was no fatty liver development based on gross liver examination
when the pigs were sacrificed at the end of the 6-week study.
[00224]    After six weeks, there was a statistically-significant increase in ARA
(Figure 30A) and DHA levels (Figure 30B) in erythrocytes (20% and 36%,
respectively) in EPl pigs fed pre-hydrolyzed formula (EPI+iRO), as compared to
EPl pigs fed the TG-LCPUFA-fortified formula without prehydrolysis (EPI).
Erythrocyte levels of ARA and DHA did not differ significantly between healthy pigs
and EP pigs fed pre-hydrolyzed formula for six weeks.
[002251      As shown in Table 7, there was a statistically-significant increase in
plasma levels of triglycerides, cholesterol, HDL, and LDL in EP pigs fed pre
hydrolyzed formula for six weeks. Plasma levels of triglycerides, cholesterol, HDL,
and LDL did not differ significantly between healthy pigs and EPI pigs fed pre
 hydrolyzed formula for six weeks.
Table 7
 Group             TriqlV9erides     Cholesterol       HDL                LD
 Healthy   _       4.13±0.68         0.51±0.2r-        2,04±0.31          1.27±0.33
 ff1f---- - ----  [2.69±0.
                   -       56        0,22±0.07          1.46±0.41         0,69±0.35
 FF1 + iRO         4.09±1.47*        0.44±0.19*       [19 04*             1.13±0.54*
                                            94

(All values in mmol/L. Asterisks indicate p<0.05 for the difference between EPI and
EPI+iRO.)
[00226]    As shown in Table 8, pigs fed pre-hydrolyzed formula for six weeks had
increased plasma levels of vitamins A and E, but no significant difference for vitamin D.
There was a statistically significant difference (p<0.05) in the plasma level of vitamin E
between the EPI and EPI+iRO groups. For vitamin A, there was a statistically
significant difference (p<0.05) between the EPI and healthy groups but not between
the EPI+iRO and healthy groups.
Table 8
Group               Alpha-tocopherol       Retinol         25-OH-D3
                    mg/mL                  mg/mL           ng/mL
                    Vitamin E              Vitamin A       Vitamin D
Healthy             6.6±1.4                0.34±0.06       9.4±2.0
EPI                 0.8±0.4                0.18±0.06       10.4±3.6
EPI + iRO           1.5±0.9*               0.26±0.17       10.2±4.1
[00227]         The term "comprise" and variants of the term such as "comprises" or
"comprising" are used herein to denote the inclusion of a stated integer or stated
integers but not to exclude any other integer or any other integers, unless in the
context or usage an exclusive interpretation of the term is required.
[00228]         Any reference to publications cited in this specification is not an
admission that the disclosures constitute common general knowledge in Australia.
                                              95

Other embodiments of the invention as described herein are defined in the following
paragraphs:
1.      A nutritional formula comprising long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (LC
PUFAs), wherein more than 5% of the LC-PUFAs are in the form of monoglycerides
and/or free fatty acids.
2.      The nutritional formula of paragraph 1, wherein the LC-PUFAs comprise one or
more LC-PUFAs selected from the group consisting of DHA, ARA, and EPA.
3.      The nutritional formula of paragraph 2, wherein the LC-PUFAs comprise DHA.
4.      The nutritional formula of paragraph 2, wherein the LC-PUFAs comprise EPA.
5.      The nutritional formula of paragraph 2, wherein the LC-PUFAs comprise ARA.
6.      The nutritional formula of paragraph 2, wherein the LC-PUFAs comprise DHA
and EPA.
7.      The nutritional formula of paragraph 2, wherein the LC-PUFAs comprise DHA
and ARA.
8.      The nutritional formula of paragraph 2, wherein the LC-PUFAs comprise DHA,
EPA, and ARA.
9.      The nutritional formula of any one of paragraphs 1-8, wherein the nutritional
formula is an infant formula.
10.     The nutritional formula of any one of paragraphs 1-9, further comprising a lipase
selected from Chromobacterium viscosum lipase, Pseudomonas fluorescens lipase,
and Rhizopus oryzae lipase.
11.     The nutritional formula of paragraph 10, comprising no more than 0.1 milligram
of lipase per milligram of LC-PUFA.
12.     The nutritional formula of any one of paragraphs 1-9, wherein the nutritional
formula does not comprise added lipase.
                                            96

13.     A nutritional formula comprising a lipase selected from Chromobacterium
viscosum lipase, Pseudomonas fluorescens lipase, and Rhizopus oryzae lipase.
14.     The nutritional formula of paragraph 13, further comprising DHA, wherein more
than 5% of the DHA is in the form of a monoglyceride and/or a free fatty acid.
15.     The nutritional formula of paragraph 13 or paragraph 14, further comprising
ARA, wherein more than 5% of the ARA is in the form a monoglyceride or a free fatty
acid.
16.     The nutritional formula of any one of paragraphs 13-15, further comprising EPA,
wherein more than 5% of the EPA is in the form a monoglyceride or a free fatty acid.
17.     The nutritional formula of any one of paragraphs 13-16, comprising no more
than 0.1 milligram of lipase per milligram of LC-PUFA.
18.     A method of preparing a nutritional formula prior to ingestion by a subject,
comprising exposing a liquid nutritional composition comprising LC-PUFA triglycerides
and/or LC-PUFA esters to a lipase.
19.     The method of paragraph 18, wherein the lipase is one or more selected from
the group consisting of Chromobacterium viscosum lipase, Pseudomonas fluorescens
lipase, and Rhizopus oryzae lipase.
20.     The method of paragraph 18 or paragraph 19, wherein the liquid nutritional
composition is exposed to lipase for at least 1 minute prior to ingestion.
21.     The method of any one of paragraphs 18-20, wherein the liquid nutritional
composition is exposed to lipase no more than 60 minutes prior to ingestion.
22.     The method of any one of paragraphs 18-21, comprising preparing a liquid
composition by adding a potable liquid to a solid or powder composition comprising
LC-PUFA triglycerides and/or LC-PUFA esters and a lipase, thereby exposing a liquid
composition comprising LC-PUFA triglycerides and/or LC-PUFA esters to the lipase.
23.     The method of any one of paragraphs 18-21. comprising
                                             97

        (a)    preparing a liquid composition by adding a potable liquid to a solid or
powder composition comprising LC-PUFA triglycerides and/or LC- PUFA esters, and
        (b)    adding a lipase to the liquid composition,
thereby exposing the LC-PUFA triglycerides and/or LC-PUFA esters to the lipase.
24.     The method of any one of paragraphs 18-23, further comprising removing the
lipase from the liquid composition after exposing the LC-PUFA triglycerides and/or LC
PUFA esters to the lipase.
25.     The method of paragraph 24, wherein the lipase is removed by a process
comprising the steps of;
        (a)    exposing the lipase in the liquid composition to a molecule that binds to
the lipase, wherein the molecule is immobilized to a solid support, thereby binding the
lipase to the solid support; and
        (b)    separating the liquid composition from the solid support.
26.     The method of paragraph 24, wherein the LC-PUFA triglycerides and/or LC
PUFA esters in the liquid composition are exposed to a lipase that is immobilized to a
solid support and the lipase is removed by separating the liquid composition from the
solid support.
27.     The method of paragraph 24, wherein the LC -PUFA triglycerides and/or LC
PUFA esters in the liquid composition are exposed to the lipase and then separated
from the lipase by passing the liquid composition through a chamber, wherein the
lipase is immobilized to at least a portion of an interior face of the chamber.
28.     The method of paragraph 24, wherein the LC-PUFA triglycerides and/or LC
PUFA esters in the liquid composition are exposed to the lipase and then separated
from the lipase by a process comprising the step of passing the liquid composition
through a chamber, wherein the lipase is immobilized to a solid substrate contained
within the chamber.
29.     The method of paragraph 28, wherein the chamber is a column.
                                              98

30.     The method of paragraph 28, wherein the liquid composition comprising LC
PUFA triglycerides and/or LC-PUFA esters is exposed to the lipase and then
separated from the lipase by a process comprising the step of exposing the liquid
composition comprising LC-PUFA triglycerides and/or LC-PUFA esters to a container
containing lipase immobilized to solid support, wherein at least a portion of the inner
surface of the container consists of a material that is permeable to LC-PUFA
triglycerides and LC-PUFA esters but is not permeable to the solid support.
31.     The method of any one of paragraphs 18-30, wherein more than 5% of the LC
PUFAs in the prepared nutritional formula are in the form of monoglycerides and/or
free fatty acids.
32.     The method of any one of paragraphs 18-31, wherein the LC-PUFAs comprise
one or more selected from the group consisting of DHA, ARA, and EPA.
33.     The method of any one of paragraphs 18-20 and 22-32, wherein the liquid
nutritional composition is exposed to lipase no more than 60 minutes prior to ingestion.
34.     The method of any one of paragraphs 18-33, wherein the liquid nutritional
composition are exposed to no more than 0.1 milligram of lipase per milligram of LC
PUFA in the liquid nutritional composition.
35.     The method of any one of paragraphs 18-34, wherein the liquid nutritional
composition is exposed to lipase no more than 30 minutes prior to ingestion.
36.     A nutritional formula prepared by the method of any one of paragraphs 18-35.
37.     A method of providing nutrition to a subject comprising feeding to the subject
the nutritional formula of any one of paragraphs 1-17 and 36.
38.     The method of paragraph 37, wherein the nutritional formula is infant formula.
39.     A method of improving fat absorption in a subject, comprising feeding to the
subject the nutritional formula of any one of paragraphs 1-17 and 36.
40.     The method of paragraph 39, wherein the method reduces the total fat level in
the subject's stool by at least 50%,
                                             99

41.     The method of paragraph 39 or paragraph 40, wherein the method reduces the
level of at least one LC-PUFA selected from the group consisting of DHA, ARA, and
EPA in the subject's stool by at least 50%.
42.     The method of any one of paragraphs 39-41, wherein the method increases the
level of DHA, ARA, or both in the subject's plasma.
43.     The method of any one of paragraphs 39-42, wherein the method increases the
level of DHA, ARA, or both in the subject's retina.
44.     The method of any one of paragraphs 39-43, wherein the method increases the
level of DHA, ARA, or both in the subject's heart.
45.     The method of any one of paragraphs 39-44, wherein the subject is suffering
from pancreatic insufficiency, compromised pancreatic output, a reduced ability to
hydrolyze LC-PUFA triglycerides or LC-PUFA esters, or a reduced ability to absorb
LC-PUFA triglycerides or LC-PUFA esters.
46.     The method of any one of paragraphs 39-45, wherein the nutritional formula is
fed to the subject through a feeding tube.
47.     The method of any one of paragraphs 39-46, wherein the subject is a pre-term
infant.
48.     The method of any one of paragraphs 39-46, wherein the subject is at least 50
years old.
49.     The method of any one of paragraphs 39-46, wherein the subject is 6 years old
or younger.
50.     A method for improving cognitive ability in a subject over the age of 50,
comprising feeding the subject the nutritional formula of any one of paragraphs 1-17
and 36.
51.     A method for preventing chronic lung disease in an infant, comprising feeding
the infant the nutritional formula of any one of paragraphs 1 -17 and 36.
                                            100

52.     A container comprising at least first and second compartments, wherein the first
compartment contains nutritional formula and the second compartment contains a
lipase.
53.     The container of paragraph 52, wherein the lipase is selected from the group
consisting of Chromobacterium viscosum lipase, Pseudomonas fluorescens lipase,
and Rhizopus oryzae lipase.
54.     The container of paragraph 52 or paragraph 53, wherein the nutritional formula
is in powdered form,
55. The container of paragraph 52 or paragraph 53, wherein the nutritional formula is
in liquid form.
56.     The container of any one of paragraphs 52-55, wherein the second
compartment contains no more than 0.1 milligram of lipase per milligram of LC-PUFA
in the nutritional formula contained in the first compartment.
57.     A device for preparing formula, comprising a container comprising a body wall
for containing a fluid; and at least one lipase contained within the container.
58.     The device of paragraph 57, wherein the at least one lipase is immobilized
within the container.
59.     The device of paragraph 58, wherein the at least one lipase is attached to a
structure in fluid communication with the interior of the container.
60.     The device of paragraph 59, wherein the at least one lipase is attached to a
structure by at least one of covalent binding, ionic binding, or cross-linking within the
structure.
61 .    The device of paragraph 59 or paragraph 60, wherein the structure comprises
an inner surface of the container.
62.     The device of paragraph 59 or paragraph 60, wherein the structure comprises a
cap of the container.
                                             101

63.     The device of paragraph 59 or paragraph 60, wherein the structure comprises
surface projections within the container.
64.     The device of paragraph 59 or paragraph 60, wherein the structure comprises
particles within the container.
65.     The device of paragraph 64, wherein the particles comprise balls or beads.
66.     The device of any one of paragraphs 61-65, wherein the at least one lipase is
encapsulated in a material that is permeable to fatty acids but is not permeable to the
lipase.
67.     The device of any one of paragraphs 57-66, wherein the container further
comprises at least one opening in the container.
68.     The device of paragraph 67, wherein the opening is configured for connection to
a feeding tube.
69.     The device of paragraph 67 or paragraph 68, further comprising a valve.
70.     A device for preparing formula, comprising a cap for closure of a bottle, wherein
the cap comprises at least one lipase immobilized on or in a surface positioned for fluid
contact with an interior of the bottle.
71.     The device of paragraph 70, wherein the at least one lipase is immobilized on or
in the surface by at least one of covalent binding, ionic binding, or encapsulation within
the structure.
72.     The device of paragraph 70 or paragraph 71, wherein the surface comprises an
inner surface of the cap.
73.     The device of any one of paragraphs 70-72. wherein the surface comprises
projections configured to extend into a container.
74.     The device of any one of paragraphs 70-73, wherein the at least one lipase is
encapsulated in a material that is permeable to fatty acids but is not permeable to the
lipase.
                                            102

75.     A device for hydrolyzing triglycerides and/or fatty acid esters in a nutritional
formula, wherein the device comprises lipase attached to a solid support.
76.     The device of any one of paragraphs 57-75, wherein the lipase is selected from
the group consisting of by Chromobacterium viscosum lipase, Pseudomonas
fluorescens lipase, and Rhizopus oryzae lipase.
77.     The device of paragraph 75, comprising a container, wherein the lipase is
immobilized to at least a portion of an interior surface of the container.
78.     The device of paragraph 75, comprising a container, wherein the lipase is
immobilized to a solid substrate contained within the container.
79.     The device of paragraph 77 or paragraph 78, where the lipase is immobilized by
covalent binding or cross-linking.
80.     The device of any one of paragraphs 75-79, further comprising a feeding tube
attached to the container.
81.     A method for reducing the length of time a patient requires total parenteral
nutrition comprising the step of administering enterally the nutritional formula of any of
paragraphs 1 -17 and 38.
82.     The method of any one of paragraphs 39-49, wherein the method increases the
level of DHA, ARA, or both in the subject's erythrocytes.
83.     The method of any one of paragraphs 39-51, wherein the method increases the
level of one or more plasma components selected from the group consisting of
triglycerides, cholesterol, HDL, and LDL.
84.     The method of any one of paragraphs 39-51, wherein the method does not
significantly increase the accumulation of fat in the liver.
85.     The nutritional formula of any one of paragraphs 1 -8 or 10-17, wherein the
formula is an adult nutritional formula.
86.     The method of paragraph 49, wherein the subject is less than 1 year old.
                                             103

87.      The method of paragraph 49, wherein the subject is between 1 and 6 years old.
88.      The method of any one of paragraphs 39-49, wherein the method increases the
level of vitamin A, vitamin E, or both in the plasma.
89.      A method for increasing the plasma level of at least one vitamin selected from
the group consisting of vitamin and vitamin E, comprising feeding to the subject the
nutritional formula of any one of paragraphs 1-17 and 36.
Still further embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.
                                             104

CLAIMS:
1.      A device for providing a nutritional formula comprising monoglycerides and free
fatty acids by temporarily exposing a nutritional composition comprising long-chain
polyunsaturated fatty acid (LC-PUFA) triglycerides and/or LC-PUFA esters to lipase
prior to ingestion, the device comprising:
               a container defining an interior for receiving the nutritional composition;
               a structure in fluid communication with the interior of the container; and
               at least one lipase immobilized to the structure so that the nutritional
        composition is exposed to the at least one lipase when the nutritional
        composition is received within the container.
2.      The device of claim 1, further comprising an opening in the container for
allowing the nutritional composition to enter the container.
3.      The device of claim 2, wherein the container further comprises a second
opening in the container for allowing the nutritional formula to exit the container.
4.      The device of claim 3, wherein at least one of the first opening and the second
opening is configured for connection to a feeding tube.
5.      The device of claim 4, further comprising a feeding tube attached to the
container.
6.      The device of claim 1, wherein the device is a feeding mechanism.
7.      The device of claim 1, wherein the device is a bottle.
8.      The device of claim 1, wherein the structure comprises particles within the
container.
9.      The device of claim 8, wherein the particles comprise balls or beads.
10.     The device of claim 8, wherein the particles are magnetic.
11.     The device of claim 1, wherein the structure comprises an inner surface of the
container.
                                              105

12.      The device of claim 1, wherein the structure comprises a wall of the container,
and the at least one lipase is immobilized on or contained within the wall of the
container.
13.      The device of claim 1, wherein the structure is included as part of a separate
compartment within the container.
14.      The device of claim 1, wherein the container includes an opening, wherein the
structure comprises a removable cap of the container, wherein the cap is configured to
seal the opening when affixed to the container, and wherein the cap comprises at least
one lipase immobilized on or in a surface positioned for fluid contact with the interior
when the cap seals the opening.
15.      The device of claim 14, wherein the structure comprises a projection extending
from a surface of the cap that faces the interior of the container when the cap seals the
opening.
16.      The device of claim 1, wherein the structure comprises projections within the
container.
17.      The device of claim 1, wherein the at least one lipase is encapsulated in a
material that is permeable to fatty acids but is not permeable to the lipase.
18.      The device of claim 1, further comprising a valve.
19.      The device of claim 1, wherein the lipase is selected from the group consisting
of Chromobacterium viscosum lipase, Pseudomonas fluorescens lipase, and Rhizopus
oryzae lipase.
20.      The device of claim 1, wherein the lipase is immobilized within the container
such that when the nutritional formula exits the container, the lipase remains in the
container.
21.      The device of claim 20, further comprising a material that acts as a screen or
filter to prevent the at least one lipase from exiting the device with the nutritional
formula.
                                              106

22.     The device of claim 1, further comprising a winding flow path configured to
prolong exposure of the lipase to the formula contained within the flow path.
23.     The device of claim 1, wherein the container has walls that are permeable to the
nutritional composition but retain the lipase.
24.     The device of claim 1, wherein the container has an inner wall defining a
compartment in the interior and an outer wall defining the container, wherein the inner
wall is permeable to the nutritional composition but retains the lipase.
25.     The device of claim 1, wherein the container is compressible.
26.     The device of claim 1, wherein the nutritional composition is milk.
27.     The device of claim 1, wherein the lipase is immobilized by at least one of
adsorption, ionic binding, cross-linking, encapsulation, or entrapment.
28.     A device for providing a nutritional formula comprising monoglycerides and free
fatty acids by temporarily exposing a nutritional composition comprising long-chain
polyunsaturated fatty acid (LC-PUFA) triglycerides and/or LC-PUFA esters to lipase
prior to ingestion, the device comprising:
               a container having a distal end, a proximal end, and an interior region
partially defined by one or more walls; and
               a lipase immobilized to a structure contained within the interior region,
wherein at least one of the one or more walls is permeable to the nutritional
composition but retains the structure so that the nutritional composition is exposed to
the lipase when the nutritional composition enters the interior region.
29.     The device of claim 28, wherein the structure comprises particles.
30.     The device of claim 29, wherein the particles comprise balls or beads.
31.     The device of claim 28, wherein the lipase is immobilized by at least one of
adsorption, ionic binding, cross-linking, encapsulation, or entrapment.
32.     The device of claim 28, wherein the at least one lipase is selected from the
group consisting of Chromobacterium viscosum lipase, Pseudomonas fluorescens
lipase, and Rhizopus oryzae lipase.
                                              107

33.     A method of preparing a nutritional formula comprising LC-PUFAs in the form of
monoglycerides and free fatty acids prior to ingestion by a subject, the method
comprising exposing a liquid nutritional composition comprising LC-PUFA triglycerides
and/or LC-PUFA esters to immobilized lipase, wherein the immobilized lipase is
retained within a container and the nutritional formula is ready for ingestion by the
subject once the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to the immobilized lipase.
34.     The method of claim 33, wherein the lipase is one or more selected from the
group consisting of Chromobacterium viscosum lipase, Pseudomonas fluorescens
lipase, and Rhizopus oryzae lipase.
35.     The method of claim 33, wherein the LC-PUFA triglycerides and/or LC-PUFA
esters in the liquid nutritional composition are exposed to a lipase that is immobilized
to a solid structure and the lipase is removed by separating the liquid nutritional
composition from the solid structure.
36.     The method of claim 33, wherein exposing the liquid nutritional composition
comprises passing the liquid nutritional composition through a container containing a
lipase immobilized by at least one of adsorption, ionic binding, cross-linking,
encapsulation, or entrapment.
37.     The method of claim 33, comprising passing the liquid nutritional composition
through a container, wherein the lipase is immobilized to particles contained within the
container.
38.     The method of claim 33, comprising the step of passing the liquid nutritional
composition through a container comprising lipase immobilized to a solid structure,
wherein the nutritional formula exits the container by passing through a material that is
permeable to the nutritional formula but is not permeable to the solid structure, and
wherein optionally the nutritional formula exits the container through a feeding tube.
39.     The method of claim 33, wherein the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to
the lipase and then separated from the lipase by a process comprising the step of
exposing the liquid nutritional composition to a container containing lipase immobilized
to a solid structure, wherein at least a portion of the inner surface of the container
comprises a material that is not permeable to the solid structure.
                                             108

40.     The method of claim 33, wherein exposing the liquid nutritional composition
comprises passing the liquid nutritional composition through an enteral feeding device
in which the immobilized lipase is bound to a solid structure.
41.     The method of claim 33, wherein the prepared nutritional formula is
subsequently administered to a subject via a feeding tube.
42.     The method of claim 41, wherein the subject is an infant.
43.     The method of claim 33, wherein the nutritional formula comprises more free
fatty acids than monoglycerides after the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to
the lipase.
44.     The method of claim 33, wherein the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to
lipase for at least 1 minute prior to ingestion.
45.     The method of claim 33, wherein the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to
lipase for no more than 30 seconds prior to ingestion.
46.     The method of claim 33, wherein the liquid nutritional composition is exposed to
lipase for no more than 60 minutes prior to ingestion.
47.     The method of claim 33, wherein the LC-PUFAs comprise one or more selected
from the group consisting of docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), arachidonic acid (ARA),
and eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA).
48.     The method of claim 33, wherein the liquid nutritional composition is milk.
49.     A nutritional formula comprising LC-PUFAs in the form of monoglycerides and
free fatty acids prepared by the method of any one of claims 33-48.
50.     The nutritional formula of claim 49, wherein the LC-PUFAs comprise one or
more LC-PUFAs selected from the group consisting of DHA, ARA, and EPA.
51.     The nutritional formula of claim 49, wherein the nutritional formula comprises no
more than 0.1 milligram of lipase per milligram of LC-PUFA.
52.     The nutritional formula of any one of claims 49-51, wherein the nutritional
formula does not comprise added lipase.
                                              109

53.     The nutritional formula of claim 49, wherein the nutritional formula is an infant
formula.
54.     A method of:
        a) providing nutrition to a subject;
        b) improving fat absorption in a subject;
        c) reducing the level of at least one LC-PUFA selected from the group
consisting of DHA, ARA, and EPA in the subject's stool by at least 50%;
        d) increasing the level of DHA, ARA, or both in the subject's plasma, retina,
heart, and/or erythrocytes;
        e) preventing chronic lung disease in an infant;
        f) improving cognitive ability in a subject;
        g) increasing the level of one or more plasma components selected from the
group consisting of triglycerides, cholesterol, HDL, and/or LDL; and/or
        h) increasing the plasma level of at least one vitamin selected from the group
consisting of vitamin A and vitamin E in a subject;
the method comprising feeding to the subject the nutritional formula of claim 50.
55.     The method of claim 54, wherein the subject is suffering from pancreatic
insufficiency, compromised pancreatic output, a reduced ability to hydrolyze LC-PUFA
triglycerides or LC-PUFA esters, or a reduced ability to absorb LC-PUFA triglycerides
or LC-PUFA esters.
Date: 21 March 2018
                                             110

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
