                                          ABSTRACT
         A device including a product analysis platform, including one or more processors
that obtain product information relating to one or more products, the product information
obtained from a plurality of websites on which the one or more products are offered, wherein
the product information is formatted, labeled, and /or arranged differently in the plurality of
websites and wherein the difference includes different naming and/or different units of
measure of a particular product, normalize the product information to determine normalized
product information, wherein the product information is normalized to make the product
information consistent such that items of the normalized product information are used for
further processing by the product analysis platform, determine one or more product metrics
based on the normalized product information, generate a user interface based on the one or
more product metrics and provide the user interface for display, the user interface providing
information relating to the one or more product metrics, including the information in one or
more of a line graph or a pie chart, and the user interface operable to permit a user to interact
with the information relating to the one or more product metrics, including selecting a line on
the line graph or a slice of the pie chart, detect the interaction with the user interface,
determine an additional product metric and/or one or more modified product metrics based
upon the normalized product information and based upon the interaction, and provide, for
display via the user interface, information relating to the additional and/or one or more
modified product metrics.

                                           1/7
             0                    0                            0f
            2      -0                               0 6)4 . 00
                           a)                 N          C
        oCo C-                                    0
                -    0    c            Ecu
                        IU
                              -     o 0    Ec 0c  C               C
     CL V.      F      Lc)
               C-))
                               '-U)              '-   )
0 Iio
   0    ,
                                                                    TO

                                                1
       RECONFIGURABLE USER INTERFACE FOR PRODUCT ANALYSIS
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
[0001]      This Application is a Divisional Application of Australian Patent Application
Number <removed-apn> filed 12 January 2017, the content of which is also incorporated by
reference herein.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]      Electronic commerce, or e-commerce, may be characterized as the trading and/or
facilitation of trading of products and/or services online using computer networks, such as
the Internet. The products may be presented to a viewer or user on a website. Different
websites may have different formatting and/or may present information about the products
in different ways.

                                                2
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0003]     In one aspect, the present invention provides a device including a product analysis
platform, including one or more processors that obtain product information relating to one or
more products, the product information obtained from a plurality of websites on which the
one or more products are offered, wherein the product information is formatted, labeled,
and/or arranged differently in the plurality of websites and wherein the difference includes
different naming and/or different units of measure of a particular product, normalize the
product information to determine normalized product information, wherein the product
information is normalized to make the product information consistent such that items of the
normalized product information are used for further processing by the product analysis
platform, determine one or more product metrics based on the normalized product
information, generate a user interface based on the one or more product metrics and provide
the user interface for display, the user interface providing information relating to the one or
more product metrics, including the information in one or more of a line graph or a pie chart
and the user interface operable to permit a user to interact with the information relating to
the one or more product metrics, including selecting a line on the line graph or a slice of the
pie chart, detect the interaction with the user interface, determine an additional product
metric and/or one or more modified product metrics based upon the normalized product
information and based upon the interaction, and provide, for display via the user interface,
information relating to the additional and/or one or more modified product metrics.
[0004]     In another aspect, the present invention provides a non-transitory computer
readable medium storing instructions, the instructions including one or more instructions that,
when executed by one or more processors including a product analysis platform, cause the
one or more processors to obtain product information relating to one or more products, the
product information being obtained from a plurality of websites on which the one or more
products are offered or sold, wherein the product information is formatted, labelled, and/or
arranged differently in the plurality of websites, wherein the difference includes different
naming and/or different units of measure of a particular product, normalize the product
information to determine normalized product information, wherein the product information is
normalized to make the product information consistent such that items of the normalized

                                                3
product information are used for further processing by the product analysis platform,
determine one or more product metrics based on the normalized product information,
generate a user interface based on the one or more product metrics, and provide the user
interface for display, the user interface to provide information relating to the one or more
product metrics, including the information in one or more of a line graph or a pie chart and
the user interface to permit a user to interact with the information relating to the one or more
product metrics, including by selecting a line on the line graph or a slice of the pie chart,
detect the interaction with the user interface, determine an additional product metric and/or
one or more modified product metrics based upon the normalized product information and
based upon the interaction, and provide, for display via the user interface, information
relating to the additional and/or one or more modified product metrics.
[0005]      In yet another aspect, the present invention provides a computer-implemented
method including obtaining, by a product analysis platform, product information relating to
one or more products, the product information being obtained from a plurality of websites on
which the one or more products are offered or sold, wherein the product information is
formatted labeled, and/or arranged differently in the plurality of websites, wherein the
difference includes different naming and/or different units of measure of a particular product,
normalizing, by the product analysis platform, the product information to determine
normalized product information,      wherein the product information is normalized to make
product information consistent such that items of the normalized product information are
used for further processing by the product analysis platform, determining, by the product
analysis platform, one or more product metrics based on the normalized product information,
generating, by the product analysis platform, a user interface based on the one or more
product metrics and providing the user interface for display, the user interface to provide
information relating to the one or more product metrics associated with each product,
including the information in one or more of a line graph or a pie chart, and the user interface
to permit a user to interact with the information relating to the one or more product metrics,
including by selecting a line on the line graph or a slice of the pie chart, detecting by the
product analysis platform, the interaction with the user interface, determining, by the product
analysis platform, an additional product metric and/or one or more modified product metrics

                                              4
based upon the normalized product information and based upon the interaction, and
providing, by the product analysis platform, for display via the user interface, information
relating to the additional and/or one or more modified product metrics.

                                                5
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0006]     Figs. 1A and 1B are diagrams of an overview of an example implementation
described herein;
[0007]     Fig. 2 is a diagram of an example environment in which systems and/or methods,
described herein, may be implemented;
[0008]     Fig. 3 is a diagram of example components of one or more devices of Fig. 2;
[0009]     Fig. 4 is a flow chart of an example process for determining product metrics based
on normalized product information and providing a user interface based on the product
metrics; and
[0010]     Figs. 5A and 5B are diagrams of an example implementation relating to the
example process shown in Fig. 4.

                                                6
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENT(S) OF THE INVENTION
[0011]      The following detailed description of example implementations refers to the
accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify
the same or similar elements.
[0012]      Success of an entity may depend on activities of another entity. For example, the
success of a consumer packaged goods (CPG) provider may depend on the activities of a
retailer that sells products produced by the CPG provider and/or other products associated
with other entities (e.g., products produced by competitors of the CPG provider). As such, it
is important that the CPG provider have access to information associated with the activities
of the retailer with respect to both the products of the CPG provider and the other products
associated with other entities. For example, an entity associated with the CPG provider (e.g.,
a product manager, a brand manager, etc.) may wish to have access to information
associated with products offered or sold by the retailer, prices of the products offered or sold
by the retailer, product promotions run by the retailer, stock levels of the products offered or
sold by the retailer, brand content presentation associated with the products (e.g., a manner
in which brand content is provided and/or displayed to the consumer), or the like. Such
information may be important to the CPG provider when, for example, the CPG provider
negotiates with the retailer regarding selling products of the CPG company, monitors
products sold by the retailer, engages in brand protection, engages in internal allocation of
marketing and/or sales resources, or the like.
[0013]      However, accessing and/or understanding information associated with the
activities of the retailer, with respect to one or more products, may be difficult and/or time
consuming for the CPG provider. For example, the retailer may not provide such information
to the CPG provider and/or may not allow the CPG provider to access such information.
Moreover, even when this information is accessible by the CPG provider, the information
may not be regularly updated, which may lead to stale and/or outdated information being
used by the CPG provider. Moreover, a retailer may sell through multiple types of channels
(e.g., an online store, an online factory outlet store, a brick and mortar store, etc.) and this
adds additional complexity to the CPG provider obtaining accurate information.

                                                 7
[0014]      Additionally, the CPG provider may spend a significant amount of time and/or
resources (e.g., man-hours) analyzing such information and, even then, may have difficulty
gaining useful insights based on the information. For example, the CPG provider may have
difficulty gaining useful insights such as an overview of a product category with respect to
the CPG provider and a competitor, an overview of an online market associated with a
product, or the like.
[0015]      Implementations described herein may obtain and normalize product information
associated with a product sold by one or more entities, and may determine one or more
product metrics based on the normalized product information.           Further, implementations
described herein may provide, for display to a user, a user interface that includes information
associated with the one or more product metrics. The information associated with the one
or more product metrics may be formatted within the user interface to facilitate an entity to
easily interpret the product metrics.
[0016]      For example, the user interface may provide several important metrics (e.g., all of
a set of most important metrics) for the entity (e.g., a CPG provider), which may reduce
required user interaction to determine the several important metrics, improve decision
making based on the important metrics, and improve the user experience with the overview.
[0017]      This may improve efficiency and/or efficacy of activities of a CPG provider by
allowing the CPG provider to quickly and easily interpret information associated with one or
more products. For example, the user interface may include information that allows the CPG
provider to more efficiently and/or effectively monitor product distribution and/or product price
points, prepare for negotiations with the one or more retailers, or the like. As another
example, computing resources are conserved by reducing the number of interactions and
the amount of time spent by the user in trying to find the information.
[0018]      Furthermore, by using a cloud platform to obtain and normalize product
information, and to determine and provide information relating to product metrics,
implementations described herein reduce reliance on user input and reduce double-keying
and double-storage of information (e.g., product information and/or product metrics). In other
words, when the product information is stored using multiple, different data structures on

                                               8
different devices and/or generated based on respective user inputs to the different devices,
the product information may be unintentionally stored on redundant devices, and the same
product information may be entered on multiple devices. Implementations described herein
reduce occurrence of these situations.
[0019]      Notably, while implementations described herein are described in the context of a
CPG company/retailer domain, other implementations are possible. For example, these
implementations may also be applied to a production process domain in order to improve
efficiency of a production process by, for example, identifying a true per unit cost of materials,
associated with the production process, when a given type of material may be obtained from
multiple material vendors. This may allow the production process to operate more efficiently
and/or at a lower cost.
[0020]      Figs. 1A and 1B are diagrams of an overview of an example implementation 100
described herein. As shown in Fig. 1A, and by reference number 105, a cloud server device
may access multiple, different websites to obtain product information associated with
products offered by one or more providers. As shown, the cloud server device may access
a websitel.com, a website2.com, and a website3.com to obtain product information
associated with products offered by the websites. The websites, in some implementations,
are operated by different entities, such as by different companies, by different subsidiaries
of the same company, etc.
[0021]     As shown by reference number 110, the cloud server device (e.g., a cloud server
device of a product analysis platform, such as described with regard to Fig. 2) may normalize
the product information obtained from the websites to determine normalized product
information. For example, the cloud server device may normalize the product information,
based on a machine learning algorithm, to cause product identifiers, product pricing, product
categories, content, market information, labeling, or the like, to be consistent. Additionally,
or alternatively, the could server device may normalize the product information by performing
a product matching process (e.g., by matching a product, when offered for sale on a first
website, with the product when offered for sale on a second website).

                                                9
[0022]      As shown by reference number 115, the cloud server device may determine one
or more product metrics based on the normalized product information.              As shown by
reference number 120, the one or more product metrics may include a price trend metric, a
price distribution metric, a price target compliance metric, a historical competitor information
metric, or the like, as described in more detail elsewhere herein.
[0023]      As shown in Fig. 1B, and by reference number 125, the cloud server device may
generate a user interface (e.g., a product dashboard) based on the one or more product
metrics. As shown by reference number 130, the cloud server device may reconfigure the
user interface based on detecting user interactions with the user interface. As shown by
reference number 135, the cloud server device may provide the user interface to one or more
user devices for display.
[0024]      By obtaining product information associated with products offered by providers or
retailers, normalizing the product information, determining a product metric based on the
normalized product information, and providing information associated with the product metric
for display via a user interface, implementations described herein may assist an entity
associated with a CPG provider to easily and quickly interpret the information associated
with the product metrics. Thus, efficiency and/or efficacy of activities of the entity may be
improved. Furthermore, implementations described herein may reduce redundant entry and
storage of product information, thus conserving processor and storage resources of the user
devices and/or the cloud server device. Still further, implementations described herein may
perform calculations based on the product information and may perform an action based on
the calculations (e.g., may provide a notification to a retailer, may automatically reconfigure
a price of a product, etc.).
[0025]      As indicated above, Figs. 1A and 1B are provided merely as an example. Other
examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to Figs. 1A and
1B.
[0026]      Fig. 2 is a diagram of an example environment 200 in which systems and/or
methods described herein may be implemented. As shown in Fig. 2, environment 200 may
include one or more user devices 205, one or more server devices 210, a product analysis

                                                10
platform 215 hosted within a cloud computing environment 220, and a network 225. Devices
of environment 200 may interconnect via wired connections, wireless connections, or a
combination of wired and wireless connections.
[0027]      User device 205 includes one or more devices capable of receiving, generating,
storing, processing, and/or providing information associated with product analysis platform
215, such as information associated with a product dashboard (e.g., including information
associated with one or more product metrics) provided by product analysis platform 215. For
example, user device 205 may include a communication and computing device, such as a
mobile phone (e.g., a smart phone, a radiotelephone, etc.), a laptop computer, a desktop
computer, a tablet computer, a handheld computer, a wearable communication device (e.g.,
a smart wristwatch, a pair of smart eyeglasses, etc.), or a similar type of device.
[0028]      Server device 210 includes one or more devices capable of receiving, storing,
and/or providing product information for use by product analysis platform 215. For example,
server device 210 may include a server or a group of servers. In some implementations,
server device 210 may include a device that hosts a website associated with an entity that
offers or sells one or more products. In some implementations, product analysis platform
215 may obtain product information, associated with the one or more products, from server
device 210.
[0029]      Product analysis platform 215 includes one or more devices capable of obtaining
product information, normalizing the product information, determining one or more product
metrics, and providing information associated with the one or more product metrics, as
described elsewhere herein.       For example, product analysis platform 215 may include a
server or a group of servers. In some implementations, product analysis platform 215 may
be designed to be modular such that certain software components can be swapped in or out
depending on a particular need.        For example, a normalizing module, associated with
normalizing obtained product information, may be configured in a first manner (e.g., with a
first set of rules) for normalizing product information associated with a first industry (e.g., a
beverage industry), and may be configured in a second manner (e.g., with a second set of
rules) for normalizing product information associated with a second industry (e.g., a sporting

                                             11
goods industry). The normalizing module may then be swapped in or out, as needed. As
such, product analysis platform 215 may be adaptable and easily and/or quickly reconfigured
for different uses.
[0030]      In some implementations, as shown, product analysis platform 215 may be hosted
in cloud computing environment 220.       Notably, while implementations described herein
describe product analysis platform 215 as being hosted in cloud computing environment 220,
in some implementations, product analysis platform 215 may not be cloud-based (i.e., may
be implemented outside of a cloud computing environment) or may be partially cloud-based.
[0031]      Cloud computing environment 220 includes an environment that hosts product
analysis platform 215.     Cloud computing environment 220 may provide computation,
software, data access, storage, etc. services that do not require end-user (e.g., user device
205) knowledge of a physical location and configuration of system(s) and/or device(s) that
hosts product analysis platform 215. As shown, cloud computing environment 220 may
include a group of computing resources 222 (referred to collectively as "computing resources
222" and individually as "computing resource 222").
[0032]      Computing resource 222 includes one or more personal computers, workstation
computers, server devices, or another type of computation and/or communication device. In
some implementations, computing resource 222 may host product analysis platform 215.
The cloud resources may include compute instances executing in computing resource 222,
storage devices provided in computing resource 222, data transfer devices provided by
computing resource 222, etc.      In some implementations, computing resource 222 may
communicate with other computing resources 222 via wired connections, wireless
connections, or a combination of wired and wireless connections.
[0033]      As further shown in Fig. 2, computing resource 222 includes a group of cloud
resources, such as one or more applications ("APPs") 222-1, one or more virtual machines
("VMs") 222-2, virtualized storage ("VSs") 222-3, one or more hypervisors ("HYPs") 222-4,
or the like.

                                                12
[0034]       Application 222-1 includes one or more software applications that may be provided
to or accessed by user device 205. Application 222-1 may eliminate a need to install and
execute the software applications on user device 205. For example, application 222-1 may
include software associated with product analysis platform 215 and/or any other software
capable of being provided via cloud computing environment 220. In some implementations,
one application 222-1 may send/receive information to/from one or more other applications
222-1, via virtual machine 222-2.
[0035]       Virtual machine 222-2 includes a software implementation of a machine (e.g., a
computer) that executes programs like a physical machine. Virtual machine 222-2 may be
either a system virtual machine or a process virtual machine, depending upon use and
degree of correspondence to any real machine by virtual machine 222-2. A system virtual
machine may provide a complete system platform that supports execution of a complete
operating system ("OS"). A process virtual machine may execute a single program, and may
support a single process. In some implementations, virtual machine 222-2 may execute on
behalf of a user (e.g., user device 205), and may manage infrastructure of cloud computing
environment 220, such as data management, synchronization, or long-duration data
transfers.
[0036]       Virtualized storage 222-3 includes one or more storage systems and/or one or
more devices that use virtualization techniques within the storage systems or devices of
computing resource 222. In some implementations, within the context of a storage system,
types of virtualizations may include block virtualization and file virtualization.         Block
virtualization may refer to abstraction (or separation) of logical storage from physical storage
so that the storage system may be accessed without regard to physical storage or
heterogeneous structure. The separation may permit administrators of the storage system
flexibility in how the administrators manage storage for end users. File virtualization may
eliminate dependencies between data accessed at a file level and a location where files are
physically stored. This may enable optimization of storage use, server consolidation, and/or
performance of non-disruptive file migrations.

                                                13
[0037]      Hypervisor 222-4 provides hardware virtualization techniques that allow multiple
operating systems (e.g., "guest operating systems") to execute concurrently on a host
computer, such as computing resource 222.           Hypervisor 222-4 may present a virtual
operating platform to the guest operating systems, and may manage the execution of the
guest operating systems. Multiple instances of a variety of operating systems may share
virtualized hardware resources.
[0038]      Network 225 includes one or more wired and/or wireless networks. For example,
network 225 may include a cellular network (e.g., a long-term evolution (LTE) network, a 3G
network, a code division multiple access (CDMA) network, etc.), a public land mobile network
(PLMN), a local area network (LAN), a wide area network (WAN), a metropolitan area
network (MAN), a telephone network (e.g., the Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN)),
a private network, an ad hoc network, an intranet, the Internet, a fiber optic-based network,
or the like, and/or a combination of these or other types of networks.
[0039]      The number and arrangement of devices and networks shown in Fig. 2 are
provided as an example.        In practice, there may be additional devices, fewer devices,
different devices, or differently arranged devices than those shown in Fig. 2. Furthermore,
two or more devices shown in Fig. 2 may be implemented within a single device, or a single
device shown in Fig. 2 may be implemented as multiple, distributed devices. Additionally,
one or more of the devices of environment 200 may perform one or more functions described
as being performed by another one or more devices of environment 200.
[0040]      Fig. 3 is a diagram of example components of a device 300. Device 300 may
correspond to user device 205 and/or server device 210. In some implementations, user
device 205 and/or server device 210 may include one or more devices 300 and/or one or
more components of device 300. As shown in Fig. 3, device 300 may include a bus 310, a
processor 320, a memory 330, a storage component 340, an input component 350, an output
component 360, and a communication interface 370.
[0041]      Bus 310 includes a component that permits communication               among   the
components of device 300.        Processor 320 is implemented in hardware, firmware, or a
combination of hardware and software. Processor 320 includes a processor (e.g., a central

                                                14
processing unit (CPU), a graphics processing unit (GPU), and/or an accelerated processing
unit (APU)), a microprocessor, a microcontroller, and/or any processing component (e.g., a
field-programmable gate array (FPGA) and/or an application-specific integrated circuit
(ASIC)) that interprets and/or executes instructions. In some implementations, processor
320 includes one or more processors capable of being programmed to perform a function.
Memory 330 includes a random access memory (RAM), a read only memory (ROM), and/or
another type of dynamic or static storage device (e.g., a flash memory, a magnetic memory,
and/or an optical memory) that stores information and/or instructions for use by processor
320.
[0042]      Storage component 340 stores information and/or software related to the
operation and use of device 300. For example, storage component 340 may include a hard
disk (e.g., a magnetic disk, an optical disk, a magneto-optic disk, and/or a solid state disk),
a compact disc (CD), a digital versatile disc (DVD), a floppy disk, a cartridge, a magnetic
tape, and/or another type of non-transitory computer-readable medium, along with a
corresponding drive.
[0043]      Input component 350 includes a component that permits device 300 to receive
information, such as via user input (e.g., a touch screen display, a keyboard, a keypad, a
mouse, a button, a switch, and/or a microphone).            Additionally, or alternatively, input
component 350 may include a sensor for sensing information (e.g., a global positioning
system (GPS) component, an accelerometer, a gyroscope, and/or an actuator).               Output
component 360 includes a component that provides output information from device 300 (e.g.,
a display, a speaker, and/or one or more light-emitting diodes (LEDs)).
[0044]      Communication interface 370 includes a transceiver-like component (e.g., a
transceiver and/or a separate receiver and transmitter) that enables device 300 to
communicate with other devices, such as via a wired connection, a wireless connection, or
a combination of wired and wireless connections. Communication interface 370 may permit
device 300 to receive information from another device and/or provide information to another
device. For example, communication interface 370 may include an Ethernet interface, an
optical interface, a coaxial interface, an infrared interface, a radio frequency (RF) interface,

                                               15
a universal serial bus (USB) interface, a Wi-Fi interface, a cellular network interface, or the
like.
[0045]     Device 300 may perform one or more processes described herein. Device 300
may perform these processes in response to processor 320 executing software instructions
stored by a non-transitory computer-readable medium, such as memory 330 and/or storage
component 340. A computer-readable medium is defined herein as a non-transitory memory
device. A memory device includes memory space within a single physical storage device or
memory space spread across multiple physical storage devices.
[0046]     Software instructions may be read into memory 330 and/or storage component
340 from another computer-readable medium or from another device via communication
interface 370. When executed, software instructions stored in memory 330 and/or storage
component 340 may cause processor 320 to perform one or more processes described
herein.   Additionally, or alternatively, hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in
combination with software instructions to perform one or more processes described herein.
Thus, implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of
hardware circuitry and software.
[0047]     The number and arrangement of components shown in Fig. 3 are provided as an
example. In practice, device 300 may include additional components, fewer components,
different components, or differently arranged components than those shown in Fig. 3.
Additionally, or alternatively, a set of components (e.g., one or more components) of device
300 may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another set of
components of device 300.
[0048]     Fig. 4 is a flow chart of an example process 400 for determining product metrics
based on normalized product information and providing a user interface based on the product
metrics. In some implementations, one or more process blocks of Fig. 4 may be performed
by product analysis platform 215. In some implementations, one or more process blocks of
Fig. 4 may be performed by another device or a group of devices separate from or including
product analysis platform 215, such as user device 205 and/or server device 210.

                                                  16
[0049]      As shown in Fig. 4, process 400 may include obtaining product information
associated with products offered by one or more providers (block 410). For example, product
analysis platform 215 may obtain product information associated with products offered by
one or more providers. The products may be offered for sale, for rent, or the like. In some
implementations, the one or more providers may be associated with a CPG provider, may
be retailers that offer a CPG product for sale, or the like.
[0050]      In some implementations, product analysis platform 215 may obtain the product
information from multiple websites associated with a provider. For example, product analysis
platform 215 may be configured with a software-implemented process or program (e.g., a
robot) designed to scrape one or more websites, associated with the provider, in order to
obtain the product information. As described herein, scraping may refer to the process of
extracting information from the one or more websites (e.g., based on text recognition, optical
character recognition, etc.). In some implementations, the process or program may obtain
additional information associated with the website (e.g., an image of a webpage on the
website, a time at which the webpage was accessed, or the like). In some implementations,
product analysis platform 215 may obtain the product information based on user input (e.g.,
based on crowdsourcing, based on inputs by a worker, etc.).
[0051]      In some implementations, the websites may be associated with different entities
and/or may have different domain names. Additionally, or alternatively, the websites may be
unaffiliated with each other, may be associated with different geographic locations, may be
associated with different retailers, or the like.
[0052]      In some implementations, the product information may include information that
identifies a product offered or sold by a provider (e.g., a name, a product identifier, such as
a serial number, a model number, etc.). In some implementations, the product information
may include information associated with or identifying a brand of a product, such as a name,
a logo, a tagline, a typeface, or the like.
[0053]      In some implementations, the product information may include information that
identifies a category and/or sub-category of a product.       The category may include, for
example, a beauty and health category, a beverage category, an electronics category, a

                                                17
clothing and jewelry category, a food category, a home and garden category, a sports and
outdoors category, a toys category, or the like.        For example, if the product information
indicates that a product is associated with a beverage category, the product information may
identify a subcategory, associated with the product, of beer, soda, juice, water, or the like.
[0054]      In some implementations, the product information may identify or relate to a price
of a product. For example, the product information may identify a price of the product, a
currency of the price of the product, or the like. In some implementations, the product
information may identify a price per unit associated with the product.        For example, the
product information may include information that indicates whether the price measure is a
price per liter, per gallon, per kilogram, or the like. As yet another example of product
information relating to price, the product information may indicate whether a product price is
a retail price, a wholesale price, or the like. As still another example of product information
relating to price, the product information may include information that identifies a volume
discount price for the product. For example, the product information may indicate whether a
price of the product is based on a particular quantity being purchased or offered for sale.
[0055]      In some implementations, the product information may include information that
identifies promotional information associated with a product.        For example, the product
information may indicate that a product is associated with a buy-one-get-one free promotion,
a half-price promotion, a package of multiple, different products, a group purchase discount,
or the like.
[0056]      In some implementations, the product information may include information that
identifies a stock level associated with the product. For example, the product information
may indicate an amount of the product in the provider's inventory, may indicate that the
provider is out of stock of the product, or the like.
[0057]      In some implementations, the product information may include information that
identifies a location associated with the product. For example, the product information may
include information that identifies a geographic location from which the product may be
shipped by the provider, a geographical area in which the product is available, or the like.

                                                18
[0058]      In some implementations, the product information may include review information
associated with the product. For example, the product information may include content of
consumer reviews of the product on a provider website, an aggregate score of reviews
associated with the product, an expert's review of the product, or the like.
[0059]      In some implementations, the product information may include information that
identifies a unit of measure associated with the product.             For example, the product
information may indicate that the product is offered for sale per unit, per kilogram, per case,
or the like. In some implementations, the product information may include information that
identifies a packaging type. For example, the product information may include information
that indicates whether the product is packaged in bulk, in a resealable package, in shrink
wrap, or the like.
[0060]      In some implementations, the product information may include information relating
to a trade segment and/or a channel. A provider may be associated with a particular trade
segment or channel based on characteristics of a website or business associated with the
provider (e.g., a size and/or format of a physical store associated with the website or
business, a pricing scheme of the website or business, a type of products sold by the website
or business, etc.). For the purpose of implementations described herein, "trade segment"
and "channel" are used interchangeably.
[0061]     As one example, a trade segment or channel may include an e-commerce trade
segment. An e-commerce trade segment may correspond to providers that offer products
of a particular type for sale online. Additionally, or alternatively, a trade segment or channel
may include a hard discounter channel. For example, a hard discounter channel may offer
products through stores that are engaged in the sale of grocery items and that have a
stocking policy that focuses on a high private label share, low prices, a relatively limited
number of stock keeping units (SKUs)), or the like.
[0062]     Additionally, or alternatively, a trade segment or channel may include a
hypermarket channel.       For example, a hypermarket channel may offer products through
retailers with floor areas greater than a particular threshold size (e.g., greater than

                                                 19
approximately 2,500 square meters, greater than approximately 5,000 square meters, etc.)
that may carry full lines of groceries, general merchandise, or the like.
[0063]     Additionally, or alternatively, a trade segment or channel may include a
supermarket channel.       For example, a supermarket channel may offer products through
retailers with floor areas of a particular range of sizes (e.g., approximately 300 square meters
to 2,500 square meters, or a different range) that offer a wide, departmentalized range of
groceries, that may carry some general merchandise lines, or the like.
[0064]     The examples of product information, given above, are just that - examples.
These examples of product information may be used individually or in combination. Other
examples of product information are possible, and implementations described herein are not
intended to be limited to the above examples of product information.
[0065]      In some implementations, product analysis platform 215 may obtain product
information associated with a subscriber, which may be any entity that may subscribe to the
services provided by product analysis platform 215 (e.g., determination of product metrics,
generation of a user interface or product dashboard, etc.). For example, product analysis
platform 215 may obtain product information associated with products offered by the
subscriber (e.g., from a website associated with the subscriber, from a database associated
with the subscriber, based on a user input received from the subscriber, or the like).
[0066]      In some implementations, product analysis platform 215 may automatically (e.g.,
without user intervention) obtain the product information.          For example, an automated
process or entity (e.g., a robot, a web scraping tool, etc.) may automatically obtain
information from the one or more websites. Additionally, or alternatively, product analysis
platform 215 may periodically (e.g., every 24 hours, every seven days, etc.) obtain the
product information. Additionally, or alternatively, product analysis platform 215 may obtain
the product information based on a user input and/or based on information provided by a
device associated with the provider website, such as a server device that hosts the provider's
website. Additionally, or alternatively, product analysis platform 215 may obtain product
information based on receiving an interaction with a user interface, such as the product
dashboard, as described in more detail elsewhere herein.

                                               20
[0067]     As further shown in Fig. 4, process 400 may include normalizing the product
information to determine normalized product information (block 420). For example, product
analysis platform 215 may normalize the product information to determine normalized
product information. In some implementations, product analysis platform 215 may apply an
automated data normalization process to the product information in order to normalize the
product information such that the product information is in a format that is usable for further
processing by product analysis platform 215.       Because the product information may be
obtained from different sources (e.g., different websites, different providers, etc.), the product
information may be formatted, labeled, and/or arranged differently.            Product analysis
platform 215 may normalize the product information to ensure that the formatting, labeling,
and/or arrangement of the product information is usable for further processing by product
analysis platform 215.
[0068]     As an example, a particular product may be named and/or categorized differently
across multiple provider websites. In some implementations, product analysis platform 215
may process this product information such that the product is named and/or categorized
consistently. As another example, a particular unit of measure may be used differently
across multiple provider websites. For example, a first website may identify a size of a
product in terms of liters, and a second website may identify a size of a product in terms of
quarts. Product analysis platform 215 may normalize this product information such that the
units of measure are consistent.
[0069]     In some implementations, product analysis platform 215 may normalize the
product information based on a set of rules stored or accessible by product analysis platform
215. Each rule, of the set of rules, may be applied to the product information. Based on
applying the set of rules, product analysis platform 215 may normalize (e.g., harmonize,
make consistent) the product information such that items of normalized product information
may be used for further processing. As an example, after application of the set of rules,
normalized product information for a product that is offered via a first website and via a
second website may be consistent such that a product name, a brand name associated with
the product, a pack size associated with the product, or the like, are consistently defined
across the normalized product information.

                                               21
[0070]     As another example, one or more rules may correspond to a product category.
For example, product analysis platform 215 may identify a product category associated with
product information, and may apply one or more rules, associated with the product category,
to normalize the product information. Thus, computing resources are conserved by properly
normalizing the product information the first time.
[0071]     In some implementations, normalizing the product information may include filtering
the product information (e.g., to remove unwanted product information).         For example,
product analysis platform 215 may filter the product information based on user instructions
specifying product information to filter. As another example, product analysis platform 215
may automatically filter the product information based on a past interaction with the product
information. For instance, if a user has previously interacted with first product information
more than with second product information via a user interface, product analysis platform
215 may filter the product information to remove the second product information.           By
automatically filtering the product information, product analysis platform 215 saves
processor/storage resources that would otherwise be used to process and store a greater
quantity of product information.
[0072]     As yet another example, product analysis platform 215 may filter product
information based on a product category. For example, product analysis platform 215 may
determine whether product information is associated with a first product category or a second
product category. When the product information is associated with the first product category,
product analysis platform 215 may filter first information. When the product information is
associated with the second product category, product analysis platform 215 may filter second
information. In this way, processor resources are conserved that would otherwise be used
to process unfiltered product information.
[0073]     In some implementations, product analysis platform 215 may normalize the
product information based on a machine learning process and/or a model.         For example,
product analysis platform 215 may train a model based on a machine learning process to
generate normalized product information (e.g., based on a training set of un-normalized
product information and normalized product information corresponding to the un-normalized

                                               22
product information).    By training the model, product analysis platform 215 improves
accuracy of the normalization process, which conserves computing resources used in the
normalization process.
[0074]      Product analysis platform 215 may update the model based on feedback
associated with the normalized product information and/or based on additional normalized
product information (e.g., as part of another training set). In some implementations, product
analysis platform 215 may receive feedback based on a user interaction with the normalized
product information.     For example, a user may specify whether normalized product
information is accurate, and the machine learning process may be updated based on
whether the normalized product information is accurate. Using the machine learning process
and/or model in this way may improve the accuracy of normalized product information,
thereby reducing wasted time and processor resources relating to inaccurate normalized
product information.
[0075]      Normalizing the product information as described herein also may reduce an
amount of resources (e.g., processing resources, memory resources, etc.) needed to store
and/or analyze the product information. As such, product analysis platform 215 may more
efficiently determine product metrics based on the normalized product information than when
using product information that has not been normalized.
[0076]      In some implementations, product analysis platform 215 may store normalized
product information in a particular data structure.      For example, a data structure for a
particular product or product type may have entries corresponding to values of the product
information obtained from different webpages. As each value of the product information is
normalized to match a corresponding entry, each value may be added to the data structure
at the corresponding entry.     Thus, normalized product information is stored in a data
structure.    In some implementations, as product information or a format of product
information changes, the data structure and/or a normalization process to cause the may be
updated according to a machine learning approach or another approach, as described in
more detail elsewhere herein.

                                                 23
[0077]      As further shown in Fig. 4, process 400 may include determining one or more
product metrics based on the normalized product information (block 430). For example,
product analysis platform 215 may determine one or more product metrics based on the
normalized product information. A product metric may include one or more values that are
determined based on comparing normalized product information from two or more retailers,
two or more webpages, two or more time intervals, or the like. In some implementations, the
product metric may include information that may be important (e.g., useful, relevant, or the
like) to a particular type of entity (e.g., a CPG company) and/or for a particular product
category.
[0078]      In some implementations, product analysis platform 215 may select one or more
product metrics to be determined based on configuration information identifying the one or
more product metrics, based on a past user interaction, or the like. For example, when
product analysis platform 215 determines that a user has previously interacted with particular
product metrics via a user interface, product analysis platform 215 may select the particular
product metrics to be determined and provided via the user interface. As another example,
product analysis platform 215 may select the particular product metrics based on a product
category associated with the one or more products. In this way, product analysis platform
215 conserves processor resources that would otherwise be used to determine undesired or
irrelevant product metrics.
[0079]      In some implementations, a product metric may be a pricing metric. For example,
the pricing metric may include a price measurement metric, such as a price per unit, a price
per liter, a price per offer, or the like. In some implementations, a product metric may be a
price trend metric. For example, the price trend metric may identify an average price per
day, a change in a price over a time period, or the like. In some implementations, a product
metric may be a price distribution metric. For example, the price distribution metric may
identify a price distribution across trade segments or channels (e.g., by comparing a product
price associated with a supermarket trade segment to a product price associated with a hard
discounter trade segment).

                                              24
[0080]      In some implementations, a product metric may be a compliance metric.           A
compliance metric may indicate whether product information satisfies a rule or threshold.
For example, the compliance metric may include a minimum advertised pricing (MAP)
compliance metric, a brand compliance metric (e.g., relating to a name of a product,
presentation of a product, etc.), a stock compliance metric (e.g., relating to a quantity of
product offered for sale), or the like.
[0081]      The examples of product metrics, given above, are just that - examples. These
examples of product metrics may be used individually or in combination. Other examples of
product metrics are possible, and implementations described herein are not intended to be
limited to the above examples of product metrics.
[0082]      In some implementations, product analysis platform 215 may determine the
product metric based on applying one or more algorithms to the normalized product
information. For example, product analysis platform 215 may determine a price per unit
product metric by determining an average price of a product (e.g., across multiple provider
websites and/or providers) based on the normalized product information, and by dividing the
average price by a unit of measure (e.g., liter, kilogram, or the like.), associated with the
product, identified in the normalized product information.
[0083]      In some implementations, product analysis platform 215 may determine a product
metric using a machine learning process and/or a model. For example, product analysis
platform 215 may train a model based on a machine learning process to generate product
metrics (e.g., based on a training set of normalized product information and product metrics
corresponding to the normalized product information).        By training the model, product
analysis platform 215 improves accuracy of the product metrics.              Additionally, or
alternatively, product analysis platform 215 may identify product metrics to be generated
based on the model. For example, based on user interactions and/or requests relating to
particular product metrics, product analysis platform 215 may train the model to determine
the particular product metrics. Thus, product analysis platform 215 conserves processor
resources that would otherwise be used to determine unwanted product metrics.

                                                 25
[0084]      In some implementations, product analysis platform 215 may update the model
(e.g., based on feedback associated with the determined product metric, based on another
training set, etc.) such that the model may learn and become more accurate over time. In
some implementations, product analysis platform 215 may receive feedback from a user,
and may update the model based on the feedback. For example, product analysis platform
215 may receive feedback on the product metrics, to be used to update the model
implemented by product analysis platform 215.          The feedback may include information
indicating user interactions with particular product metrics, information indicating which
product metrics are correct, information indicating one or more other product metrics
requested by a client, or the like.
[0085]      As another example, an entity associated with product analysis platform 215 may
determine whether the product metrics are correct and may provide feedback to improve
calculation of the product metrics. By determining the product metrics using the machine
learning process and/or model, product analysis platform 215 may conserve processor
resources that would otherwise be used to calculate inaccurate or irrelevant product metrics.
[0086]      In some implementations, product analysis platform 215 may combine two or more
product metrics to determine a combined metric (e.g., based on a weighted combination,
based on an unweighted combination, etc.). In such a case, product analysis platform 215
may determine weights to be applied to the two or more product metrics based on past user
interactions with one or more product metrics.
[0087]      In some implementations, product analysis platform 215 may generate a score for
a particular product metric, and may provide information for display via a user interface based
on the score. For example, the score may indicate whether the particular product metric is
likely to be important to a user, is likely to be associated with a user interaction, or the like.
When product analysis platform 215 provide the one or more product metrics for display,
product analysis platform 215 may provide additional information based on the score (e.g.,
color coding, highlighting, etc.) to draw attention of a user to the particular product metric.
Thus, product analysis platform 215 conserves computing resources that would otherwise

                                                26
be used to provide the user interface to a user for a greater length of time than when attention
of the user is drawn to the particular product metric.
[0088]     As further shown in Fig. 4, process 400 may include providing information
associated with the one or more product metrics for display via a user interface (block 440).
For example, product analysis platform 215 may provide information associated with one or
more product metrics for display via a user interface. In some implementations, the user
interface may include a product dashboard in which information associated with one or more
product metrics can be provided for display. For example, the user interface may include
one or more graphical and/or tabular representations (e.g., graphs, charts, reports, or the
like), associated with one or more product metrics corresponding to one or more products
and/or product categories.
[0089]     In some implementations, product analysis platform 215 may select a user
interface template, of a set of user interface templates, based on which to generate a user
interface. For example, the information provided for display via the user interface (e.g., a set
of product metrics), the layout of the product dashboard, and/or the design of the product
dashboard may be based on a user interface template, which may be selected based on a
domain associated with the user and/or a product category associated with the one or more
products. As another example, for a user in the CPG domain, product analysis platform 215
may generate a user interface based on a user interface template to include information
associated with a particular set of product metrics associated with the CPG industry. The
particular set of product metrics may include, for example, information that identifies a
product, a brand associated with a product, promotional information associated with a
product, or the like.
[0090]     Additionally, or alternatively, the user interface template may be selected based
on information associated with a particular product, such as a product category.             For
example, the user interface may provide information associated with a first set of product
metrics for a product of a first product category, and may provide information associated with
a second set of product metrics for a product of a second product category. Thus, computing
resources are conserved based on filtering the information to be provided to a user and

                                               27
based on providing useful information to the user, which reduces an amount of time the user
spends to analyze the information.
[0091]      In some implementations, product analysis platform 215 may store or have access
to information that identifies sets of product metrics to be displayed for a particular domain,
a particular product category, or the like. Product analysis platform 215 may receive or
determine information identifying the particular domain, the particular product category, or
the like. For example, product analysis platform 215 may identify the particular domain or
product category based on the product information associated with a product, based on user
input that identifies the particular domain or product category, based on information
associating particular products with the particular dome or product category, based on
subscriber information associated with a subscriber to which the user interface is to be
provided, or the like.
[0092]      In other words, product analysis platform 215 may configure the user interface
according to, for example, a particular industry, a product category, a type of sales channel,
or the like. In some implementations, the user interface may provide a user (e.g., a product
manager, a brand manager, etc.) with an integrated view of information needed to support
making business decisions. For example, the user interface may include a chart showing a
set of price trend metrics for a set of products. The chart may show the price trend metrics
for a particular date range, and may show the price trend metrics in relation to each other.
Using the price trend metrics shown in this way on a single display or interface, a brand
manager, for example, may easily compare the price trend metrics. The brand manager
may then use the comparison of price trend metrics in negotiations with providers, when
making decisions regarding building value into a brand, or the like.
[0093]      In some implementations, product analysis platform 215 may provide a product
metric or other information for display based on user input. For example, a user (e.g., a
product manager, a brand manager, etc.) may select (e.g., via one or more input elements
of the user interface) one or more filters corresponding to one or more product metrics that
the user wishes to view. In such a case, product analysis platform 215 may provide the one
or more product metrics, and/or information relating to the one or more product metrics, for

                                               28
display based on the user input. Additionally, or alternatively, product analysis platform 215
may detect an interaction with a portion of the user interface corresponding to a particular
product metric, and may determine and/or provide an additional product metric and/or one
or more modified product metrics based on detecting the interaction.              Additionally, or
alternatively, product analysis platform 215 may detect an interaction with a portion of the
user interface corresponding to a particular product metric, and may obtain and/or provide
additional product information based on detecting the interaction.
[0094]      In some implementations, product analysis platform 215 may receive, via the user
interface, an interaction with a product metric and/or information associated with a product
metric (e.g., by selecting a line on a line graph, a slice of a pie chart, etc.). In such a case,
product analysis platform 215 may provide, for display, additional information associated with
the selected product metric. For example, product analysis platform 215 may provide the
normalized product information corresponding to the product metric. Here, the user may
further interact with the normalized product information, and product analysis platform 215
may provide additional information associated with the normalized product information, such
as an image of a particular website from which the normalized product information originated,
a more precise value of the normalized product information, or the like.                 In some
implementations, product analysis platform 215 may provide timing information associated
with the selected normalized product information, such as a date and/or a time at which the
product information was obtained. In some implementations, product analysis platform 215
may provide links to websites from which product information is obtained, to permit a user to
access the websites.
[0095]      In some implementations, product analysis platform 215 may provide access to
the user interface using a subscription-based model (e.g., the user may periodically pay a
fee for access to the user interface and/or the one or more product metrics). This may allow
for simplified access to the user interface.     For example, the user may not need to be
concerned with other fees associated with accessing and/or determining the product metric,
such as software licenses to the robot, database and visualization costs, hosting and storage
cost, maintenance of application programming interfaces (APIs), integrations, software
updates, security, or the like.

                                               29
[0096]      In some implementations, product analysis platform 215 may cause one or more
actions to be automatically (e.g., without user intervention) performed based on the
determined product metric. For example, if product analysis platform 215 determines that a
stock compliance metric satisfies a threshold (e.g., when a quantity of product inventory is
less than a particular amount), then product analysis platform 215 may cause a product
shipment to be automatically initiated (e.g., by automatically creating and providing a product
shipment order). Thus, computing resources are conserved that would otherwise be used
to generate and send the product shipment order (e.g., manually, based on manual input,
etc.).
[0097]      As another example, if product analysis platform 215 determines that a compliance
metric (e.g., a brand compliance metric, a MAP compliance metric, etc.) satisfies a threshold
(e.g., is less than or more than a particular amount), product analysis platform 215 may
cause a message to be automatically provided, a meeting to be automatically scheduled
(e.g., on a calendar of a product manager), or the like. Thus, computing resources are
conserved that would otherwise be used to generate the message and/or schedule a meeting
(e.g., manually, based on manual input, etc.).
[0098]      As yet another example, if product analysis platform 215 determines that a price
measurement metric satisfies a threshold (e.g., is higher or lower than a threshold amount),
then product analysis platform 215 may cause a message (e.g., a text message, an email,
an audio message, etc.) to be automatically provided to one or more providers (e.g.,
including a request to raise or lower the price of the product). Thus, computing resources
are conserved that would otherwise be used to generate and send the message (e.g.,
manually, based on manual input, etc.).
[0099]      As still another example, if product analysis platform 215 determines that a first
price measurement metric, associated with a product of the CPG provider, is greater than a
second price measurement metric, associated with a product of a competitor of the CPG
provider, then product analysis platform 215 may cause a message to be automatically
provided to one or more providers (e.g., including a request to lower the price of the product),
may cause a price increase to occur with regard to the product of the CPG provider, may

                                              30
cause the product of the CPG provider to no longer be offered for sale, may cause an
advertisement to be distributed that relates to the product of the CPG provider, or the like.
Thus, computing resources are conserved that would otherwise be used to perform such
actions based on manual input.
[00100]    In this way, product analysis platform 215 may obtain and normalize product
information associated with a product offered by one or more entities.        Product analysis
platform 215 may determine one or more product metrics based on normalized product
information, and may provide a user interface that provides information (e.g., graphs, charts,
metrics, reports, etc.) associated with the one or more product metrics. The user interface
may allow an entity to easily interpret the information associated with the product metrics,
which may improve efficiency and/or efficacy of activities of the entity by allowing the entity
to quickly and easily interpret information associated with one or more products.
[00101]    Further, by automatically normalizing product information, product analysis
platform 215 may save processor and/or storage resources that would otherwise be used to
process and store a greater quantity of product information. By using feedback to refine the
normalized product information, product analysis platform 215 may improve accuracy of
normalized product information, thereby reducing wasted time and processor resources
relating to inaccurate or unnecessary normalized product information.          By determining
whether product metrics are correct, and providing feedback to improve calculation of
product metrics, product analysis platform 215 may conserve processor resources that would
otherwise be used to calculate inaccurate or unnecessary product metrics.
[00102]    Although Fig. 4 shows example blocks of process 400, in some implementations,
process 400 may include additional blocks, fewer blocks, different blocks, or differently
arranged blocks than those depicted in Fig. 4. Additionally, or alternatively, two or more of
the blocks of process 400 may be performed in parallel.
[00103]    Figs. 5A and 5B are diagrams of an example implementation 500 relating to
example process 400 shown in Fig. 4. Figs. 5A and 5B show an example of a user interface,
such as a product dashboard. Product analysis platform 215 may generate the user interface
based on normalized product information and/or based on one or more product metrics

                                                 31
determined based on the normalized product information, as described in more detail
elsewhere herein. Here, Fig. 5A shows a summary view of the user interface, and Fig. 5B
shows a view of the user interface that provides product information and/or product metrics
in a tabular form.
[00104]     As shown in Fig. 5A, and by reference number 502, the user interface may permit
a user to specify a start date and/or an end date for product metrics to be provided for display
via the user interface. Here, the start date includes a value of 22-12-2015, and the end date
includes a value of 27-12-2015. These dates may be used to filter the product information
such that only product information for the selected dates may be provided. This conserves
computing resources by reducing the amount of product information that is presented for
display.
[00105]     As shown by reference number 504, the user interface may include one or more
input elements associated with product information and/or product metrics.              The input
elements may permit a user to select one or more filters in order to configure the user
interface. The filters may be used to filter the product information (e.g., to identify unwanted
product information that is not to be provided for display) and/or to identify one or more
product metrics that the user wishes to view.         This conserves computing resources by
reducing the amount of product information that is presented for display. As shown, the
filters may include a price measure filter, a brand filter, a product filter, a unit of measure
filter, a pack size filter, a pack type filter, a trade segment filter, a chain filter, a channel
compliance filter, a price compliance filter, and a promotions filter.
[00106]     As shown by reference number 506, the user interface may include product input
elements corresponding to products (e.g., product 1 through product 15). A user may select
one or more products using the product input elements.            Based on the product input
elements, product analysis platform 215 may filter product information (e.g., to remove
unwanted product information associated with products that are not selected) and may
identify one or more product metrics associated with selected products. Product analysis
platform 215 may provide product information associated with the selected products, and
may filter product information associated with the unselected products.          This conserves

                                                32
computing resources by reducing the amount of product information that is presented for
display.   In some implementations, the product input elements may be associated with
respective colors, patterns, or the like, that may identify product information and/or product
metrics associated with the product input elements.
[00107]     As shown by reference number 508, the user interface may provide information
relating to a share of products product metric. The share of products product metric may
identify a number of unique products offered in a market per brand per day. The share of
products product metric may be generated based on a user selecting the appropriate input
elements shown by reference number 504 and/or selecting a date range, as shown by
reference number 502.
[00108]     As shown by reference number 510, the user interface may provide information
relating to a share of promotions product metric. The share of promotions product metric
may identify a quantity of promotions offered in a particular market with regard to a particular
product in a particular period of time.
[00109]     In some implementations, different product metrics may be associated with
different presentation styles or graphical representations.      For example, the "share of
products" product metric shown by reference number 508 may be represented using an area
graph, and the "share of promotions" product metric shown by reference number 510 may
be represented using a line graph.         In some implementations, a presentation style or
graphical representation may be specified by a user. In some implementations, product
analysis platform 215 may determine a presentation style or graphical representation to use
for a particular product metric (e.g., based on formatting of the particular product metric,
based on a presentation style or graphical representation used for a similar product metric,
based on a user interface template, etc.), which conserves computing resources that would
otherwise be used to obtain information identifying the presentation style or graphical
representation from a user.
[00110]     As shown by reference number 512, the user interface may provide information
relating to a share of point of sale (POS) product metric. In some implementations, the share
of POS product metric may identify a quantity of different chains (e.g., groups, brands, etc.)

                                                 33
of stores that offer a given product in a particular time period. As shown by reference number
512, the share of POS product metric may be represented by a line graph.
[00111]     As shown by reference number 514, the user interface may provide information
relating to a price trends product metric. In some implementations, the price trends product
metric may identify an average price per product in a particular time period, and may identify
a currency associated with the average price (e.g., U.S. Dollars). As further shown by
reference number 514, the price trends product metric may be represented by a line graph.
[00112]     As shown by reference number 516, the user interface may provide information
relating to a price distribution product metric. In some implementations, the price distribution
product metric may identify a quantity of products offered for sale in one or more trade
segments, and may identify particular price intervals associated with the quantity of products.
As further shown by reference number 516, the price distribution product metric may be
represented by a bar graph.
[00113]     As shown by reference number 518, the user interface may include a legend that
identifies types of trade segments or channels, including, for example, an e-commerce
channel, a hard discount channel, a hypermarket channel, a soft discount channel, a
supermarket channel, and/or a tax free channel. The legend may correspond to the "price
distribution" product metric identified by reference number 516.
[00114]     As shown in Fig. 5B, and by reference number 520, user device 205 may detect
an interaction with a particular input element of the user interface to cause user device 205
to provide, for display, product metrics in a tabular format.        This conserves computing
resources that would otherwise be used to manually obtain or determine values of the
product metrics. In some implementations, the particular input element may include a tab, a
button, or the like. The other product metrics are shown in Fig. 5B, and are described with
regard to reference numbers 522 through 526.
[00115]     As shown by reference number 522, product analysis platform 215 may provide
the product metrics for display in tabular format. For example, reference number 522 shows
a table that includes a price per liter product metric column, a price in Danish krones (price

                                             34
DKK) product metric column, a price per unit product metric column, a date range product
metric column, a minimum advertised price (MAP) compliance product metric column, a
manufacturer's suggested retail price (MSRP) compliance product metric column, an offer
price product metric column, a volume discount product metric column, and a price
compliance filter product metric column.
[00116]    As shown by reference number 524, user device 205 may detect an interaction
with particular product information or a particular product metric, and may provide, for
display, additional and/or different information based on the interaction.     As shown by
reference number 526, user device 205 may provide, for display, a screenshot of the website
from which the product information was obtained, when the product information was
obtained.
[00117]    As shown by reference number 528, the user interface may include an element to
cause product analysis platform 215 to export the normalized product information and/or the
one or more product metrics. Based on detecting an interaction with the element, product
analysis platform 215 and/or user device 205 may provide the normalized product
information and/or the one or more product metrics (e.g., in a textual format, in a tabular
format, etc.).
[00118]    As indicated above, Figs. 5A and 5B are provided merely as an example. Other
examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to Figs. 5A and
5B.
[00119]    By automatically normalizing product information, product analysis platform 215
may save processor/storage resources that would otherwise be used to process and store a
greater quantity of product information. By using feedback based on a user interaction to
improve normalization of the product information, product analysis platform 215 may improve
accuracy of normalized product information, thereby reducing wasted time and processor
resources relating to inaccurate normalized product information. By determining whether
product metrics are correct, and providing feedback to improve calculation of product
metrics, product analysis platform 215 may conserve processor resources that would
otherwise be used to calculate inaccurate product metrics.

                                               35
[00120]    The foregoing disclosure provides illustration and description, but is not intended
to be exhaustive or to limit the implementations to the precise form disclosed. Modifications
and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure or may be acquired from practice
of the implementations.
[00121]    As used herein, the term component is intended to be broadly construed as
hardware, firmware, and/or a combination of hardware and software.
[00122]    Some implementations are described herein in connection with thresholds. As
used herein, satisfying a threshold may refer to a value being greater than the threshold,
more than the threshold, higher than the threshold, greater than or equal to the threshold,
less than the threshold, fewer than the threshold, lower than the threshold, less than or equal
to the threshold, equal to the threshold, etc.
[00123]    It will be apparent that systems and/or methods, described herein, may be
implemented in different forms of hardware, firmware, or a combination of hardware and
software. The actual specialized control hardware or software code used to implement these
systems and/or methods is not limiting of the implementations. Thus, the operation and
behavior of the systems and/or methods were described herein without reference to specific
software code-it being understood that software and hardware can be designed to
implement the systems and/or methods based on the description herein.
[00124]    Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and/or
disclosed in the specification, these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of
possible implementations. In fact, many of these features may be combined in ways not
specifically recited in the claims and/or disclosed in the specification.       Although each
dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one claim, the disclosure of
possible implementations includes each dependent claim in combination with every other
claim in the claim set.
[00125]    While implementations described herein are described in relation to obtaining
product information from multiple, different websites, implementations described herein can

                                                36
also be applied with regard to a single website (e.g., a single webpage or multiple, different
webpages of a particular website).
[00126]     No element, act, or instruction used herein should be construed as critical or
essential unless explicitly described as such. Also, as used herein, the articles "a" and "an"
are intended to include one or more items, and may be used interchangeably with "one or
more." Furthermore, as used herein, the term "set" is intended to include one or more items
(e.g., related items, unrelated items, a combination of related items, and unrelated items,
etc.), and may be used interchangeably with "one or more." Where only one item is intended,
the term "one" or similar language is used. Also, as used herein, the terms "has," "have,"
"having," or the like are intended to be open-ended terms. Further, the phrase "based on" is
intended to mean "based, at least in part, on" unless explicitly stated otherwise.
[00127]     Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to mean the inclusion of a stated feature or step, or group
of features or steps, but not the exclusion of any other feature or step, or group of features
or steps.
[00128]     The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken
as an acknowledgement, or any suggestion that, the prior art forms part of the common
general knowledge.

                                               37
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.     A device including a product analysis platform, including:
       one or more processors that:
              obtain product information relating to one or more products,
                      the product information obtained from a plurality of websites on which
              the one or more products are offered, wherein the product information is
              formatted, labeled, and /or arranged differently in the plurality of websites and
              wherein the difference includes different naming and/or different units of
              measure of a particular product;
              normalize     the  product   information    to  determine    normalized    product
information, wherein the product information is normalized to make the product information
consistent such that items of the normalized product information are used for further
processing by the product analysis platform;
              determine one or more product metrics based on the normalized product
       information;
              generate a user interface based on the one or more product metrics and
       provide the user interface for display,
                      the user interface providing information relating to the one or more
              product metrics, including the information in one or more of a line graph or a
       pie chart, and
                      the user interface operable to permit a user to interact with the
              information relating to the one or more product metrics, including selecting a
              line on the line graph or a slice of the pie chart;
              detect the interaction with the user interface;
              determine an additional product metric and/or one or more modified product
metrics based upon the normalized product information and based upon the interaction; and
              provide, for display via the user interface, information relating to the additional
and/or one or more modified product metrics.
2.     A device according to claim 1, where the one or more processors further:

                                               38
      detect an interaction with a portion of the user interface that pertains to a particular
product of the one or more products; and
       provide, for display, information that identifies a particular website, of the plurality of
websites, from which product information relating to the particular product was obtained.
3.    A device according to either claim 1 or claim 2, where the one or more processors,
when obtaining the product information:
      obtain first product information from a first website of the plurality of websites,
              the first product information being associated with a first format; and
      obtain second product information from a second website of the plurality of websites,
              the second product information being associated with a second format that is
      different than the first format, and
              the second website being associated with a different entity than the first
      website; and
      where the one or more processors, when normalizing the product information, further:
              normalize the product information based on causing the first format to match
      the second format.
4.    A device according to any one of the preceding claims, where the one or more
processors, when determining the one or more product metrics:
      determine the one or more product metrics with regard to a particular product of the
one or more products,
              the one or more product metrics being determined based on comparing
       normalized product information from a first website, of the plurality of websites, and
       normalized product information from a second website of the plurality of websites,
                      the normalized product information from the first website and the
              normalized product information from the second website relating to the
              particular product.
5.    A device according to any one of the preceding claims, where the one or more
processors further:

                                                39
       detect a user interaction with a portion of the user interface that corresponds to a
particular product of the one or more products;
       obtain additional product information relating to the particular product; and
       provide the additional product information for display.
6.     A device according to any one of the preceding claims, where the one or more
processors, when determining the one or more product metrics, further:
           select the one or more product metrics from a plurality of product metrics,
                       the one or more product metrics being selected based on the one or
               more product metrics being associated with a user interaction that occurred
               prior to selecting the one or more product metrics.
7.     A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions, the instructions
including:
       one or more instructions that, when executed by one or more processors including a
product analysis platform, cause the one or more processors to:
              obtain product information relating to one or more products,
                       the product information being obtained from a plurality of websites on
              which the one or more products are offered or sold, wherein the product
               information is formatted, labelled, and/or arranged differently in the plurality of
              websites, wherein the difference includes different naming and/or different
               units of measure of a particular product;
               normalize    the    product  information  to   determine   normalized     product
information, wherein the product information is normalized to make the product information
consistent such that items of the normalized product information are used for further
processing by the product analysis platform;
              determine one or more product metrics based on the normalized product
       information;
              generate a user interface based on the one or more product metrics, and
provide the user interface for display,

                                               40
                      the user interface to provide information relating to the one or more
              product metrics, including the information in one or more of a line graph or a
       pie chart, and
                      the user interface to permit a user to interact with the information relating
              to the one or more product metrics, including selecting a line on the line graph
              or a slice of the pie chart;
              detect the interaction with the user interface;
              determine an additional product metric and/or one or more modified product
metrics based upon the normalized product information and based upon the interaction; and
              provide, for display via the user interface, information relating to the additional
and/or one or more modified product metrics.
8.     A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 7, where the one or
more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the one or
more processors to:
       determine that a particular product metric, of the one or more product metrics, satisfies
a threshold; and
       provide information indicating that the particular product metric satisfies the threshold.
9.     A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to either claim 7 or claim 8,
where the one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further
cause the one or more processors to:
       determine a product category associated with the one or more products; and
       where the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to
generate the user interface, further cause the one or more processors to:
              configure the user interface based on the product category,
                      the user interface to provide the information related to the one or more
              product metrics based on the one or more products being associated with the
              product category.

                                               41
10.    A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 9, where the one or
more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the one or
more processors to:
       determine that the one or more products are associated with the product category
based on the product information associated with the one or more products.
11.    A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to any one of claims 7 to1O,
where the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to provide the
user interface, further cause the one or more processors to:
        provide a graphical representation of the information relating to the one or more
product metrics; and
       where the one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors,
further cause the one or more processors to:
               detect an interaction with the graphical representation; and
               provide, for display via the user interface, one or more values associated with
       the one or more product metrics.
12.    A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to any one of claims 7 to 11,
where the one or more products include a first product and a second product; and
       where the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to
determine the one or more product metrics, further cause the one or more processors to:
               determine a particular product metric, of the one or more product metrics,
        based on comparing normalized product information corresponding to the first product
       and normalized product information corresponding to the second product.
13.    A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to any one of claims 7 to 12,
where the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to obtain the
product information, further cause the one or more processors to:
       obtain the product information from the plurality of websites based on automatically
accessing the plurality of websites to obtain the information.

                                                42
14.    A computer-implemented method, including:
       obtaining, by a product analysis platform, product information relating to one or more
products,
               the product information being obtained from a plurality of websites on which
       the one or more products are offered or sold, wherein the product information is
       formatted labeled, and/or arranged differently in the plurality of websites, wherein the
       difference includes different naming and/or different units of measure of a particular
       product;
       normalizing, by the product analysis platform, the product information to determine
normalized product information, wherein the product information is normalized to make
product information consistent such that items of the normalized product information are
used for further processing by the product analysis platform;
       determining, by the product analysis platform, one or more product metrics based on
the normalized product information;
       generating, by the product analysis platform, a user interface based on the one or
more product metrics and providing the user interface for display,
               the user interface to provide information relating to the one or more product
       metrics associated with each product, including the information in one or more of a
       line graph or a pie chart, and
               the user interface to permit a user to interact with the information relating to the
       one or more product metrics, including selecting a line on the line graph or a slice of
       the pie chart;
       detecting by the product analysis platform, the interaction with the user interface;
       determining, by the product analysis platform, an additional product metric and/or one
or more modified product metrics based upon the normalized product information and based
upon the interaction; and
       providing, by the product analysis platform, for display via the user interface,
information relating to the additional and/or one or more modified product metrics.

                                                 43
15.     A method according to claim 14, where the particular product metric is determined
based on normalized product information that is obtained from a particular website of the
plurality of websites; and
        where providing the additional information further includes:
                providing information identifying the particular website,
                        the information identifying the particular website including an image of
                the particular website,
                               the   image being      obtained when the normalized        product
                       information was obtained.
16.     A method according to either claim 14 or claim 15, further including:
        selecting the one or more product metrics to be determined,
                the one or more product metrics being selected based on information
        identifying an entity to which the user interface is to be provided.
17.     A method according to any one of claims 14 to 16, further including:
        detecting an interaction identifying particular normalized product information, of the
normalized product information, to be provided for display;
        modifying the one or more product metrics based on the particular normalized product
information to generate one or more modified product metrics; and
        providing, for display, information relating to the one or more modified product metrics.
18.     A method according to any one of claims 14 to 17, where providing the user interface
includes:
        providing a graphical representation of the information associated with the one or
more product metrics; and
        where the method further includes:
                detecting an interaction with the graphical representation; and
                providing, for display via the user interface, one or more values associated with
        the one or more product metrics.

                                               44
1a.    A device, including:
       one or more processors that:
             obtain product information relating to one or more products,
                     the product information being obtained from a plurality of websites on
             which the one or more products are offered;
              normalize   the    product   information  to  determine     normalized     product
information;
             determine one or more product metrics based on the normalized product
       information;
             generate a user interface based on the one or more product metrics,
                     the user interface providing information relating to the one or more
              product metrics, and
                     the user interface operable to permit a user to interact with the
              information relating to the one or more product metrics; and
              provide the user interface for display.
2a.    A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions, the instructions
including:
       one or more instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the
one or more processors to:
             obtain product information relating to one or more products,
                     the product information being obtained from a plurality of websites on
             which the one or more products are offered or sold,
                     the plurality of websites being associated with different entities;
              normalize   the    product   information  to  determine     normalized     product
information;
             determine one or more product metrics based on the normalized product
       information;
             generate a user interface based on the one or more product metrics,
                     the user interface to provide information relating to the one or more
              product metrics, and

                                               45
                     the user interface to permit a user to interact with the information relating
             to the one or more product metrics; and
              provide the user interface for display.
3a.   A method, including:
      obtaining, by one or more devices, product information relating to one or more
products,
             the product information being obtained from a plurality of websites on which
      the one or more products are offered or sold;
      normalizing, by the one or more devices, the product information to determine
normalized product information;
      determining, by the one or more devices, one or more product metrics based on the
normalized product information;
      generating, by the one or more devices, a user interface based on the one or more
product metrics,
             the user interface to provide information relating to the one or more product
      metrics, and
             the user interface to permit a user to interact with the information relating to the
      one or more product metrics; and
      providing, by the one or more devices, the user interface for display.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       3/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      5/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           7/7

