                                  ABSTRACT
         A humidity control device for use in maintaining the desired
  humidity for wood musical instrument, art objects and museum
  artifacts, the device including a water vapor permeable pouch and a
5 saturated aqueous solution having a suitable humidity control point
  for use with these objects.

                                       - 1
                   HUMIDITY CONTROL SYSTEM FOR WOOD PRODUCTS
                   CROSS-REFERENCED TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
          This application is a divisional of Australian application
   2014242327  filed on 10  February 2014 and claiming priority from US
 5 13/803,319. Australian application 2014242327 is the national phase
   entry of PCT application PCT/US2014/015547 which was published as
   W02014/158383.  The entire contents   of each of these publications is
   hereby incorporated by reference.
       STATEMENT REGARDING FEDERALLY SPONSORED RESEARCH OR DEVELOPMENT
 0        Not applicable
                           BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
                            I. Field of the Invention
          The present  invention relates generally to the preservation of
   wood containing objects and, in particular, to wood containing objects
 5 such as museum artifacts, and musical    instruments by controlling the
   humidity of the storage environment for such items.
                                 II. Related Art
          Wood products stored in enclosures will absorb and release
   moisture as dictated by the temperature and storage environment
 0 humidity. Unfortunately, as moisture content changes, wood will shrink
   and expand in a manner that will often change the physical properties
   and appearance permanently and may damage a stored wood product. It is
   well known, for example,   that in cold weather, particularly in polar
   latitudes, the indoor moisture content is often very low and low
?5 humidity levels cause wood products to    shrink in a manner that may
   cause damage. Conversely, in high humidity environments    such as
   tropical regions, the high humidity may well damage wood products due
   to moisture absorption and swelling. Because of concerns with
   environmental humidity, highly valued wood products such as art
30 objects, musical  instruments, and even expensive   sports equipment are
   frequently sealed in a controlled humidity environment. The
   recommended relative humidity    (RH) for the storage of wood products
   has been  found to be between

                                   -2
    40% and 60%.
          As disclosed in U.S. Patent 5,936,178, the relative
    humidity of closed environments can be stabilized by the
    use of humidity control systems comprised of moisture
 .5 permeable pouches containing specific salt       solutions.
    Also, certain non-ionic solution containing low molecular
    weight molecules such as ethylene glycol, propylene
    glycol, glycerin, urea, guanidine, ethanol amine, simple
    sugars,  or sugar alcohols may be employed.       The choice of
10  the solute and the solute concentration in an aqueous
    solution determines   the solution water activity      (aw) .  The
    water activity of a solution will equilibrate with the
    surrounding atmosphere until the relative humidity         (RH)
    is equivalent to the water activity.      Thus, the RH
                                      2
15  percentage will equal the a'xl0 ,     For example, an aqueous
    solution of saturated sodium chloride with excess
    crystals,  aw 0.75 will equilibrate   with the moist air      or
    dry air in a closed system until a relative humidity of
    75 percent is achieved.
20       However, it has also been discovered that many of
    the solutions that are most effective in establishing and
    maintaining the optimal relative humidity range        (40% to
    60%) have undesirable properties such as chemical
    reactivity with packaging material, corrosiveness,
25  undesirable gas formation,    or limited moisture transfer
    capacity  (MTC)  (defined below),   For example,    a saturated
    solution of potassium carbonate with excess crystals will
    maintain a stable humidity in the desired 40% to 60%
    range, but the high pH of the material will degrade many
30  packaging films.    Another problem is the corrosive gas
    that is formed when nitrite salts are used to control the
    humidity.
         The moisture transfer capacity     (MTC) is   defined as
    the amount of moisture transferred,     into or out of a

                                       - 3
   given control system, i.e.   device, pouch, etc.,    over a defined
   relative humidity range, For example, an aqueous      solution of calcium
   chloride, magnesium chloride, or glycerin may be used to control
   humidity between 40%   and 60%, but the MTC is only about 15 to 20%    of
 5 the package weight. Also, moisture control systems employing solid
   substrates  such as  silica gel  or water absorbing organic polymers,
   e.g. acrylamide, can be formulated to a specific relative humidity;
   however, these systems are characterized by low moisture transfer
   capacity and are less useful    for maintaining a controlled humidity
 0 environment. Clearly the moisture transfer capacity of a humidity
   control system is very important for maintaining the desired humidity
   over a range of environmental conditions. As     the moisture transfer
   capacity of the device increases, there is an increased ability of the
   device to provide the necessary moisture to maintain the humidity
 5 required to protect   a wood product   of interest.
   Reference to any prior art in the specification is not an
   acknowledgment or suggestion that this prior art forms part of the
   common general knowledge in any jurisdiction or that this prior art
   could reasonably be   expected to be understood, regarded as relevant,
 o and/or combined with other pieces of prior art by a skilled person in
   the art.
   As used herein, except where the context requires      otherwise, the term
   "comprise" and variations of the term,     such as  "comprising",
   "comprises"  and "comprised", are not intended to exclude other
?5 additives, components,   integers or steps.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
          In one aspect of the invention there is provided a humidity
   control device for use in a closed environment for maintaining a
   relative humidity in the closed environment in the general range of
30 40% to  60%, the device comprising:
          (a)    a pouch formed of a thin-walled polymeric material
   permeable to water vapor but not to liquid solutions;
          (b)    a humidity control solution    comprising saturated aqueous
   salt solution containing an amount of sodium formate sealed in said
35 pouch wherein said salt solution     contains from about 30%  to 90% salt;

                                   -  3a
  and
         (c)   wherein the water vapor permeability of the pouch is such
  that the moisture transfer capacity of the pouch transmits at least
  from about 1% to about 50% by weight of the initial pouch contents in
5 a 24-hour period when exposed to an atmosphere of less than 10%
  relative humidity and absorbs at least from about 1% to about 50% by
  weight of the initial pouch content when exposed to an atmosphere
  having greater than 85% relative humidity.
         The present invention provides devices or containers in the form
0 of packets or pouches containing material systems in the form of
  humidity control solutions for controlling the relative humidity at an
  optimal level for wood product and museum artifact preservation when
  such items are kept in a generally closed environment. This invention
  discloses preferred systems providing superior moisture transfer
5 capacity for stabilizing the relative humidity generally within the
  critical range of 40% to 60%  required for wood products. The disclosed
  formulas provide superior moisture transfer capacity in this range
  without undo corrosion, or package degradation. In a preferred form,
  the present invention employs a saturated aqueous solution of sodium
0 formate mixed with acetate, lactate or citrate salts. These solutions
  may be

                                    -4
    contained in a variety    of polymeric films that will allow
    the transfer of moisture vapor but not liquid solution
    and enable control the relative humidity between 40%
    and 60% in a sealed container such as a musical
  5 instrument case or a display cabinet.
          Certain thickening agents may be added to these
    humidity control solutions in order to increase and
    control the viscosity.      A high viscosity product will
    minimize undesirable solution leakage in the event of a
 10 package defect.    Many potential thickening agents were
    disclosed in the above-cited U.S. Patent 5,936,178.       In
    the material of the present invention, the preferred
    thickening agents include hydroxyethylcellulose
     (Natrosol®), xanthan gum, alumina     (Aeroxide@), and fumed
15  silica   (Aerosil@).   These thickening agents have a high
    molecular weight and are added in low concentrations so
    that they exert only a minimal effect on the relative
    humidity control of the device yet greatly increase the
    viscosity of the solution.
20        In  some embodiments,   the humidity control solutions
    or systems in   accordance with the invention are
    introduced into pouches formed from polymeric films that
    breathe in   a manner such that they will transport
    moisture vapor but will contain the solution without
25  leaking liquid.    The water vapor transport, known as
    water vapor transmission rate      (WVTR) is measured in terms
    of grams of water passed per 100 square inches of
    material per 24 hours under standard test conditions,        It
    is a function of the type of film used and the thickness
30  of the film.    The total moisture transferred, of course,
    is also determined by the area of film exposed to a
    humidity control solution in a given application.       It has
    been shown that a WVTR of about 10 grams water per 100
    square inches over 24 hours provides good results for a

   device in  accordance with the invention.       Packaging   film
   materials that may be employed include polyvinylchloride,
   fibrous polyethylene   (TYVEK®), cellophane, polycarbonate,
   thin polyolefin, oriented polystyrene,       polyfluorocarbon,
 5 or polyester such as the elastomer Hytrel® laminated onto
   a suitable substrate such as paper.       The pouch may
   comprise polyamide nylon film, such as Capran®,        styrene
   butadiene copolymer such as K-Resin,       cellulose acetate,
   polyethylene terephthalate    (Mylar®), ethylene vinyl
10 acetate,  or ethylene vinyl alcohol.
         However, the relative humidity control device is not
   limited to a polymeric film pouch.       Any container or
   material that will transport water vapor while retaining
   the liquid can provide a suitable container for the
iS humidity control solutions of the invention.
        An aspect of the invention is      that  the humidity
   control devices both add and remove water vapor in        a
   storage container atmosphere to equilibrate the water
   activity of the humidity control solution of the control
20 device with the surrounding atmosphere of the storage
   container.   The particular choice of solute determines
   the aw or RH "set point" of a particular       device or pouch.
   A plurality of pouches can be used in a given storage
   container.   The devices may be of the same or different
25 sizes or capacities and set points.       While a WVTR of 10
   gm water vapor per 100 in 2 /24 hours provides good results,
   a general range from 1 to 25 gm water vapor in 24 hours
   may be used.   Both the RH set point and the WVTR of a
   given device depend on the combination of the composition
30 of the humidity control solution and the composition and
   thickness of the packaging film.

                                     -6
                     BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
            In the Drawings:
            Figure 1 depicts a typical pouch for humidity
   control in      accordance with the invention;      and
            Figure 2 depicts a plurality of the pouches of
   Figure 1 placed in       a guitar case with a guitar.
                           DETAILED DESCRIPTION
            The following detailed description that describes
   one or more embodiments       of the present   invention    in
10 detail     is  offered by way of example and is       not meant to
   limit     the scope of the invention as other combinations
   and variations may occur to those skilled in the art that
   are well within the scope of the inventive concept.
            The present invention comprises a humidity control
15 device including a polymeric film pouch having walls
   sufficiently permeable to permit migration of water
   through the film in the form of water vapor and yet thick
   and impervious enough to prevent the escape of liquids.
   Certain preferred embodiments employ an aqueous humidity
20 control solution including sodium formate, combined with
   potassium acetate or sodium lactate, and a thickening
   agent such as silica, hydroxyethylcellulose, alumina or
   xanthan gumir.     The solutions may contain excess solute,
   i.e. sodium formate, potassium acetate, or sodium lactate
25 to increase the capacity of the device to remove water
   vapor from the surroundings.
            The polymeric film pouch may be constructed of any
   size or shape necessary to hold the amount of solution
   necessary to stabilize       the humidity of the environment of
30 interest      to be controlled.   A typical device to maintain
   the humidity in a guitar case, for example, is a pillow
   like, water vapor permeable, polymeric pouch containing
   about 70 grams of control solution.          Such a pouch is
   illustrated at 30 in Figure 1.        Larger pouches or

                                          -7
   multiple pouches may be employed to control the humidity
   of larger volumes such as glass or metal cases used
   to display or store art objects or museum artifacts.
           The pouch of the present invention may be
 5 constructed of any polymeric material that contains the
   solution,      but has a sufficient       moisture vapor
   transmission rate.           Materials such a polyethylene,
   polyvinylchloride, polystyrene, polyamides such as nylon,
   cellophane, ethylene vinyl acetate, and polyesters such
10 as polyethylene terephthalate or Hytrel@ have been
   employed successfully.             A preferred packaging material
   contains a thermoplastic polyester elastomer sold under
   the trademark Hytrel*.
           The preferred range of water vapor transmission rate
15 for the pouch material           is  one that transmits moisture
   from about 1 percent to about 40 percent by weight of the
   initial    total    package contents over a 24-hour period in
   an atmosphere of less than 10% relative humidity and
   wherein the pouch absorbs moisture from about 1 percent
20 to about 40 percent by weight of total initial package
   contents over a 24-hour period in an atmosphere greater
   than 85 percent relative humidity.              Most preferably,  the
   pouch material is         one that transmits and absorbs water
   vapor in     an amount from about 1% to about 50% by weight
25 of the total      initial     package contents     over a 24-hour
   period in the respective atmosphere of 10% relative
   humidity and 85% relative            humidity.
           The preferred water vapor permeable pouch materials
   include pouches comprising polymeric materials such as
30 polyester, Hytrel*,         polyvinylchloride,     polymeric
   fluorocarbon,       nylon,    poly lactate,    polyethylene vinyl
   alcohol,    polyethylene vinyl acetate, polystyrene,
   polyethylene,       Surlyn*,    polypropylene,    polyethylene
   terephthalate,        combination polymers      or similar materials

                                    -8
     that transmit water vapor, but not liquid water.       Any
    material that meets the basic criteria might be used.
    Any receptacle that transmits water vapor as desired and
     provides a barrier to liquids can be used.       In addition,
  5  the moisture control system, sealed pouch may be
     contained in a second    (outer) water vapor permeable
    pouch, bag or other container in order to provide back-up
    protection if the primary pouch should leak.
           The solutions disclosed in this invention may
 10 contain from 15% to 55% water depending on the humidity
    of the environment to be controlled.       The sodium formate,
    sodium lactate and potassium acetate are used to obtain
    the optimal humidity control, and certain formulations
    may contain an excess of these components, generally as
i   crystals.    Although thickening agents are not required or
    instrumental in controlling humidity, the humidity
    control solutions may be thickened to improve processing
    and minimize potential leaks.      Although different
    thickeners can potentially be employed,      hydrophelia fumed
20  silica   in the form of Aerosil@ 200    (Eronik) and brine
    tolerant xanthan gum    (Danisco@ SM)   are preferred,   The
    xanthan is used at levels ranging from 0.2% to 0.7% and
    the Aerosil is used at about 2.5% to achieve the desired
    viscosity which is in the range of about 500 to about
25  7000 centipaise.
           With respect to humidity control compositions, an
    additional drawback to many involves off-gassing, or the
    evolution of trace gases such as hydrogen sulfide, sulfur
    oxides, volatile acids or nitrogen oxides which will,
30  over time, corrode components such as metal or fabric in
    an object to be protected by a humidity control device.
    A standard test in the industry is referred to as the
    Oddy test which exposes lead, copper and silver to the
    humidity control system at 60*C for 28 days.       Any

                                     -9
    deleterious off-gassing will corrode one or more of these
    metals and render the corresponding humidity control
    device unacceptable for many applications.       The humidity
    control devices of the present invention do not have this
  5 drawback as they are able to pass the Oddy test and are
    quite benign to the typical environment of use.
           Thus, preferred materials for the moisture control
    system include an aqueous solution containing salts
    selected from sodium formate and potassium formate
10  combined with one or more additional components selected
    from sodium lactate, potassium lactate, sodium citrate,
    potassium citrate, sodium acetate and potassium acetate.
           The pH of the solution may be adjusted using common
    acids or bases such as, but not limited to, citric acid,
 $  lactic acid, formic acid, phosphoric acid, phosphate
    salts,   sodium hydroxide,    or potassium hydroxide.  A
    preferred pH range is from about 6.5 to about 9.5.
           Preferably, but not necessarily, the humidity
    control solution is     thickened with a viscosity control
20  agent selected from,     but not limited to,  such substances
    as silica,    alumina,  chemically modified cellulose and
    xanthan gum.     Activated   carbon may also be added to the
    humidity control solution.
                                 OPERATION
25         in use, the humidity control devices of the present
    invention are placed in sealed cases or other similar
    place containing an object to be protected by controlled
    humidity.     For example, as depicted in Figure 2, one or
    more pouches 30 may be placed in a guitar or violin case
30  40 with an instrument 50,       Likewise,  one or more pouches
    may be placed in a sealed cabinet containing art work or
    museum artifacts.      Theoretically, if the pouch were sized
    correctly and the cabinet or case had a perfect seal, the
    controlled humidity would be maintained indefinitely.

                                     -10
    However, actual environments are less than ideal and
    cases and cabinets tend to leak and may be opened from
    time to time.      Accordingly, a given pouch will gain water
    or lose water in such a fashion as to project the
  5 valuable object until the pouch has gained or lost water
    exceeding its moisture transfer capacity.           This limit can
    be determined easily by measuring either the relative
    humidity in     the case cabinet,    or the weight   change in   the
    pouch.
 10       A preferred method to contain the humidity control
    pouch in  an environment to be controlled is         to place it
    inside a bag constructed of Gortex® or similar material
    that will contain any potential solution leak, but will
    readily enable transfer of water vapor.
15                                EXAMPLES
                                  Example I
          In one preferred embodiment of the present
    invention, a saturated aqueous solution of sodium formate
    containing potassium acetate was prepared by adding 470
20  grams of sodium formate to 355 grams of water and 170
    grams of a potassium acetate solution containing 50%
    potassium acetate and 50% water (weight).           Xanthan gum
    Danisco SM    (3 grams) was dispersed into the mixture.
    This mixture was heated to 160*F        (71.1"C)  and then cooled
25  to 120*F  (48. 9"C) .   This solution was filled into a pouch
    comprised of Hytrel@ film (DuPont) (1.5 x 10~          inches
    thick) on a paper substrate.         The pH was found to be 8.9
    and the relative      humidity 53% (water activity     0.53).
    When placed in a dry atmosphere (10% RH) in a guitar
30  case, this device emitted 32% of the solution weight as
    moisture before it reached the 40% RH limit.           When placed
    in a humid atmosphere      (85% RH),   this solution absorbed
    15% of the pouch content weight before reaching the
    higher 60% RH     (0.60 water activity) limit.       These are

                                  -11
    highly satisfactory results and a pouch containing 70
    grams of this solution was able to maintain the desired
    humidity for several months in a guitar case, containing
    a guitar, when tested over a variety of high and low
  5 humidity conditions.    This humidity control system also
    passed the Oddy off-gassing performance test.
                              Example 1A
          A saturated aqueous solution of sodium formate
    containing potassium acetate was prepared by adding 470
 10 grams of sodium formate to 355 grams of water and 170
    grams of potassium acetate solution     (50% water) as in
    Example 1.   The mixture was heated to 100*F (37.84C)     and
    35 grams of Aerosil@ 200 hydrophilic fumed silica
     (Eronik) was added and thoroughly mixed. The pH was found
15  to be 7.2 and the humidity 52%    (water activity 0.52).
    The water emitting and absorbing characteristics of this
    formula were similar to that of Example 1 when exposed to
    equivalent environmental conditions.      This humidity
    control system also passed the Oddy off-gassing
20  performance test.
                              Example 1B
          A saturated aqueous solution of sodium formate
    containing potassium acetate was prepared exactly as
    described in Example IA except 60 grams of alumina
25  (Aeroxideo Alu 130) fumed aluminum oxide      (Eronik) was
    added in place of the Aerosil®.     The pH was found to be
    8.7 and the water activity 0.52.     This solution performed
    essentially equivalent to that of Example 1A.       This
    humidity control system passed the Oddy off-gassing
30  performance test.
                              Example 2
          A saturated aqueous solution of sodium formate
    containing sodium lactate was prepared by adding 470
    grams of sodium formate, 125 grams of 60% sodium lactate

                                      -12
    solution     (40% water)   (weight), and 5 grams of xanthan gum
    to 400 grams of water.        The mixture was heated to 160*F
     (71.1*C)   during continuous mixing.       This solution pH was
    8.2 and the water activity 0.54.          This solution had a
  5 moisture transfer capacity of 36% of the initial solution
    weight before it reached the a lower limit of 0.43 water
    activity and 12%     solution weight was gained in a high
    humidity environment until the upper limit of 60% RH
     (0.60 water activity) was reached.         When placed in a
 10 guitar case, three 70-gram pouches maintain the relative
    humidity within the case       for over three months.     This
    humidity control system also passed the Oddy off-gassing
    performance test.
                                  Example 3
 15        A saturated aqueous solution of sodium formate
    containing potassium citrate was prepared by adding 430
    grams of sodium formate and 142 grams of tripotassium
    citrate mono hydrate to 430 grams water.          The initial
    water activity was 0.53 and the pH 8.3.          In a low
20  humidity environment      (10% RH),   this solution was shown to
    lose 35% water by weight of the initial solution before
    reaching a water activity of 0.40.
                                  Example 4
             Formula to Control High Humidity Environment
25         A saturated aqueous solution of sodium formate
    containing sodium lactate was prepared by adding 400
    grams of sodium formate to 300 grams of 60% sodium
    lactate    (40% water)   (weight).    The mixture contained a
    substantial excess of sodium formate crystals.          The water
30  activity of the solution was 0.44,         the pH was 7.8.     When
    this solution was exposed to an atmosphere greater than
    85% RH, this solution gained 58%        water by weight of the
    solution before reaching the high limit relative humidity
    of 60%   (0.60 water activity).       This humidity control

                                -13
    system also passed the Oddy off-gassing performance test.
                             Example 5
           Formula to Control High Humidity Environment
         A saturated aqueous solution of sodium format
  5 containing potassium acetate was prepared by adding 150
    grams of sodium formate to 290 grams of a 50% aqueous
    solution of potassium acetate.   The water activity was
    shown to be 0.38 and the pH 9.07.    This solution
    containing excess crystals gained 45% of the initial
 10 mixture weight as water before reaching a water activity
    of 0.60.  This humidity control system also passed the
    Oddy off-gassing performance test.
         This invention has been described herein in
    considerable detail in order to comply with the patent
15  statutes and to provide those skilled in the art with the
    information needed to apply the novel principles and to
    construct and use embodiments of the example as required,
    However, it is to be understood that the invention can be
    carried out by specifically different devices and that
20  various modifications can be accomplished without
    departing from the scope of the invention itself.

                                 -14
                           CLAIMS
         1.    A humidity control device for use in a closed
    environment for maintaining a relative humidity in the
 5  closed environment in the general range of 40% to 60%,
    the device comprising:
          (a)  a pouch formed of a thin-walled polymeric
              material permeable to water vapor but not to
               liquid solutions;
10        (b)  a humidity control solution comprising
               saturated aqueous salt solution containing an
               amount of sodium formate sealed in said pouch
              wherein said salt solution contains from about
               30% to 90% salt; and
15        (c) wherein the water vapor permeability of the
              pouch is such that the moisture transfer
              capacity of the pouch transmits at least from
              about 1% to about 50% by weight of the initial
              pouch contents in a 24-hour period when exposed
20            to an atmosphere of less than 10% relative
              humidity and absorbs at least from about 1% to
              about 50% by weight of the initial pouch
              content when exposed to an atmosphere having
              greater than 85% relative humidity.
25       2.   A humidity control device as in claim 1 wherein
   the humidity control solution further comprises an amount
   of one or more salts selected from the group consisting
   of sodium lactate, potassium lactate, sodium citrate,
   potassium citrate, sodium acetate and potassium acetate.
30       3.   A humidity control device as in claim 1 wherein
   said humidity control solution is thickened by an amount
   of one or more compatible viscosity control agents.
         4.   A humidity control device as in claim 2 wherein
   said humidity control solution is thickened by an amount
35 of one or more compatible viscosity control agents.

                                -15
          5.  A humidity control device as in claim 3 wherein
    said one or more viscosity control agents are selected
    from the group consisting of silica, alumina, chemically
    modified cellulose and xanthan gum.
  5       6.  A humidity control device as in claim 4 wherein
    said one or more viscosity control agents are selected
    from the group consisting of silica, alumina, chemically
    modified cellulose and xanthan gum.
          7.  A humidity control device as in claim 1 wherein
 10 the device passes the Oddy off-gassing test.
          8.  A humidity control device as in claim 4 wherein
    the device passes the Oddy off-gassing test.
         9.   A humidity control device as in claim 1 wherein
    said humidity control solution contains an amount of
15  activated carbon.
         10.  A humidity control device as in claim 1 wherein
    said humidity control solution comprises an aqueous
    solution of sodium formate containing an amount of
    potassium acetate.
20       11.  A humidity control device as in claim 10
    wherein said solution of sodium formate is saturated.
         12.  A humidity control device as in claim 11
    further comprises an amount of xanthan gum.
         13.  A humidity control device as in claim 11
25  further comprises an amount of alumina.
         14.  A humidity control device as in claim 1 wherein
    said humidity control solution comprises a saturated
    aqueous solution of sodium formate containing an amount
    of sodium lactate.
30       15.  A humidity control device as in claim 15
    wherein said humidity control solution contains an excess
    amount of sodium formate crystals.
         16.  A humidity control device as in claim 1 wherein
    said humidity control solution comprises a saturated
35  aqueous solution of sodium formate containing an amount

     of potassium acetate.
           17.  A humidity control device as in claim 1 wherein
     the pH of the humidity control solution is in the range
     of from about 6.5 to about 9.5.
  5        18.  A humidity control device as in claim 17
    wherein the pH of the humidity control solution is
    adjusted by adding an amount of an acid or base selected
     from the group consisting of citric acid, lactic acid,
    formic acid, phosphoric acid, phosphate salts, sodium
 10 hydroxide, or potassium hydroxide.
          19.  A humidity control device as in claim 1 wherein
    said polymeric material of said pouch is selected from
    the group consisting of polyesters, polyamides,
    polyvinylchloride polymeric fluorocarbons, poly lactate,
 15 polyethylene vinyl chloride, polyolefin's, polystyrene,
    polyethylene terephthalate, styrene-butadiene copolymer,
    and combinations thereof.
          20.  A humidity control device as in claim 1 further
    comprising vapor-permeable outer pouch for containing
20  said pouch as a further protection against leaks.
          21.  A humidity control device as in claim 1 further
    comprising a bag for containing said pouch.
          22.  A humidity control device as in claim 19
    wherein said polymeric material of said pouch comprises a
25  polyester.
          23.  A method of controlling relative humidity in a
    closed environment comprising introducing one or more
    humidity control devices of claim 1 into the closed
    environment and monitoring the relative humidity in that
30  environment at timed intervals.
          24.  A method as in claim 23 including monitoring
    the weight of said one or more humidity control devices.
          25.  A humidity control device for use in a closed
    environment for maintaining a relative humidity in the
35  closed environment in the general range of 40% to 60%,

                               -17
   the device comprising:
        (a)  a pouch formed of a thin-walled polymeric
             material permeable to water vapor but not to
             liquid solutions;
 5      (b)  a humidity control solution comprising
             saturated aqueous salt solution containing an
             amount of potassium formate in combination of
             one or more salts selected from the group
             consisting of sodium lactate, potassium
10           lactate, sodium citrate, potassium citrate,
             sodium acetate and potassium acetate sealed in
             said pouch wherein said salt solution contains
             from about 30% to 90% salt; and
        (c)  wherein the water vapor permeability of the
15           pouch is such that the moisture transfer
             capacity of the pouch transmits at least from
             about 1% to about 50% by weight of the initial
             pouch contents in a 24-hour period when exposed
             to an atmosphere of less than 10% relative
20           humidity and absorbs at least from about 1% to
             about 50% by weight of the initial pouch
             content when exposed to an atmosphere having
             greater than 85% relative humidity.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
