                                     ABSTRACT
The disclosure provides improved compositions and methods for passive
immunization. In embodiments, a composition comprising a synergistic combination
of specific polyclonal antibodies in a carrier matrix is provided. The disclosure
provides effective, economical compositions and methods for the treatment of
diarrhea and enteric infections in broad-spectrum, undifferentiated, or mixed clinical
applications.
10261793_1(GHMatters)P93305.AU.2

                                              I
       COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS FOR TREATMENT IN BROAD
 SPECTRUM, UNDIFFERENTIATED OR MIXED CLINICAL APPLICATIONS
              CROSS-REFERENCES TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]    This application is being filed on 21 November 2011, as a PCT International
Patent application in the name of PanTheryx, Inc., a U.S. national corporation, applicant
for the designation of all countries except the US, and Timothy W. Starzl, a citizen of
the U.S., and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/416,667, filed
November 23, 2010, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
                             FIELD OF THE DISCLOSURE
[0002] The disclosure provides compositions and methods for passive immunization.
In embodiments, compositions comprising a synergistic combination of specific
polyclonal antibodies with a carrier matrix are provided. The disclosure provides
effective and economical compositions and methods for the treatment of pathogenic
infections in broad-spectrum, undifferentiated, or mixed clinical applications. In one
embodiment, compositions and methods for the treatment of diarrhea and enteric
infections is provided.
                       BACKGROUND OF THE DISCLOSURE
[0003]     Antibodies, immunoglobulins, and other biological immune factors (referred
to here collectively as antibodies), both natural and their synthetic analogues, are known
therapeutic agents in humans and animals. Antibodies operate by binding (via non
covalent forces) between the antigen combining site on the antibody and a portion of
the antigen called the antigenic determinant or epitope. Antibodies are capable of high
degrees of specificity. For example, the field of monoclonal antibodies has developed
largely under the impetus of producing ever more specific and precise binding
characteristics. However, this high specificity can lead to excessively limited binding
attributes, where agents or antigens that are functionally identical do not react
identically with the immunoreagent or immunotherapeutic. Cross-reactivity on the other
hand, usually considered an error or failure to achieve binding specificity., is the
reaction between an antigen and an antibody that was generated against a similar but

different antigen. Controlled cross-reactivity may constructively be used to broaden the
binding range of the antibody.
[0004]    Colostrum has evolved naturally in mammals specifically to deliver its
components to neonates to and through the gastrointestinal tract in a very concentrated
low-volume form. Colostrum is known to contain antibodies such as IgA, IgG, and
IgM. Other components of colostrum include lactoferrin, lysozyme, lactoperoxidase,
complement, and proline-rich polypeptides (PRP). A number of cytokines (small
messenger peptides that control the functioning of the immune system) are found in
colostrum as well, including interleukins, tumor necrosis factor, chemokines, and
others. Colostrum also contains a number of growth factors, such as insulin-like growth
factors I, and II, transforming growth factors alpha, beta 1 and beta 2, fibroblast growth
factors, epidermal growth factor, granulocyte-macrophage stimulating growth factor,
platelet-derived growth factor, vascular endothelial growth factor, and colony
stimulating factor-I.
[0005]    The antibodies and cofactors in colostrum can, through breast feeding provide
a passive immunity to the recipient. Normally antibodies and cofactors are passed to the
neonate from the mother and provide the first protection against pathogens. Growth
factors also stimulate the development and repair of the gut.
[0006]    One condition that could be addressed by using passive immunity is diarrhea.
Diarrhea is caused mainly by the ingestion of pathogens. According to the World
Health Organization (WHO), eighty-eight percent of cases diarrhea worldwide are
attributable to unsafe water, inadequate sanitation or insufficient hygiene. These cases
result in about 1.5 million deaths each year, most being the deaths of children. (Pruss
Urstun et al., Safer water, better health: costs, benefits and sustainability of
interventions to protect and promote world health. World Health Organization, Geneva,
2008. ISBN 978 92 4 1596435).
[00071    Of particular global concern are the instances of infectious diarrhea in the
developing world, which are a cause of tremendous ongoing morbidity and mortality,
particularly in the pediatric population. For example, India has one of the highest infant
mortality rates in the world according to a 2009 United Nations Human Development
report. For example, Save the Children, a global non-profit, reports that one child dies
every 15 seconds in India, and 90% of these deaths are due to preventable diseases,

such as diarrhea. Rotavirus and measles vaccines, handwashing with soap, improved
drinking water supply and community-wide sanitation are recommended by WHO for
the prevention of diarrhea; however, these measures are not effective to treat the
disease.
[00081     Standard treatment protocol in much of the world for pediatric diarrhea
includes a concomitant administration of antibiotics and oral rehydrative therapy. For
many reasons, antibiotics are a prescription drug. Antibiotics are not effective in the
treatment of viral infection. For example, rotavirus is estimated to cause about 40
percent of all hospital admissions due to diarrhea among children under five years of
age worldwide. (Weekly Epidemiological Record, vol. 83, no. 47, 21 November 2008).
The inappropriate use of antibiotics can promote resistant strains of bacteria.
Conversely, the infection may be caused by a resistant strain of bacteria. Even under
the best of circumstances, use of an appropriate antibiotic may take several days to
reduce the severity of the symptoms of diarrhea.
[00091    Another disadvantage of antibiotics is that administration can induce the
destruction of both pathogenic and benign bacteria found in the GI tract which can
further result in release of endotoxic lipopolysaccharides. (Holzheimer, The significance
of endotoxin release in experimental and clinical sepsis in surgical patients--evidence
for antibiotic-induced endotoxin release? Infection. 1998 Mar-Apr;26(2):77-84). These
endotoxins have a host of adverse systemic effects including fever, changes in white
blood cell counts, disseminated intravascular coagulation, hypotension, shock and
death, malabsorption; in fact, the direct injection of fairly small doses of endotoxin
results in death in most mammals. Todar K. BacterialEndotoxin. Textbook of
Bacteriology. 2008. textbookofbacteriology.net.
100101    According to WHO, oral rehydration therapy and zinc with continued feeding,
including breastfeeding, is recommended for treatment of childhood diarrhea. Zinc
syrup or zinc-fortified oral rehydration solution (ORS, 40 mg/L) is typically employed
at a dose of about 15 to 30 mg per day. Zinc is inexpensive, but has modest efficacy.
Zinc syrup results in only about a 25 percent reduction in duration of acute diarrhea,
and a 40 percent reduction in treatment failure or death. (Bhutta et al. Therapeutic
effects of oral zinc in acute and persistent diarrhea in children in developing countries:
pooled analysis of randomized controlled trials. The American Journalof Clinical

Nutrition. 2000; 72(6):1516-22). One study evaluated the efficacy and safety of a zinc
fortified (40 mg/L) ORS among 1,219 children with acute diarrhea. Clinical outcomes
among the zinc-fortified ORS group were modestly improved, compared with those for
the control group, who received standard ORS only. In that study, the total number of
stools was lower among the zinc-ORS group compared with the total number for the
control group. No substantial effect on duration of diarrhea or risk for prolonged
diarrhea was noted. (Bahl R, Bhandari N, Saksena M, et al. Efficacy of zinc-fortified
oral rehydration solution in 6- to 35-month-old children with acute diarrhea. J Pediatr
2002; 141:677-82).
[00111     It is known that antibiotics are ineffective to treat a viral infection, such as a
rotavirus infection. Other interventions have limited effectiveness. Additionally,
appropriate diagnostic tools to distinguish the cause of diarrhea are not always readily
available or affordable.
[00121     Clearly a rapid, effective and economical alternative for the treatment of
undifferentiated diarrhea is desirable. There remains a need for effective, economical
compositions and methods for treatment of diarrhea and enteric infections in broad
spectrum, undifferentiated, or mixed clinical applications.
                          SUMMARY OF THE DISCLOSURE
100131     The disclosure provides compositions and methods of passive immunization
wherein a specific binding molecule, such as a specific immunoglobulin, is combined
with a carrier matrix to provide a composition for oral or mucosal administration for
management of microorganisms; including treatment or prophylaxis of a pathogenic
infection or undesirable strain. In embodiments, the compositions are administered to a
non-neonatal subject.
[00141     In one embodiment, the disclosure provides a composition for administration
to a non-neonate human for the management of microorganisms, the composition
comprising at least one specific binding molecule, or fragment thereof, derived from the
adaptive immune system of an animal, wherein the specific binding molecule is
selected from an immunoglobulin, antibody, peptide, variable lymphocyte receptor,
transfer factor, or a mixture thereof; and a carrier matrix comprising two or more
components of the innate immune system of a non-human mammal, wherein the matrix
can be selected from, or derived from the components of, colostrum, milk, serum,

plasma, saliva, lymph fluid, mucous, or lachrymal fluid; wherein the matrix and the
specific binding molecule are derived from different species.
[0015]     In a preferred embodiment, the carrier matrix comprises bovine colostrum. In
another embodiment, the matrix comprises the components of the innate immune
system that are selected from lysozyme, phospholipase, defensins, opsonins,
components of the complement system, beta-lysin, protein-rich peptides (PRP), (PRPs),
lactoferrin, transferrin, cytokines, interleukins, chemokines, interferons, TNF-alpha,
fibronectin, leukocytes, white blood cells, phagocytes, macrophages, monocytes,
neutrophils, polymorphonuclear cells, dendritic cells, mast cells, eosinophils, basophils,
natural killer (NK) cells, lymphokine activated killer (LAK) cells, defensins, elastase,
cathepsin G, myeloperoxidase, and NADPH oxidase.
[0016]     In various embodiments, the composition includes a pharmaceutically
acceptable carrier. In other embodiments, the composition includes a food grade carrier.
In embodiments, the compositions can be administered via oral delivery, nasal delivery,
ocular delivery or combinations thereof.
[0017]     In other embodiments, the composition does not include an exogenously
added polymer, copolymer, liposome, hydrogel or fibrin. In other embodiments, the
composition does not include microspheres or microcapsules. In yet a further
embodiment, the composition does not include an exogenously added antigen.
[0018]     In a further embodiment, the specific binding molecules specifically bind to a
pathogen, a pathogen related toxin, a pathogen related adhesion element, undesirable
strain, or a combination thereof. In one aspect, the pathogen comprises a human or
veterinary, enteric or gastrointestinal, pathogen causing gastroenteritis.
In various aspects, the pathogen or undesirable strain is selected from the group
consisting of: Campylobacterjejuni,Salmonella, Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi,
Shigella dystenteriae, Plesiomonasshigelloides, Escherichiacoli [including (EPEC)
enteropathogenic E. coli, (ETEC) enterotoxigenic E. coli, (EaggEC) enteroaggregative
E. coli, (EIEC) enteroinvasive E. coli, and (EHEC) haemorrhagic E. coli], Clostridium
dificile, Yersinia enterocolitica,Vibrio cholerae 01, Vibrio 0139, Non-O 1 Vibrios,
Vibrio parahaemolyticus,Aeromonas hydrophila, Clostridiumperfringens, Clostridium
difficile, enterohepatic Helicobacter (including Helicobacterpylori),Staphylococcus
aureus, Klebsiella, rotavirus, coronavirus, norovirus, calicivirus, enteric adenovirus,

cytomegalovirus, astrovirus, S. pneumoniae, H. influenzae, Neisseriagonorrhoeae,
herpes zoster virus, Fusariumspp., and Acanthamoeba spp.
[0019]    In a specific aspect, the pathogen related toxin comprises an endotoxin or
exotoxin.
[0020]    In another specific aspect, the pathogen related adhesion element comprises
adhesins, cadherins, cilia, fimbrillae, a viral adhesion structure, or a combination
thereof.
[0021]    In various embodiments, the composition is administered orally in an amount
effective for the treatment or prevention of undifferentiated diarrhea, traveler's diarrhea,
rotavirus diarrhea, toxin-mediated diarrhea, cholera, C. difficile infection, dysentery,
typhoid fever, peptic ulcers, or for gastrointestinal flora management. In another
aspect, an effective amount of the composition confers passive immunity to a subject.
[0022]    In another embodiment, the disclosure provides a method for preparing the
composition of the disclosure by the steps of (a) obtaining from an animal at least one
specific binding molecule or fragment thereof that binds to a specific antigen, wherein
the specific binding molecule is selected from an immunoglobulin, antibody, peptide,
variable lymphocyte receptor, transfer factor, and a mixture thereof; (b) obtaining at
least one carrier matrix, comprising at least two components obtained from a
nonhuman animal selected from the group consisting of enzymes, lactoferrin,
transferrin, nonspecific immunoglobulins, cytokines, white blood cells, complement
components, interferons, and fibronectin;(c) preparing a solid form of the carrier
matrix and of the specific binding molecule or fragment thereof ; and(d) mixing the
solid form of the carrier matrix with the solid form of the specific binding molecule or
fragment thereof.
[0023]    In another embodiment, the present invention provides a method for preparing
an immunity conferring composition. The method includes (a) obtaining at least one
exogenously sourced specifically targeted immune factor; (b) preparing a powderized
form of the at least one exogenously sourced specifically targeted immune factor; (c)
obtaining at least one exogenously sourced carrier matrix, optionally mixed the
exogenously sourced carrier matrix with a mixture of agents to support and interact
with the exogenously sourced specifically targeted immune factor; (d) preparing a
powderized form of the at least one exogenously sourced carrier matrix; and (e) mixing

the powderized form of step (b) with the powderized form of step (d), thereby obtaining
the passive immunity conferring composition. In one aspect, the passive immunity
conferring composition includes a dose controlled formulation. In various aspects, the
passive immunity conferring composition includes a pharmaceutically acceptable
carrier. In various aspects, the passive immunity conferring composition does not
include a polymer, copolymer, liposome, hydrogel, or fibrin. In various aspects, the
passive immunity conferring composition does not include microspheres or
microcapsules. In various aspects, the passive immunity conferring composition does
not include an immunogen or antigen.
[0024]     The present invention includes at least one of the following distinguishing
attributes: (a) it enables customized design of the matrix, specific factors, and the
activating events for specified or targeted diseases; (b) it enables dose controlled
formulation of a variety of mixtures of components, which may be tuned or adjusted for
effect; (c) it enables dose controlled formulation that provides specified components in
excess of normal physiological levels that can be achieved in natural systems; (d) it uses
complex multi-component multi-pathway interactions to create a systems effect that
emulates a native immune system response; (e) it enables creation of a preconditioned
or potentiated passive immune response that can be administered in its potentiated state,
and subsequently activated by the presence of the target pathogens, toxins, disease state,
or syndrome; (f) it enables the creation of formulations that have a defined specificity or
broad-spectrum effect, to match the needs of the specific target disease state or
syndrome, or of the practice environment within which the product is to be used; and
(g) it enables the creation of formulations that can be targeted for prophylaxis as well as
for therapeutic intervention.
[0025]     In another aspect, by adjusting the amounts of the specific binding molecules,
such as polyclonal antibodies, in the composition a dose controlled formulation can be
prepared.
[0026]     In a preferred embodiment, the at least one specific binding molecule
comprises IgY derived from immunized chickensIn other specific aspects, the IgY
comprises a pool of IgY specific for at least enterotoxigenic     . coli spp., . coli K99
pili adherence factor, Clostridiumperfringenstoxoid, Salmonella typhimurium,
rotavirus, and coronavirus.

                                               0
[0027]     In another embodiment, the composition is topically administered to a
mucosal membrane.
[0028]     In another embodiment, the pathogen comprises a pathogen causing vaginitis.
In various aspects, the pathogen is selected from the group consisting of: Gardnerella
spp., Neisseriagonorrhoeae,Chlamydiaceae trachomatis,Mycoplasma spp.,
Campylobacterjejuni,Trichomonas vaginalis, herpes virus type 1, herpes virus type 2,
Candida albicans, Candidaglabrata,Candida tropicalis, Candidaparapsilosis and
Candida krusei.
[0029]     In another embodiment, the pathogen is Group A Streptococcus bacteria.
[0030]     In another embodiment, the pathogen comprises a pathogen causing
conjunctivitis selected from the group consisting of S. aureus, S. pneumoniae,H.
influenzae, Neisseriagonorrhoeae,Chlamydia trachomatis, adenovirus, herpes
simplex, herpes zoster virus, enteroviruses, Fusarium spp, Candida spp. and
Acanthamoeba spp.
[0031]     In another embodiment, the compositions of the disclosure are useful as
nutritional compositions for administering to a subject in need thereof who is afflicted
with a disease that creates special dietary needs such as pediatric diarrhea, Crohn's
disease, and ulcerative colitis.
                      BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0032]     Figure 1 shows average daily stool frequency over a five day period for two
field trial test groups compared to negative control for the composition of Example 1A.
In Trial 1(n=29) and Trial 2 (n = 31), the composition Example 1A is administered once
daily for three days with antibiotic and oral rehydration salts (ORS). In the Negative
Control (n = 28), only antibiotic and ORS are administered without a composition of
the disclosure.
[0033]     Figure 2 shows average daily stool consistency on a 1-5 scale (l=normal and
5=liquid) over the same five day period for the same three groups from Figure 1.
[0034]     Figure 3 shows average physician assessed wellbeing on a 1-5 scale
(l=normal and 5=severely ill) over the same five day period for the same three groups
from Figure 1.
[0035]     Figure 4 shows average daily stool frequency over a five day period for three
field study (trial) test groups. Trials 1 and 2, and the negative control, are as described

for Figure 1. In Trial 3 (n =140), patients were administered the composition of
Example 1B with antibiotic and ORS.
[0036]    Figure 5 shows average daily stool consistency on a 1-5 scale (l=normal and
5=liquid) over the same five day period for the same four groups from Figure 4.
[0037]    Figure 6 shows average physician assessed wellbeing on a 1-5 scale
(1=normal and 5=severely ill) over the same five day period for the same four groups
from Figure 1.
[0038]    Figure 7 shows average daily stool frequency over a five day period for Trials
1 and 2, negative control, Trial 3 is broken into 6 subgroups (ES204A): 2 g spray dried
egg with 4 g colostrum administered for 3 days; (ES204B): 2 g spray dried egg with 4 g
colostrum administered for 2 days; (MT204A) 2 g thermal dried egg with 4 g colostrum
for 3 days; (MT304A) 3 g thermal dried egg with 4 g colostrum for 3 days; (MS204A)
2 g spray dried egg with 4 g colostrum for 3 days; (MS304A) 3 g spray dried egg with 4
g colostrum for 3 days.
[0039]    Figure 8 shows average daily stool consistency on a 1-5 scale (l=normal and
5=liquid) over the same five day period for the same groups from Figure 7.
[0040]    Figure 9 shows average physician assessed well-being on a 1-5 scale
(1=normal and 5=severely ill) over the same five day period for the same groups from
Figure 7.
                              DETAILED DESCRIPTION
DEFINITIONS
[0041] It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to herein, such
reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the
common general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
[0042] In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention,
except where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is
used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to
preclude the presence or addition of further features in various embodiments of the
invention.
[0043]    The terms "prevention", "prevent", "preventing", "prophylaxis" and as used
herein refer to a course of action (such as administering a compound or pharmaceutical

composition of the present disclosure) initiated prior to the onset of a clinical
manifestation of a disease state or condition so as to prevent or reduce such clinical
manifestation of the disease state or condition. Such preventing and suppressing need
not be absolute to be useful.
[0044]     The terms "treatment", "treat" and "treating" as used herein refers a course of
action (such as administering a compound or pharmaceutical composition) initiated
after the onset of a clinical manifestation of a disease state or condition so as to
eliminate or reduce such clinical manifestation of the disease state or condition. Such
treating need not be absolute to be useful.
[0045]     The term "in need of treatment" as used herein refers to a judgment made by a
caregiver that a patient requires or will benefit from treatment. This judgment is made
based on a variety of factors that are in the realm of a caregiver's expertise, but that
includes the knowledge that the patient is ill, or will be ill, as the result of a condition
that is treatable by a method, compound or pharmaceutical composition of the
disclosure.
[0046]     The term "in need of prevention" as used herein refers to a judgment made by
a caregiver that a patient requires or will benefit from prevention. This judgment is
made based on a variety of factors that are in the realm of a caregiver's expertise, but
that includes the knowledge that the patient will be ill or may become ill, as the result of
a condition that is preventable by a method, compound or pharmaceutical composition
of the disclosure.
[0047]     The term "individual", "subject" or "patient" as used herein refers to any
animal, including birds or mammals, such as mice, Norway rats, cotton rats, gerbils,
cavies, hamsters, other rodents, rabbits, dogs, cats, swine, cattle, sheep, goat, horses, or
primates, and humans. The term may specify male or female or both, or exclude male or
female. In one aspect, the patient is an adult human. In another aspect, the patient is a
non-neonate human infant. In another aspect, the patient is a human toddler, child, or
adolescent.
[0048] The term "neonate", or newborn, refers to an infant in the first 28 days after
birth. The term "non-neonate" refers to an animal older than 28 days.
[0049]     The term " effective amount" as used herein refers to an amount of an agent,
either alone or as a part of a pharmaceutical composition, that is capable of having any

                                              II
detectable, positive effect on any symptom, aspect, or characteristics of a disease state
or condition. Such effect need not be absolute to be beneficial.
[0050]    The term "including" as used herein is non-limiting in scope, such that
additional elements are contemplated as being possible in addition to those listed; this
term may be read in any instance as "including, but not limited to." .
[0051]    The term "immunize", "actively immunize", "actively immunizing", and
"active immunization" means to purposefully immunize a subject by exposing a subject
to an antigen, for example, an antigen derived from a microorganism, such as but not
limited to, a virus or a bacteria; such exposure may be carried out by exposing the
subject to an intact organism, an attenuated organism, a portion of the organism, one or
more antigens present on the organism or a combination of the foregoing.
[0052]    The term "passively immunize", "passively immunizing", and "passive
immunization" means to provide antibodies against an antigen, for example, an antigen
derived from a microorganism, such as but not limited to, a virus or a bacteria, to a
subject without necessarily eliciting an immune response to the organism in the subject.
Passive immunization provides immediate protection but the subject does not develop
memory cells as a result.
[0053]    The term "passive immunity" as used herein refers to artificially acquired
immunity achieved by the transfer of antibodies to the subject. The terms "egg" or "egg
product" each mean an avian sourced whole shell egg (conventional, immunized or
otherwise) or any product or fraction derived therefrom.
[0054]    The terms "immune egg" or "immune egg product" each mean whole egg or
any product or fraction derived therefrom, obtained from an egg producing animal
maintained in a immunized state.
[0055]    The term "antigen" refers to an entity or fragment thereof which can induce an
immune response in an organism, particularly an animal. The term includes
immunogens and regions thereof responsible for antigenicity or antigenic determinants.
[0056]    The term "polyclonal antibody" refers to antibodies that are heterogeneous
populations of antibody molecules derived from the sera of animals immunized with an
antigen or an antigenic functional derivative thereof. For the production of polyclonal
antibodies, various host animals may be immunized by injection with the antigen.

Various adjuvants may be used to increase the immunological response, depending on
the host species.
[0057]     The term "monoclonal antibody" is well recognized in the art and refers to an
antibody that is mass produced in the laboratory from a single clone and that recognizes
only one antigen. Monoclonal antibodies are typically made by fusing a normally short
lived, antibody-producing B cell to a fast-growing cell, such as a cancer cell (sometimes
referred to as an "immortal" cell). The resulting hybrid cell, or hybridoma, multiplies
rapidly, creating a clone that produces large quantities of the antibody. "Monoclonal
antibodies" are substantially homogenous populations of antibodies directed to a
particular antigen or epitope. They may be obtained by any technique which provides
for the production of antibody molecules by continuous cell lines in culture.
Monoclonal antibodies may be obtained by methods known to those skilled in the art.
See, for example, Kohler, et al., Nature 256:495-497, 1975, and U.S. Pat. No.
4,376,110.
[0058] The term "crystalline" refers to an antibody, such as a monoclonal antibody that
has been purified by crystallization, such as by batch crystallization. Crystalline
antibodies can be used in order to generate a small volume, highly concentrated forms.
(Yang et al., 2003,Crystallline antibodies for subcutaneous delivery. PNAS
100(12):6934-6939).
[0059] The term "undifferentiated diarrhea" means that the causative agent of the
diarrhea is undiagnosed.
[0060] The term "antibody fragment" encompasses any synthetic or genetically
engineered protein that acts like an antibody by binding to a specific antigen to form a
complex. For example, antibody fragments include isolated fragments, "Fv" fragments,
consisting of the variable regions of the heavy and light chains, recombinant single
chain polypeptide molecules in which light and heavy chain variable regions are
connected by a peptide linker ("scFv proteins"), and minimal recognition units
consisting of the amino acid residues that mimic the hypervariable region. Antibody
fragments include a portion of an antibody such as F(ab')2, F(ab)2, Fab', Fab, Fv, sFv
and the like. Regardless of structure, an antibody fragment binds with the same antigen
that is recognized by the intact antibody.

                                               I.)
[0061] The term "transfer factor" refers to an immune molecule of approximately 5000
Daltons, made up of amino acids, that cause antigen-specific cell-mediated immunity,
primarily delayed hypersensitivity and the production of lymphokines, as well as
binding to the antigens themselves. (Kirkpatrick 1993, Structural nature and functions
of transfer factors. Ann. N.Y. Acad. Sci. 685:362-368.)
[0062] The term "variable lymphocyte receptors" refers to lymphocyte-derived
molecules discovered injawless vertebrates such as the lamprey and hagfish. These
animals possess a large array of variable lymphocyte receptors that are produced from
only a small number of genes and that bind to pathogenic antigens in a similar way to
antibodies, and with the same degree of specificity. (Alder et al., 2005, Diversity and
function of adaptive immune receptors in a jawless vertebrate. Science,
310(5756):1970-1973).
[0063] The term "cell receptor" refers to the ligand binding moiety of the B-cell
receptor; a membrane bound immunoglobulin molecule of one isotype (e.g., IgD, IgM,
IgE). With the exception of the presence of an integral membrane domain, these are
identical to their secreted forms.
[0064] The term "specific binding " in the context of the characteristics of specific
binding molecules, also known as specific targeted immune factors, such as an
antibody, antibody fragment, variable lymphocyte receptor, or transfer factor, refers to
the ability to preferentially bind to a particular antigen that is present in a homogeneous
mixture of different antigens. In certain embodiments, a specific binding interaction
will discriminate between desirable and undesirable antigens (e.g., "target" and "non
target" antigens) in a sample, in some embodiments more than about 10 to 100-fold or
more (e.g., more than about 1000- or 10,000-fold). In some embodiments, the specific
binding molecule may specifically bind to an epitope shared among different species or
strains of a microorganism as compared to non-shared epitopes. In certain
embodiments, the affinity between an antibody and antigen when they are specifically
bound in an antibody-antigen complex is characterized by a KD (dissociation constant)
of less than 10-6 M, less than 10-7 M, less than 10-8 M, less than 10- M, less than 10-"
M, less than 10-" M, or less than about 10-12 M or less.

[0065]     The term "innate immune system", or non-specific immune system, refers to
the cells, molecular components and mechanisms that defend the host from infection by
other organisms in a non-specific manner. The cells and molecular components of the
innate immune system recognize and respond to pathogens in a generic way, but unlike
the adaptive immune system, it does not confer long-lasting or protective immunity to
the subject. Innate immune systems provide immediate defense against infection.
Vertebrates possess a second layer of protection,, the adaptive immune system, which is
activated by the innate response.
[0066]     The term "adaptive immune system" refers to highly specialized, systemic
cells and processes that recognize and respond to an antigen, for example, to eliminate,
neutralize or prevent pathogenic growth. The system is highly adaptable due to somatic
hypermutation (a process of accelerated somatic mutation) and V(D)J recombination
(an irreversible genetic recombination of antigen receptor gene segments). Adaptive
immunity is also referred to as acquired immunity and creates an immunological
memory. An adaptive immune response is pathogen and antigen specific and there is a
lag time between exposure and maximal response. An adaptive immune response is
based on the principle of clonal recognition, such that upon first exposure to an antigen,
primed lymphocytes either differentiate into immune effector cells or form an expanded
pool of memory cells that respond to secondary exposure to the same antigen by
mounting an amplified and more rapid response.
[0067]     The term "animal" refers to the animal kingdom definition.
[0068]     All pronouns are intended to be given their broadest meaning. Unless stated
otherwise, female pronouns encompass the male, male pronouns encompass the female,
singular pronouns encompass the plural, and plural pronouns encompass the singular.
[0069]     Numerical ranges as used herein are intended to include every number and
subset of numbers contained within that range, whether specifically disclosed or not.
Further, these numerical ranges should be construed as providing support for a claim
directed to any number or subset of numbers in that range. For example, a disclosure of
from 1 to 10 should be construed as supporting a range of from 2 to 8, from 3 to 7, from
5 to 6, from I to 9, from 3.6 to 4.6, from 3.5 to 9.9, and so forth.
[0070]     All patents, patent publications, and peer-reviewed publications (i.e.,
"references") cited herein are expressly incorporated by reference to the same extent as

if each individual reference were specifically and individually indicated as being
incorporated by reference. In case of conflict between the present disclosure and the
incorporated references, the present disclosure controls.
                            MODES OF THE DISCLOSURE
[0071]    The disclosure provides compositions and methods useful in the management
of undesirable strains or pathogenic microorganisms.
[0072]    One embodiment of the present invention is based on a method to create a
targeted antibody-based formulation embedded or subsumed within a carrier matrix,
where the antibodies use a controlled form of cross-reactivity to multiple clusters of
related target antigens, and where the carrier matrix contains support and cofactors that
enhance the effect of the antibodies. The utility of such antibody/matrix formulations
may include providing broad-spectrum therapeutic interventions under conditions
where the class of causative agent, but not the precise or specific causative agent, is
known or suspected or under circumstances where multiple (mixed) causative agents
are active.
[0073]    A novel approach to the use of antibodies in this manner has been developed,
that takes advantage of both the specificity and cross-reactive attributes of antibodies,
and then further utilizes the components within the carrier matrix to generate a multi
component in situ immune response. In this embodiment, antibodies are designed to
bind to all of several closely related epitopes that represent a structurally related cluster
of antigens. These antigens may differ markedly in other respects, and may originate
from diverse sources, organisms, or species.
[0074]    One embodiment of the invention involves the method of specific binding
molecules (immune factors, for example antibodies), within the carrier matrix, where
the specific binding molecules have specificity to a class of related antigens, and are
specifically cross-reactive to different instances of members of that class. There exists a
degree of structural similarity in related clusters of target antigens, without regard to the
organism or pathogen that is the source of the antigen. Similarity in structure can result
in a phenomenon known as "cross-reactivity" (the steric binding of a reactive molecule
to an antigen other than the antigen intended). Cross-reactivity is often unintentional,
and in most cases is considered a source of error and non-specificity. However, in this

                                              1U
embodiment the extent and degree of cross-reactivity is controlled by various means to
limit and channel its expression so as to provide desired characteristics.
[0075]    This treatment confers passive immunity to patients. The nature of the
treatment makes the associated risk factors comparable to that of eating food from the
source where the antibodies were harvested (e.g., risk factors would be similar to that of
eating an egg and a glass of milk). This is an effective treatment with less toxicity than
the currently available alternative interventions.
[0076]    The present invention is based on the seminal discovery that the use of an
exogenously sourced (containing components obtained from an animal different from
the animal to be treated) carrier matrix in conjunction with exogenously sourced (
obtained or corresponding to immune factors obtained from an animal different form
the animal to be treated)specifically targeted immune factors can be used to transport
and introduce an effective multi-parameter immunity to a subject in need thereof.
[0077]    In one aspect, the disclosure provides a composition comprising: a)a non
neonate human effective amount of at least one specific binding molecule, or fragment
thereof obtained from an animal and that specifically binds to an antigen , wherein the
specific binding molecule is selected from an immunoglobulin, antibody, peptide,
variable lymphocyte receptor, transfer factor, and a mixture thereof; and, b)a carrier
matrix comprising at least two components obtained from a nonhuman animal selected
from the group consisting of enzymes, lactoferrin, trnasferrin, nonspecific
immunoglobulins, cytokines, white blood cells, complement components, interferons,
and fibronectin, wherein the at least one specific binding molecule and the at least two
components of the carrier matrix are obtained from different animals.
[0078]    In another aspect, the disclosure provides a method for preparing the
composition comprising (a) obtaining at least one specific binding molecule or
fragment thereof from an animal that binds to a specific antigen, wherein the specific
binding molecule is selected from an immunoglobulin, antibody, peptide, variable
lymphocyte receptor, transfer factor, and a mixture thereof; (b) obtaining at least one
carrier matrix, comprising at least two components obtained from a nonhuman animal
selected from the group consisting of enzymes, lactoferrin, trnasferrin, nonspecific
immunoglobulins, cytokines, white blood cells, complement components, interferons,
and fibronectin;        (c) preparing a solid form of the carrier matrix and of the

                                                I /
 specific binding molecule or fragment thereof ; and (d) mixing the solid form of the
 carrier matrix with the solid form of the specific binding molecule or fragment thereof.
 [0079]    In yet another aspect, the compositions of the disclosure are useful in the
 treatment or prevention of microbial infections. In embodiments, microbial infections
 include those caused by Campylobacterjejuni,Salmonella, Salmonella enterica serovar
 Typhi, Shigella dystenteriae, Plesiomonasshigelloides, Escherichiacoli,
 enteropathogenic E. coli, enterotoxigenic E. coli, enteroaggregative E. coli,
 enteroinvasive E. coli, haemorrhagic E. coli, Clostridium dificile, Yersinia
 enterocolitica, Vibrio cholerae 01, Vibrio 0139, Non-O1 Vibrios, Vibrio
parahaemolyticus,Aeromonas hydrophila, Clostridiumperfringens, enterohepatic
 Helicobacter,Helicobacterpylori, Staphylococcus aureus, Klebsiella, rotavirus,
 coronavirus, norovirus, calicivirus, enteric adenovirus, cytomegalovirus, and astrovirus.
 In embodiments, the compositions are useful to treat or prevent conditions such as
 undifferentiated diarrhea, traveler's diarrhea, rotavirus diarrhea, toxin-mediated
 diarrhea, cholera, C. difficile infection, dysentery, typhoid fever, peptic ulcers, vaginitis,
 or for gastrointestinal flora management.
 [0080]    In a specific embodiment, the compositions and methods of the disclosure are
 employed in the treatment or prevention of diarrhea. There are multiple diarrhea
 causing organisms including viruses, bacteria, parasites and protozoa. The primary
 causes of bacterial infection, for example in India, include Escherichiacoli spp.,
 Enterotoxigenic E. coli, Entero-adherent E. coli.. Auromonas spp., Camphylobacter
jejuni, Shigella spp., Vibrio spp., Vibrio cholera 01, Vibrioparahaemolyticus,
 Salmonella spp., Staphylococcus aureus, Clostridium difficile, Clostridiumperfringens,
 and Yersinia enterocolitica. Secondary causes include Clostridium difficile (toxin A or
 B), The primary cause of viral diarrhea is infection by Rotavirus; although Calcivirus,
 Astrovirus, Norwalk virus, and Adenovirus are also known to cause diarrhea.
 Secondary causes of viral diarrhea include enteric adenovirus, herpes simplex virus and
 viral hepatitis. (John B. Sullivan and Gary R. Krieger, Clinical Environmental Health
 and Toxic Exposures,    2 nd Ed., Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2001,page 1040).
 [0081]    There are also known to be regional and seasonal differences in prevalence.
 For example, in Pranam, India, one study reported rotavirus accounted for an average
 15-25% of childhood cases of diarrhea. Enterotoxigenic E. coli was responsible for 10

                                              1'
to 20% of total diarrhea cases, with Enteropathogenic E. coli causing about I to 5 % of
cases. Camphylobacterjejuniinfection caused about 10 to 15%, and Shigella caused an
estimated 5 to 15% of cases of childhood diarrhea. Vibrio cholera caused about 5 to
10% of cases. Salmonella (non-typhoid) caused about to 5% of cases. Protozoan
infection was caused by primarily by Cryptosporidium (5-15%). No pathogenic cause
was identified in about 20 to 30% of cases. (Fricker, Children in the Tropics, Putting an
end to diarrheal diseases, 1993-No. 204: 1-66)
[0082]    Different regions within India ascribe bacterial cases of childhood diarrhea to
different pathogens with different degree of prevalence. For example a study in Orissa,
India found, among 866 culture-positive samples that . coli sp. (75.5%), pathogenic .
coli (13.2%), Aeromonas spp. (2%), Shigella spp. (4.5%), Vibrio cholera 01 (17.3%),
V. cholera 0139 (1%) and Salmonella spp. (0.7%). find-health
articles.com/recpub_18806340-incidence.
[0083]    Due to the wide variety of etiology, an effective, broad spectrum, economical
and safe method of treating undifferentiated diarrhea is desired. A majority of
childhood diarrhea cases seem to be caused by bacterial and viral infection, but an
alternative to antibiotics and antiviral agents is desirable.
A.       Compositions
[0084]    One aspect of the disclosure involves composition useful in the treatment,
prevention or management of microbial flora. In embodiments, the compositions are
useful for treating pathogenic infections, in particular of the gastrointestinal tract.
[0085]    In embodiments,the disclosure provides a composition comprising:
          a) a non-neonate effective amount of at least one specific binding molecule,
or fragment thereof obtained from an animal and that specifically binds to an antigen,
wherein the specific binding molecule is selected from an immunoglobulin, antibody,
peptide, variable lymphocyte receptor, transfer factor, and a mixture thereof; and,
          b) a carrier matrix comprising at least two components obtained from a
nonhuman animal selected from the group consisting of enzymes, lactoferrin,
trnasferrin, nonspecific immunoglobulins, cytokines, white blood cells, complement
components, interferons, and fibronectin, wherein the at least one specific binding
molecule and the at least two components of the carrier matrix are obtained from
different animals.

Specific Binding molecules
[0086]     The compositions and methods of the disclosure provide specific binding
molecules or fragments thereof obtained from an animal and that specifically bind to an
antigen. A specific binding molecule includes an antibody, an antibody fragment, a
peptide, a variable lymphocyte receptor, a transfer factor, and a mixture thereof.
Antibodies
[0087]     Antibodies, immunoglobulins, and other biological immune factors (referred
to collectively as antibodies), both natural and their synthetic analogues, are known
therapeutic agents in humans and animals.
[0088]     Antibodies operate by binding (via non-covalent forces) between the antigen
combining site on the antibody and a portion of the antigen called the antigenic
determinant or epitope. Antibodies are capable of high degrees of specificity. For
example, the field of monoclonal antibodies has developed largely under the impetus of
producing ever more specific and precise binding characteristics. However, this high
specificity can lead to excessively limited binding attributes, where agents or antigens
that are functionally identical do not react identically with the immunoreagent or
immunotherapeutic. Cross-reactivity on the other hand, usually considered an error or
failure, is the reaction between an antigen and an antibody that was generated against a
similar but different antigen. Controlled cross-reactivity may constructively be used to
broaden the binding range of the antibody.
[0089]     One embodiment of the present disclosure is based on a method to create a
targeted antibody-based formulation embedded or subsumed within a carrier matrix,
where the antibodies use a controlled form of cross-reactivity to multiple clusters of
related target antigens, and where the carrier matrix contains support and cofactors that
enhance the effect of the antibodies. The utility of such antibody/matrix formulations
may include providing broad-spectrum therapeutic interventions under conditions
where the class of causative agent, but not the precise or specific causative agent is
known or suspected or under circumstances where multiple (mixed) causative agents
are active. A novel approach to the use of antibodies in this manner has been developed,
that takes advantage of both the specificity and cross-reactive attributes of antibodies,
and then further utilizes the components within the carrier matrix to generate a multi
component in situ immune response. In this embodiment, antibodies are designed to

bind to all of several closely related epitopes that represent a structurally related cluster
of antigens. These antigens may differ markedly in other respects, and may originate
from diverse sources, organisms, or species.
[0090]     For the purposes of this disclosure, antibodies may be either monoclonal,
polyclonal derived from any animal, fragments, chimeric, humanized or any other form,
and antibodies may be of any isotype: for example IgA, IgD, IgE, IgG and IgM
(placental mammals), IgY (chicken), or others, may be a bispecific or bifunctional, or
multispecific or multifunctional antibody or fragment thereof. In embodiments, the
specific binding molecule can be selected from one of three main categories:
mammalian monoclonal antibodies, mammalian polyclonal antibodies, and avian
polyclonal antibodies; or any fragments derived therefrom that retain the ability to bind
to the pathogenic component.
[0091]     One embodiment of this invention is its use in the production of a broad
spectrum therapeutic. One method for producing this type of reactive formulation
involves the production of polyclonal antibodies harvested from an appropriately
immunized animal, and where such antibodies are then embedded in a carrier matrix.
Polyclonal antibodies (or antisera) are antibodies that are derived from from different B
cell lines. They are typically harvested en-mass from the serum, milk, colostrum, eggs,
or biological fluids of an immunized animal. They are a mixture of immunoglobulin
molecules secreted against a specific antigen, or group of antigens, recognizing a range
of different epitopes. It is possible to have multiple antibodies for a single antigen
(binding to different epitopes) or for a single antibody to bind to multiple antigens due
to cross-reactivity. The polyclonal antibodies can be obtained from animals, such as
cattle, sheep, horses, goats, swine, rabbits, chickens, ducks, geese, or turkeys that have
been vaccinated or inoculated with antigens derived from target components. The
antibodies can be harvested from, for example, tissue, serum, milk or eggs produced by,
or derived, from the inoculated animal. This is in contrast to monoclonal antibodies,
which are identical and monospecific; being produced by one type of immune cell that
are all clones of a single parent cell.
[0092]     The antibodies used in this invention may be collected from serum, plasma,
colostrum, milk, eggs, or other suitable biologically derived fluid, or from cell culture
media, supernatant, etc. The antibodies used in this invention may be treated in any

suitable manner to prepare for formulation and use, including but not limited to
separations, plasmapheresis, drying processes, lyophilization, pasteurization, and
preservation methods. The antibodies used in this invention may be treated,
concentrated, separated, or purified in various ways depending upon their final intended
use.
[0093]    By altering the mix of antibodies to those appropriate to various embodiments,
the disclosure provides compositions and methods appropriate for treating or preventing
other gastrointestinal infections such as cholera, C. difficile, dysentery, Salmonella typhi
(typhoid fever), and H. pylori (peptic ulcers).
[0094]    In one embodiment, antibodies are preferably raised in animals by, e.g.,
multiple subcutaneous (sc) or intraperitoneal (ip) injections of the relevant antigen and
optionally an adjuvant. In one aspect, it may be useful to conjugate the relevant antigen
(especially when synthetic peptides are used) to a protein that is immunogenic in the
species to be immunized. For example, the antigen can be conjugated to keyhole limpet
hemocyanin (KLH), serum albumin, bovine thyroglobulin, or soybean trypsin inhibitor,
using a bifunctional or derivatizing agent, e.g., maleimidobenzoyl sulfosuccinimide
ester (conjugation through cysteine residues), N-hydroxysuccinimide (through lysine
residues), glutaraldehyde, succinic anhydride, SOCl 2 , or R N=C=NR, where R and R
are different alkyl groups. Animals are immunized against the antigen, immunogenic
conjugates, or derivatives as described herein. In other embodiments, the antibodies
may be synthetic or semisynthetic, for example, as are obtained in a phage display
library, or prepared as humanized or chimeric antibodies.
[0095]    Birds (such as laying-hens) are highly cost-effective as producers of
antibodies compared with mammals traditionally used for such production. Avian
antibodies have biochemical advantages over mammalian antibodies. Immunologic
differences between mammals and birds result in increased sensitivity and decreased
background in immunological assays; as well as high specificity and lack of
complementary immune effects when administered to mammalian subjects. In contrast
to mammalian antibodies, avian antibodies do not activate the human complement
system through the primary or classical pathway nor will they react with rheumatoid
factors, human anti-mouse IgG antibodies, staphylococcal proteins A or G, or bacterial
and human Fc receptors. Avian antibodies can however activate the non-inflammatory

alternative pathway. Thus avian antibodies offer many advantages over mammalian
antibodies.
[0096]     In a preferred embodiment, the specific molecules are polyclonal antibodies
prepared in eggs of hens inoculated with one of or a mixture of pathogenic
components. Various preparations of specific antigens can also be employed for
inoculation. After inoculation, the hen produces eggs containing substantial quantities
of specific IgY immunoglobulin in the yolk, as well as small amounts of IgM and IgA
immunoglobulins in the albumin. Therefore eggs are an excellent source for large
quantities of economically produced, highly specific and stable antibodies. In one
embodiment, chickens are used to produce avian antibody; however, turkeys, ducks,
geese, ostriches, etc. may alternatively be used. In one aspect, hens are inoculated by
any method known in the art, as described herein. For example, the antigen may be
injected intramuscularly or subcutaneously. The preferred muscle for injection in an
avian is the breast muscle. Other methods of administration that can be used include
subcutaneous injection, intravenous injection, intraperitoneal injection, intradermal,
rectal suppository, aerosol or oral administration.
[0097]     The specific immune state is preferably induced and maintained in the target
animal by immunization and repeated booster administrations of an appropriate dosage
at fixed time intervals. The time intervals are preferably 1-8 week intervals over a
period of 1-12 months. Dosage is selected between about 0.0 1-5 milligrams of the
antigen. In one aspect, the dosage is 0.01 mg to 1.0 mg of antigen per inoculation,
preferably 100 mg, 200 mg, 250 mg, 300 mg, 400 mg, 500 mg or 750 mg antigen per
inoculation of a hen chicken. The total number of vaccinations can be selected from 1,
2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 in a 12 month period. Typically, a first inoculation is performed on day
1, with booster vaccinations on day 10, and day 20. The hen chicken can be re
vaccinated as needed by monitoring the specific antibody concentration, or titer, in the
eggs by, e.g., ELISA. A typical subcutaneous dosage volume for a hen chicken is
selected from between about 0.2 to 1.0 mL, 0.3 to 0.7 mL, or 0.5 mL. However, it is
essential that the booster administrations do not lead to immune tolerance. Such
processes are well known in the art.
[0098]     It is possible to use other inoculation maintenance procedures or combination
of procedures, such as, for example, intramuscular injection for primary immunization

and intravenous injection for booster injections. Further procedures include
simultaneously administering microencapsulated and liquid immunogen, or
intramuscular injection for primary immunization, and booster dosages by oral
administration or parenteral administration by microencapsulation means. Several
combinations of primary and booster immunization are known to those skilled in the
art.
[0099]    Adjuvants, also known as pharmaceutical carriers, or functional equivalents
hereof may be included in the immunization solution/vaccine composition to enhance
the specific immune response of the animal. A large number of adjuvants have been
described and used for the generation of antibodies in laboratory animals, such as
mouse, rats, rabbits and chickens. In such setting the tolerance of side effects is rather
high as the main aim is to obtain a strong antibody response.
[00100] Adjuvants pertaining to the present disclosure may be grouped according to
their origin, be it mineral, bacterial, plant, synthetic, or host product. The first group
under this classification is the mineral adjuvants, such as aluminum compounds.
Antigens precipitated with aluminum salts or antigens mixed with or adsorbed to
performed aluminum compounds have been used extensively to augment immune
responses in animals and humans. In one embodiment, the adjuvant in the immunization
composition is from a bacterial origin. Adjuvants with bacterial origins can be purified
and synthesized (e.g. muramyl dipeptides, lipid A) and host mediators have been cloned
(Interleukin 1 and 2). Known chemical purification of several adjuvants of active
components of bacterial origin includes: Bordetella pertussis, Mycobacterium
tuberculosis, lipopoly-saccharide, Freund's Complete Adjuvant (FCA) and Freund's
Incomplete Adjuvant (Difco Laboratories, Detroit, Mich.) and Merck Adjuvant 65
(Merck and Company, Inc., Rahway, N.J.). In a specific aspect, Freund's Complete
Adjuvant or Freund's Incomplete Adjuvant is employed in the immunization
compositions of the disclosure. Additionally suitable adjuvants in accordance with the
present invention are e.g. Titermax Classical adjuvant (SIGMA-ALDRICH), ISCOMS,
Quil A, ALUN, see U.S. Pat. Nos. 58767 and 5,554,372, Lipid A derivatives,
choleratoxin derivatives, HSP derivatives, LPS derivatives, synthetic peptide matrixes,
GMDP, and other as well as combined with immunostimulants (U.S. Pat. No.
5,876,735). B. pertussis is of interest as an adjuvant in the context of the present

invention due to its ability to modulate cell-mediated immunity through action on T
lymphocyte populations. Freund's Complete Adjuvant is the standard in most
experimental studies. Mineral oil may be added to the vaccination composition in order
to protect the antigen from rapid catabolism.
[00101] Many other types of materials can be used as adjuvants in immunogenic or
immunization compositions according to the present disclosure. They include plant
products such as saponin, animal products such as chitin and numerous synthetic
chemicals.
[00102] Chickens immunized by the intramuscular route can produce high specific
antibody levels in their eggs by day 28 after immunization and continue producing
specific antibodies during more than 200 days making antibody preparations available
in a short period of time, e.g. less than 4-5 weeks. Eggs contain IgY antibody
concentrations of from up to about 50 to about 100 mg per egg. Over 100 mg of
purified IgY can be obtained from a single egg. The percentage of antigen specific
antibodies in one egg yolk can be up to about 2% to 10%. (daSilva et al., IgY: A
promising antibody for use in immunodiagnostic and in immunotherapy. Veterinary
Immunol. Immunopath., 135(2010):173-180).
One chicken of a high egg-laying strain can produce around 20 eggs per month. Eggs
weigh from about 33 to about 77 grams, with about 10.5 % of the whole egg due to
shell. The yolk is about 310%of the weight of the whole egg. Upon drying, about 1 kg
of dried whole egg powder can be produced from 72 eggs. Therefore, in this
calculation, one egg can return about 13.9 g dried whole egg. In another aspect, one
immune egg can return from 10 g to about 15 g dried whole egg. In another aspect, the
immune eggs of the disclosure are from 40 to 55 mL per egg with about 1-2 mg/mL
total IgY per egg. In another aspect, immune eggs of the disclosure contain about 0.01
mg/mL to 0.05 mg/mL specific IgY per egg. Therefore, in one aspect after processing,
one dried whole immune egg contains about 80 to 110 mg total IgY and about 6 to 10
mg of total mixed antigen-specific IgY, e.g., from a chicken immunized with, for
example a mixed antigen preparation.
[00103] It can be determined whether the vaccine has elicited an immune response in
the egg-producing animal through a number of methods known to those having skill in
the art of immunology. Examples of these include enzyme-linked immunosorbent

assays (ELISA), tests for the presence of antibodies to the stimulating antigens, and
tests designed to evaluate the ability of immune cells from the host to respond to the
antigen. The minimum dosage of immunogen necessary to induce an immune response
depends on the vaccination procedure used, including the type of adjuvants and
formulation of immunogen(s) used as well as the type of egg-producing animal used as
the host.
[00104] In one embodiment, hen chickens suitable for the commercial production of
eggs are employed in the production of polyclonal antibodies. Any breed of chicken
appropriate for egg production can be employed. For example, Rhode Island Reds,
White Leghorns, Brown Leghorns, Lohmann Brown hens, sex-linked hybrid crosses, or
other breeds suited to large egg size, high volume egg production and ease of handling
can be selected. In one aspect, chickens are inoculated as chicks as for standard
diseases (e.g. Salmonella, avian influenza, or Newcastle virus etc.). In one aspect,
chickens of any age can be inoculated. Hens which are about to reach laying age, about
15-19 weeks for chickens, or any preselected time before or thereafter, are inoculated
on a schedule predetermined by the amount and timing of final product to result in a
steady continuous production stream. Typically, after a suitable period of isolation and
acclimatization of about 2 to 4 weeks, each group will enter into an inoculation program
using various antigens or immunization compositions comprising specific antigens to
which an antibody is desired.
[00105] In one embodiment, the eggs are collected from inoculated chickens and
processed as whole eggs. Eggs are stored under refrigeration conditions until enough
are collected to prepare a batch. Batches of eggs from predetermined groups of
chickens are cracked, the contents are separated from the shells and mixed and
preferably pasteurized to eliminate potential contamination from pathogenic
microorganisms from the chicken.
[00106] In one aspect, the immune egg products are pasteurized. Egg products are
processed in sanitary facilities. Shell eggs are processed into immune egg product by
automated equipment that removes the shell eggs from flats, washes and sanitizes the
shells, breaks the eggs. Optionally, the whites are separated from the yolks. The liquid
egg product is optionally filtered, optionally mixed with other ingredients, and is then
chilled prior to additional processing. The resulting egg products liquid then receives a

lethality treatment such as pasteurization or is heated in the dried form. In the U.S., the
1970 Egg Products Inspection Act (EPIA) requires that all egg products distributed for
consumption be pasteurized.
[00107] Following pasteurization, the total egg content is dried using standard
commercial methods, such as spray drying using ambient or hot air, thermal drying,
freeze drying, or lyophilization. Aln one aspect, an appropriate method of drying the
pasteurized liquid egg minimizes damage to the antibodies and molecular components
in the egg, resulting in a product that has a high nutrient value and is capable of
conferring passive protection.
[00108] In one aspect, the dried egg is tested to determine overall titer or antibody
level. Standard test procedures are used, such as ELISA, FIA (fluorescent
immunoassay), RIA (radioimmunoassay), or the like. In another aspect, the batch is
blended with batches from groups of chickens at other average production levels
resulting in a lot containing a standardized amount of antibodies. The dried egg
containing specific polyclonal antibodies may be stored in an airtight container at room
temperature prior to formulation into the compositions of the disclosure. In
embodiments, the dried egg material is used as a whole egg and is not separated out. In
embodiments, the whole dried egg material contains at least 5 mg per egg of specific
IgY.
[00109] In another embodiment, IgY is isolated. The first step in the isolation of IgY
is to separate the water-soluble proteins from lipoproteins. Water-soluble proteins
constitute 42.4% of the total proteins in egg yolk (Osuga et al., "Egg Proteins: In Food
Proteins, J. R. Whitaker and S. R. Tannenbaum eds., AVI Pub. Co., Westport, Conn.
(1977)).
[00110] Many methods have been used for the isolation and purification of
immunoglobulins from egg yolk (Martin et al., Can J. Biochem. Physiol. 35:241 (1957);
Martin et al., Can. J. Biochem Physiol. 36:153 (1958); Jensenius et al., J. Immunol.
Methods 46:63 (1981); Bade et al., J. Immunol. Methods 72:421 (1984); Polson et al.,
Immunol. Invest. 14:323 (1985); Hassl et al., J. Immunol. Methods 110:225 (1988)).
Hatta et al. (Agric. Biol. Chem. 54:2531 (1990)) used food-grade natural gums (e.g.,
carrageenan) to remove yolk lipoprotein as a precipitate and to recover IgY in the
water-soluble fraction from egg yolk. Methods for recovering antibodies from chicken

                                            L I
egg yolk are well known in the art. Several methods can be used for the extraction of
IgY from egg yolk, and commercial extraction kits are available (van Regenmortel, M.
H. V. (1993). Eggs as protein and antibody factories. In Proceedings of the European
Symposium on the Quality of Poultry Meat, pp. 257-263. Tours, France: INRA).
[00111] In another embodiment, the steric specific binding molecule may be a
monoclonal antibody specific for a pathogenic component.
[00112] Monoclonal antibodies may be made using the hybridoma method first
described by Kohler et al., Nature.256:495 (1975), or may be made by recombinant
DNA methods (U.S. 4,816,567). In the hybridoma method, a mouse or other
appropriate host animal, such as a hamster, is immunized as described above to elicit
lymphocytes that produce or are capable of producing antibodies that will specifically
bind to the protein used for immunization. Alternatively, lymphocytes may be
immunized in vitro. After immunization, lymphocytes are isolated and then fused with a
myeloma cell line using a suitable fusing agent, such as polyethylene glycol, to form a
hybridoma cell (Goding, Monoclonal Antibodies: Principles and Practice, pp.59-103
(Academic Press, 1986)).
[00113] Culture medium in which hybridoma cells are growing is assayed for
production of monoclonal antibodies directed against the antigen. Preferably, the
binding specificity of monoclonal antibodies produced by hybridoma cells is
determined by immunoprecipitation or by an in vitro binding assay, such as
radioimmunoassay (RIA) or enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The
binding affinity of the monoclonal antibody can, for example, be determined by the
Scatchard analysis described in Munson et al., Anal. Biochem.. 107:220 (1980).
[00114] The monoclonal antibodies secreted by the subclones are suitably separated
from the culture medium, ascites fluid, or serum by conventional antibody purification
procedures such as, for example, affinity chromatography (e.g., using protein A or
protein G-Sepharose) or ion-exchange chromatography, hydroxylapatite
chromatography, gel electrophoresis, dialysis, etc.
[00115] DNA encoding the monoclonal antibodies is readily isolated and sequenced
using conventional procedures (e.g., by using oligonucleotide probes that are capable of
binding specifically to genes encoding the heavy and light chains of murine antibodies).
The hybridoma cells serve as a preferred source of such DNA. Once isolated, the DNA

may be placed into expression vectors, which are then transfected into host cells such as
E. coli cells, simian COS cells, Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cells, or myeloma cells
that do not otherwise produce antibody protein, to obtain the synthesis of monoclonal
antibodies in the recombinant host cells. Review articles on recombinant expression in
bacteria of DNA encoding the antibody include Skerra et al., Curr. Opinion in
Immunol., 5:256-262 (1993) and Plsckthun. Immunol. Revs. 130:151-188 (1992).
[00116] In a further embodiment, monoclonal antibodies or antibody fragments can be
isolated from antibody phage libraries generated using the techniques described in
McCafferty et al,. Nature. 348:552-554 (1990). Clackson et al.Nature.352:624-628
(1991) and Marks et al.,.J. Mol. Biol., 222:581-597 (1991) describe the isolation of
murine and human antibodies, respectively, using phage libraries. Subsequent
publications describe the production of high affinity (nM range) human antibodies by
chain shuffling (Marks et al., Bio/Technology. 10:779-783 (1992)), as well as
combinatorial infection and in vivo recombination as a strategy for constructing very
large phage libraries (Waterhouse et al., Nuc. Acids. Res.21 :2265-2266 (1993)). Thus,
these techniques are viable alternatives to traditional monoclonal antibody hybridoma
techniques for isolation of monoclonal antibodies.
[00117] The DNA that encodes the antibody may be modified to produce chimeric or
fusion antibody polypeptides, for example, by substituting human heavy chain and light
chain constant domain (CH and CL) sequences for the homologous murine sequences
(U.S. Patent No. 4,816,567; and Morrison, et al., Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA, 81:6851
(1984)), or by fusing the immunoglobulin coding sequence with all or part of the coding
sequence for a non-immunoglobulin polypeptide (heterologous polypeptide). The non
immunoglobulin polypeptide sequences can substitute for the constant domains of an
antibody, or they are substituted for the variable domains of one antigen-combining site
of an antibody to create a chimeric bivalent antibody comprising one antigen
combining site having specificity for an antigen and another antigen-combining site
having specificity for a different antigen.
         ANTIGENS FOR IMMUNIZATION TO PREPARE A SPECIFIC
                                    BINDING PROTEIN
[00118] The antigens selected for immunization can be bacterial, viral, protozoal,
fungal, parasitic, cellular, or any other substances to which the immune system of an

                                              z 7
animal will respond. In one aspect, the immunogenicity of the antigens is enhanced by
use of an adjuvant.
[00119] In one aspect, the animal is inoculated with the pathogenic components,
antigens, or immunogens in a vaccination composition, inoculant or vaccine. In one
aspect, the pathogenic components or specific antigens can be obtained or derived from
commercial sources such as the American Type Culture Collection (ATCC). In another
aspect, the pathogenic components can be isolated from a wild type strain. In another
aspect, the pathogenic components or undesirable strains are present in a mixed antigen
preparation. Any antigens or combination of antigens derived from various undesirable
strains or pathogenic components can be employed in the immunization composition.
[00120] In one aspect, the inoculant, antigen or immunogen is selected to a common or
preserved component or region of the targeted antigen cluster, while ignoring the
variable or distinguishing components or regions of the individual members of the
cluster of related antigens. The method involves the preparation of an appropriate
immunogen with characteristics that elicit the production of antibodies that are cross
reactive to desired instances of that epitope, but which are not reactive to other epitopes,
and the inoculation or exposure of the producing cells or organism to that immunogen
so as to cause the production of antibodies, with the resultant antibodies being
embedded within the suitable carrier matrix for administration. Formulations of this
type may be developed that use admixtures of antibodies produced according to this
method to provide broad coverage of more than one cluster of target antigens. For
example, in the case where two clusters of unrelated antigens are associated with a
disease or condition, and it is desirable to create a single formulation to address this
disease or condition, an admixture of two antibodies, immunoglobulins, or biological
immune factors may be prepared using this method that simultaneously provides two
broad domains of reactivity. One example of this embodiment is for the production of
antitoxin antibodies that are specifically reactive to clusters of structurally related
toxins.
[00121] In one embodiment, this approach is used to make a broadly reactive antibody
to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) (endotoxin) from any Gram-negative bacteria (Escherichia
coli, Salmonella, Shigella, and other Enterobacteriaceae, Pseudomonas, Moraxella,
Helicobacter,Stenotrophomonas,and others), or for example a broadly reactive

antibody to AB5 toxins (including Campylobacterenterotoxin, cholera toxin, heat
labile enterotoxins (LT and LT-II) (E. coli), pertussis toxin, shiga toxin (Shigella),
shiga-like toxin (or verotoxin)).
[00122] In a preferred aspect, these example anti-toxin antibodies have effect without
regard to the species originating the toxin. In another aspect, the antibodies produced
are neutralizing antibodies, capable of neutralizing or inactivating the biological activity
of the target toxins. Such a broad-spectrum neutralizing antibody could be used to
intervene in pathology cases (for example certain types of diarrhea) where the toxin
mediating the symptoms was one of the cluster targeted (in these examples, AB5 or
LPS), without requiring knowledge of which organism was causative. Further, if an
admixture was prepared containing both the anti AB5 antibody and the anti LPS
antibody in clinically effective amounts, the formulation could be used to intervene in
case where the active toxin was either AB5 or LPS or both.
[00123] This method can be extended to include any number of (in this example) toxin
clusters, and to include broad-spectrum neutralizing antibodies to mediators of other
toxin-like reactions (for example viral toxin-like phenomena), to create a broadly
applicable intervention (in this example to) diarrhea where symptoms and pathology
can be managed without knowledge of the infectious causes, or where there are multiple
infectious causes. In one aspect, the disclosure provides a composition comprising a
synergistic combination of anti-toxin antibodies combined in a carrier matrix.
[00124] In some embodiments, the methods and compositions of the invention are
used for a variety of pathogens or agents including, without limitation, cholera toxin
(Vibrio cholera), . coli (including enterotoxigenic (ETEC)), Shigella, Salmonella,
Campylobacter, Clostridium difficile, parasites(e.g., Giardia,Entamoeba histolytica,
Cryptosporidiosis,Cyclospora), and diarrheal viruses (e.g., rotavirus).
[00125] After entering the gastrointestinal tract many pathogens, including but not
limited to bacteria such as F. coli, bind (adhere) to epithelial, mucosal, or other tissue
and become embedded in gastrointestinal tract tissue, such as the wall of the intestine.
After binding to tissue in the gastrointestinal tract the pathogens replicate, causing an
increase in toxin concentrations, either directly from production or indirectly from
increased lysing of pathogen cells by immune system action. Inhibiting the ability of
pathogens to bind to the gastrointestinal tract tissue promotes a more effective

                                                 I
 mobilization of the pathogens, digestion and excretion before colonies of sufficient size
 to cause lesions and other symptoms are formed. By blocking the class of receptors and
 ligands on the pathogen that would be used to adhere to the gastrointestinal tract,
 including but not limited to adhesins, cadherins, cilia, fimbrillae, and/or viral adhesion
 structures, adhesion to gastrointestinal tract tissue can be prevented or minimized,
 ultimately resulting in substantially decreased pathology from pathogens that utilize this
 mode of action.
 [00126] In various embodiments, the pathogen is selected from one or a combination
 of human or veterinary, enteric or gastrointestinal, pathogens causing gastroenteritis. In
 various aspect, the pathogen is selected from the group consisting of: Campylobacter
jejuni, Salmonella, Salmonella typhimurium, Salmonella enterica serovarTyphi,
 Shigella dystenteriae, Plesiomonasshigelloides, Escherichiacoli [including (EPEC)
 enteropathogenic E. coli, (ETEC) enterotoxigenic E. coli, (EaggEC) enteroaggregative
E. coli, (EIEC) enteroinvasive E. coli, and (EHEC) haemorrhagic E. coli], Yersinia
 enterocolitica, Vibrio cholerae 01, Vibrio 0139, Non-01 Vibrios, Vibrio
parahaemolyticus,Aeromonas hydrophila, Clostridiumperfiingens, Clostridium
 difficile, enterohepatic Helicobacter (including Helicobacterpylori),Staphylococcus
 aureus, Klebsiella, rotavirus, coronavirus, norovirus, calicivirus, enteric adenovirus,
 cytomegalovirus, and astrovirus. In another aspect, the pathogen related toxin includes
 an endotoxin or exotoxin. In another aspect, the pathogen related adhesion element
 includes adhesins, cadherins, cilia, fimbrillae, a viral adhesion structure, or a
 combination thereof.
 [00127] In various specific aspects the pathogenic components, immunogens or
 antigens can be derived from, e.g., Rotavirus, Corona virus; Clostridium Perfringens
 Type C; Escherichia coli (cellular); Enterotoxigenic strains of, and Enterotoxins from,
 E.coli; any bacteria having K99, K88, 987P, or F41 pili adherence factor antigen;
 endotoxin (or LPS) caused by E. coli and Salmonella typhimurium (gram negative
 bacteria, generally). In a particular aspect, hens are inoculated with antigens or toxins
 derived from one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, or eight, or a number of pathogenic
 microorganisms.
 [00128] In one aspect, the immune response is more potent when the distance between
 the antigen source and the immune system of the vaccinated animal increases.

[00129] In a specific embodiment, a first flock of chickens is inoculated with a first
one mixed antigenic preparation. In one aspect, a second flock of chickens is
inoculated with a second mixed antigenic preparation containing a different set of
antigens than the first. In another aspect, a third flock of chickens is inoculated with a
third mixed antigenic preparation. In a further aspect, a fourth flock of chickens is
inoculated with a fourth mixed antigenic preparation. While not meant to limit the
scope of the invention, it is believed to be advantageous to immunize different flocks
with different antigens in order to avoid antigen overload.
[00130] Eggs from each flock are collected, optionally titered as to specific and/or total
IgY, optionally isolated and/or purified, and processed separately to prepare a dry
powder. In another aspect, dry powdered eggs from the first and second; first, second
and third; or first, second, third and fourth flocks are blended, or packaged, with a
carrier matrix to prepare a composition of the disclosure. In one aspect, a first antigenic
preparation comprises bovine rotavirus (serotypes G6 and G10), bovine coronavirus,
enterotoxigenic strains of Escherichia coli having the K99 pili adherence factor, and
Clostridium perfringens type C. The mixed antigenic preparation can is optionally
adjuvanted to enhance the immune response.
[00131] In another aspect, a second antigenic preparation comprises beta toxin
produced by Clostridium perfringens type C and enterotoxigenic strains of Escherichia
coli producing heat-labile toxin or having the K99, K88, 987P, or F41 adherence
factors.
[00132] In one aspect, a third antigenic preparation comprises E. coli and Salmonella
typhimurium. JVAC reduces the incidence and severity of endotoxemia caused by E.
coli and Salmonella typhimurium. Commonly associated with their endotoxins are
Coliform Mastitis and other gram-negative diseases associated with Endotoxemia.
[00133] In another aspect, the antigens are prepared by any means known in the art.
For example, cells from a wild type source, such as an animal suffering from, e.g., .
coli diarrhea. The isolate cells can be cultured in, e.g., Trypticase Soy Broth (TSB) at
37 'C overnight and concentrated by centrifugation. The resulting pellet can be re
suspended with 0.4% formaldehyde in PBS buffer and incubated at 37'C for
inactivation. Formaldehyde can be removed by centrifugation. The pellet can be

resuspended in PBS and used as antigen. In one aspect, the antigens are emulsified with
an equal volume of adjuvant prior to inoculation.
[00134] In another embodiment, the antigens are selected from those pathogenic
organisms causing conjunctivitis. Known causative pathogens are described in US
2008/0031903, Gambotto et al., which is incorporated herein by reference.
[00135] Epidemic Keratoconjuctivitis (EKC) is a debilitating infectious disease of the
eye that is seen all over the world. The disease is caused mostly by adenoviruses
especially serotype 8, 19 and 37. Serotype 3, 4 and 11 were also implicated in some
EKC epidemics. The disease affects all age groups, is highly contagious and spreads
quickly in schools, schools, swimming pools, pediatric unit and camps. Treatment is
presently symptomatic as there is no effective treatment. Development of effective anti
viral topical agent is desirable to treat the disease and prevent epidemic.
[00136] Conjunctivitis also can be caused by a number of additional bacterial, viral,
fungal and protozoa agents, including, but not limited to: S. aureus, S. pneumoniae, H.
influenzae, Neisseriagonorrhoeae,Chlamydia trachomatis, Adenovirus, Herpes
Simplex, Herpes zoster virus, Enteroviruses, Fusarium species, Candida species and
Acanthamoeba species. Certain viral infections, such as adenoviral infections may be
treated with antiviral drug products, such as cidofovir. Typically, drug products have
side effects, such as the ocular and renal side effects associated with cidofovir. Other
logistical issues arise with drug products, including stability, cost of production, etc. As
such, an inexpensive, readily-available, well-accepted and stable drug product for
treatment of ocular infections is desirable.
[00137] In one aspect, the disclosure provides a composition for the treatment of
conjunctivitis, or pink eye, comprising polyclonal antibodies to these pathogens
combined in a carrier matrix as described below. The antibodies are produced as
described herein.
[00138] In another embodiment, the antigens are selected from those pathogenic
organisms causing vaginitis. The infection may be bacterial, fungal (yeast), or parasitic.
Bacterial vaginitis can be caused, for example, by Gardnerella spp., Neisseria
gonorrhoeae, Chlamydiaceae trachomatis, Mycoplasma spp.,

Campylobacterjejuni. Parasitic vaginitis can be caused by, e.g., Trichomonas vaginalis.
Viral vaginitis can be caused by e.g., herpes virus type 1 or type 2.
Candidal vaginitis is caused by yeastlike fungi Candida. There are more than 170
species of yeastlike fungi is described. C. albicans is the most frequent causative agent
of a candidal vaginitis in 85-90% of women. C. glabrata (5-10%), C. tropicalis (3-5%),
C. parapsilosis (3-5%) and C. krusei (1-3%) are also clinically significant among other
species of Candida. Any of these pathogens may be selected as the antigenic source for
polyclonal antibody production as described herein.
[00139] Candidal vulvovaginitis is frequently caused by a number of predisposing
factors, such as long and uncontrolled using of antibiotics, corticosteroids, cytostatics,
oral contraceptives, radiation therapy, serious infectious disease, endocrine disorder,
immunodeficiency state, etc. Prescription of broad spectrum antibiotics suppresses not
only pathogenic bacteria, but also mucous vaginas saprophytes: lactobacilli and
bifidobacteria. As a result vaginal pH raises (towards to alkaline range), and disturbance
of self-cleaning processes occurs. Besides, Candida is able to use some antibiotics as
nutrient substrates. Thus favorable conditions for active overgrowth of Candida arises
in female genital organs. In one aspect, the disclosure provides a composition for the
treatment of vaginitis comprising polyclonal antibodies to one or more of the described
pathogens combined in a carrier matrix as described below.
[00140] In a specific aspect, the composition of the disclosure comprising a mixture of
specific polyclonal antibodies in a carrier matrix provides a broad spectrum method of
treating bacterial, viral, fungal or parasitic vaginitis. In another aspect, the
compositions of the disclosure can be used to treat undifferentiated vaginitis in a subject
in need thereof.
[00141] Other specific binding molecules
The compositions and methods of the disclosure include other specific binding
molecules including transfer factors, variable lymphocyte receptors and cell receptors.
A transfer factor is an immune molecule of approximately 5000 Daltons, made up of
amino acids, that cause antigen-specific cell-mediated immunity, primarily delayed
hypersensitivity and the production of lymphokines, as well as binding to the antigens
themselves. (Kirkpatrick 1993, Structural nature and functions of transfer factors. Ann.
N.Y. Acad. Sci. 685:362-368.) Variable lymphocyte receptors are lymphocyte-derived

molecules discovered injawless vertebrates such as the lamprey and hagfish. These
animals possess a large array of variable lymphocyte receptors that are produced from
only a small number of genes and that bind to pathogenic antigens in a similar way to
antibodies, and with the same degree of specificity. (Alder et al., 2005, Diversity and
function of adaptive immune receptors in a jawless vertebrate. Science,
310(5756):1970-1973).
CARRIER MATRIX
[00142] The disclosure provides compositions for the treatment or prophylaxis of
pathogenic infection in a subject. The compositions comprise specific binding
molecules, such as polyclonal antibodies, combined with a carrier matrix. While not
meant to limit the scope of the invention, the carrier matrix serves a dual purpose. First,
to protect the antibodies in their intended functional environment, for example, upon
oral administration, and within the gastrointestinal tract of the non-neonate subject; and
further to provide components, e.g., components of the innate immune system, to react
synergistically with the antibodies in the management of an infection.
[00143] The term "carrier matrix", or protective/reactive matrix, refers to any
substrate, compound, formulation, or supplemental admixture (whether natural or
synthetic) containing elements, co-factors, or other components in appropriate ratios
and concentrations so as to supply elements required to propagate, promote, support, or
enhance an in situ immune-type response, cascade, or reaction. These elements may
variously promote cleavage and maturation reactions, the formation of assemblies and
complexes, depletion and adsorption functions, supply essential elements, biologics, or
compounds, and provide protective functions for active elements or components. A
carrier matrix may or may not contain endogenous antibodies (immune factors), which
may or may not be specific to targeted antigens.
[00144] In one embodiment, the carrier matrix the matrix is selected from, or derived
from, serum, plasma, colostrum, milk, saliva, lymph fluid, mucous, or lachrymal fluid
derived from a non-human mammal.
[00145] An example of a naturally occurring carrier matrix is colostrum. Colostrum
has evolved naturally in mammals specifically to deliver its components to neonates to
and through the gastrointestinal tract in a very concentrated low-volume form.
Colostrum, or "first milk", is produced by mammals immediately postpartum. The

antibodies and cofactors are passed to the neonate from the mother and provide the first
protection against pathogens. Growth factors also stimulate the development and repair
of the gut.
[00146] Colostrum contains a host of immuno-complimentary factors. They include
interferons, immunglobulins (including IgG and secretory IgA), polymorphonuclear
leukocytes, macrophages, and lymphocytes. Colostrum also contains proline-rich
polypeptide, or PRP, a T-cell activator. Colostrum is known to be high in
immunoglobulin content compared to milk. Colostrum is known to contain antibodies
such as IgA, IgG, and IgM in mammals. IgA is absorbed through the intestinal
epithelium, travels through the blood, and is secreted onto other Type 1 mucosal
surfaces. Bovine Colostrum is noted to be anywhere from 6% to 20% immunoglobulin;
primarily IgGi and IgG2. In one aspect, whole bovine colostrum is used as the carrier
matrix.
[00147] Colostrum also helps to regulate the intestinal environment, rendering it
hostile to foreign pathogens. Colostrum contains lactoferrin, an iron-binding protein
that prevents bacteria and viruses from obtaining iron necessary for replication.
Colostrum also selectively fertilizes certain probiotic species that in turn help to ward
off infection. It is the only natural source of two major growth factors, Transforming
Growth Factors (TGF) alpha and beta, as well as a source of Insulin-Growth Factors 1
and 2. These factors promote tissue repair and development. Colostrum is also a source
of Hepatocyte Growth Factor, which stimulates the growth and expansion of intestinal
wall cells. Colostrum is naturally designed to serve as a carrier matrix within a
gastrointestinal environment. Synthetic versions of a carrier matrix are also included in
this disclosure. Carrier matrices that are composed of both natural and synthetic
components are also included within the disclosure.
[00148] Colostrum is very rich in proteins, vitamin A, and sodium chloride, but
contains lower amounts of carbohydrates, lipids, and potassium than normal milk. The
most pertinent bioactive components in colostrum are growth factors and antimicrobial
factors. The antibodies in colostrum provide passive immunity, while growth factors
stimulate the development of the gut. They are passed to the neonate and provide the
first protection against pathogens. The passive immunity from the mother gets
transferred to the newborn.

                                             J /
[00149] Newborns have very small digestive systems, and colostrum delivers its
nutrients in a very concentrated low-volume form. The gastrointestinal tract of the
neonate is particularly receptive to passive transfer of immunity from colostrum. At
birth gastric pH ranges vary from 6-8 due to residual amniotic fluid in the stomach.
Gastric pH then falls to a pH of 1.5 to 3 in 24 to 48 hours. Therefore, The GI
conditions of the newborn are conducive to passive immunization. In addition, gastric
emptying time in neonates and premature infants is prolonged, with adult values being
reached at 6-8 months of age. The antibodies and cofactors in colostrum can, under
certain circumstances (e.g., breastfeeding) provide a passive immunity to the recipient;
this is particularly true for the neonate. The gastrointestinal tract of non-neonatal
babies, children, adolescents and healthy adults is a more hostile environment with
respect to oral administration of immunoglobulins.
[00150] Other immune components of colostrum include the major components of the
innate immune system, such as lactoferrin, transferrin, lysozyme, lactoperoxidase,
complement, and proline-rich polypeptides (PRP). A number of cytokines (small
messenger peptides that control the functioning of the immune system) are found in
colostrum as well, including interleukins, tumor necrosis factor, chemokines, and
others. Colostrum also contains a number of growth factors, such as insulin-like growth
factors I, and II, transforming growth factors alpha, beta 1 and beta 2, fibroblast growth
factors, epidermal growth factor, granulocyte-macrophage-stimulating growth factor,
platelet-derived growth factor, vascular endothelial growth factor, and colony
stimulating factor-1.
[00151] In one aspect, the carrier matrix is comprised of two or more, three or more,
four or more, five or more, or six or more, or seven or more non-immunoglobulin
components of colostrum. In another aspect, the carrier matrix comprises colostrum
that has been processed to remove the majority of immunoglobulins. In embodiments, a
carrier matrix comprises at least two components obtained from a nonhuman animal
selected from the group consisting of enzymes, lactoferrin, transferrin, nonspecific
immunoglobulins, components of the complement system, cytokines, white blood cells,
complement components, interferons, and fibronectin, wherein the at least one specific
binding molecule and the at least two components of the carrier matrix are obtained
from different animals.

[00152] In another aspect, the matrix is comprised of two or more agents selected from
lysozyme, phospholipase, defensins, opsonins, proline-rich polypeptides (PRP), beta
lysin, lactoferrin, transferrin, cytokines, interleukins, chemokines, interferons, TNF
alpha, fibronectin, proline-rich polypeptides, insulin growth factor type 1, insulin
Growth Factor type 2, derived platelet growth factor, epidermal growth factor,
fibroblast platelet growth factor, transforming growth factor alpha, transforming growth
factor beta, nerve growth factor, leptin, leukocytes,white blood cells, phagocytes,
macrophages, monocytes, neutrophils, polymorphonuclear cells, and dendritic cells,
mast cells, eosinophils, basophils, natural killer (NK) cells, lymphokine activated killer
(LAK) cells, cationic proteins including defensins, proteolytic enzymes including
elastase, cathepsin G, myeloperoxidase, NADPH oxidase components, or a combination
thereof. In another aspect, the matrix includes a mixture of agents from the innate
immune system. In a preferred aspect, the carrier matrix is comprised of non
hyperimmune bovine colostrum.
[00153] Bovine colostrum is produced by cows for their newborn calves. In many
dairy cow herds the calves are not permitted to nurse; rather, they are fed colostrum and
later milk from a bottle then a bucket. The colostrum is collected and processed for
commercial uses. Various compositions including colostrum and processes for
preparing colostrum have been disclosed in U.S. Patent Numbers US 5,846,569, US
6,410,058, US 6,475,511, and US 6,521,277, the contents of which are incorporated by
reference in their entireties. Dried bovine colostrum is commercially available. In one
specific aspect, the carrier matrix is commercial dried bovine colostrum.
[00154] Livestock husbands/breeders commonly bank colostrum from their animals.
Colostrum produced on their own premises is considered to be superior to colostrum
from other sources, because it is produced by animals already exposed to (and thus
making antibodies to) pathogens occurring on the premises. Generally, colostrum from
animals exposed to relevant pathogens will have superior immunological
characteristics.
[00155] Bovine colostrum and its components are safe for human consumption, except
in the context of intolerance or allergy to lactose or other components. Bovine
colostrum from pasture-fed cows contains immunoglobulins specific to many human
pathogens, including Escherichiacoli, Cryptosporidiumparvum, Shigellaflexneri,

Salmonella, Staphylococcus, and rotavirus, depending upon their natural exposure to
these pathogens. Before the development of antibiotics, colostrum was the main source
of immunoglobulins used to fight infections.
[00156] Hyperimmune colostrum represents an attempt to boost the effectiveness of
natural bovine colostrum by immunizing cows with a specific pathogen. This approach
is promising as antibodies are produced to the specific pathogens or antigens used in the
original challenge. However, varying response to antigens, biological variability, and
low production yield of colostrum have limited its clinical and commercial utility.
[00157] In one aspect, the disclosure provides a composition comprising colostrum
that is not hyperimmune colostrum or that does not contain a measurable or significant
amount of antibodies specific for the pathogenic or target antigen components. In
another aspect, the disclosure provides a composition in which the carrier matrix
contains various components of the innate immune system without a significant amount
of either specific or non-specific antibodies.
[00158] In one embodiment, the colostrum can be processed to remove the majority of
immunoglobulin, e.g., by absorbing the antibodies onto an affinity resin (e.g. Protein G
or Protein A Sepharose; or Protein A or Protein G Agarose) in a batch or column format
and retaining the eluate for further processing. Immunoglobulin can also be removed
by gel filtration chromatography on Sephadex G-200 or DEAE Sephadex A-25 ion
exchange chromatography. (Lloyd and Soulsby, Immunology, The role of IgA
immunoglobulin in the passive transfer of protection to Taenia taeniaeformis in the
mouse. 34, 939-945) These processes can be run on a column or a batch format by
various methods and techniques known in the art.
[00159] In one specific embodiment, the carrier matrix includes colostrum. In one
aspect, commercial colostrum is employed as the supportive/reactive matrix. In a
preferred aspect, the commercial bovine colostrum is an agglomerated and instantized,
pasteurized, full cream, whole colostrum powder produced from first milking colostrum
only. In another aspect, the colostrum is processed at low pressures and low
temperatures and is spray dried using indirect steam to maintain maximum bioactivity.
In another aspect the commercial colostrum is from antibiotic free sources. In another
aspect, the colostrum is subjected to microbiological analysis and is found to be
negative, or below acceptable levels with respect to a variety of pathogens. In various

other aspects, the colostrum is assayed for other contaminants such as nitrates,
aflatoxin, nitrofuran, dioxins, melamine, and heavy metals and found to be negative or
below specified levels.
[00160] In one embodiment, the invention may be composed of colostrums of several
hyper-immunized sources, each targeting a different cluster or class of antigen, where
the colostrums are admixed to provide a broad-spectrum antibody formulation.
[00161] In another embodiment, the carrier matrix is comprised of a reconstituted or
artificial mucosal secretion such as tear fluid, nasal or bronchial mucous, cervical
mucous, seminal plasma, sweat, blood plasma or saliva. Body fluids are known to
contain several components in varying amounts. (Schenkels et al., Biochemical
composition of human saliva in relation to other fluids, Crit. Rev. Oral Biol. Med.,
1995, 6(2):161-175). Saliva contain mucins, acidic PRPs, alpha-amylase, basic PRPs,
basic PRG, secretory IgA, cystatins, statherin, IgG, extra-parotid glycoprotein (EP-GP),
VEGh (a lipocalin), histatins, lysozyme, kallikrein, lactoferrin, lactoperoxidase,
haptocorrin, beta-microseminoprotein, IgM, albumin, and Zn-alpha2-glycoprotein. In
one aspect, the carrier matrix comprises two or more, three or more, four or more, five
or more, six or more, or seven or more of the components of body fluids.
[00162] Tear fluid, or lachrymal fluid, has many of the same components as saliva and
has a particularly high concentration of secretory IgA, VEGh, lysozyme, and
lactoferrin. In one aspect, artificial lacrimal fluids containing salts such as sodium
chloride and the like as a main ingredient, or eye drops containing
hydroxyethylcellulose, chondroitin sulfate or hyaluronic acid or xanthan gum (US
7,875,271, which is incorporated herein by reference) as known in the art are fortified
with two or more, three or more, four or more, five or more components of the body
fluids as described and used as a carrier matrix for purified polyclonal antibodies, as
described herein. In one aspect, a composition could be used to treat microbial
infections of the eye, such as pink eye.
[00163] Cervical mucous contains mucins, alpha-amylase, lysozyme, lactoperoxidase,
albumin, and beta-microseminoprotein. The matrix is formed by combination of two or
more, three or more, four or more, five or more of these components as a carrier matrix
in a composition with a steric specific binding molecule, such as anti-bacterial or anti
fungal polyclonal antibodies, prepared by the methods of the disclosure.

                                             ""f 1
[00164] In one aspect, the disclosure provides a composition comprising a gum
capable of fixing water or swellable in water, containing carboxymethylstarch
combined with a cellulose as a permeating agent, which when put into contact with
water form almost instantaneously gels and is readily applicable for vaginal application.
Tablets comprising the antibody/matrix composition of the disclosure could for
example comprise carboxymethylstarch and cellulose as described in US 4,808,415,
which is incorporated herein by reference. In a particular aspect, the antibacterial and
antifungal polyclonal antibodies are combined in the matrix and formulated to provide a
broad spectrum treatment for vaginosis. In one aspect, the composition is used to treat
a vaginal bacterial infection, such as trichomonas infection, or fungal vaginosis, such as
a candida infection.
[00165] Saliva is a mucosal secretion present in the oral cavity and produced by
salivary glands. Saliva serves protective functions such as tissue coating, lubrication,
humidification, and remineralization of the teeth. Saliva also serves host defense
functions with immunological activity, anti-bacterial, anti-viral and anti-fungal activity.
Saliva also serves digestive activity with digestive enzymes, bolus formation and taste.
Saliva contains various proteins such as histatins, and acidic proline-rich proteins that
are unique to saliva. Saliva also contains proteins present in other body fluids such as
lysozyme, mucins, statherins and immunoglobulins. Saliva contains proteins such as
albumin and Zn-alpha-2-glycoprotein that originate in blood plasma. There is a known
therapeutic value of bovine saliva. (Varshney et al., 1997, Therapeutic value of bovine
saliva in wound healing: a histomorphological study., Indian J. Biol. May 1997,
35(5):535-7). In one aspect, components of saliva could be useful, for example, in
toothpaste or mouthwash, or other preparations for oral mucosal administration.
[00166] Bronchial mucous contains mucins, alpha-amylase, basic proline-rich
polypeptides (PRPs), cystatins, statherin, EP-GP, lysozyme, beta-microseminoprotein,
and albumin. In one aspect, the disclosure provides a composition comprising a steric
specific binding molecule and a carrier matrix comprising two or more, three or more,
four or more of the components of saliva or bronchial secretions. In one aspect, the
composition with the carrier matrix is to be packaged in a dry format with the steric
specific binding molecule, such as anti-Group A Streptococcus polyclonal antibodies
prepared according to the disclosure. In one aspect, the dry formulation is

reconstituted, for example in a saline solution, and administered as a throat spray for
treatment of strep throat.
[00167] Other carrier matrices may be prepared to function in other use environments,
for example for aerosolized (inhaled), ocular, topical, or other preparations.
[00168] In a specific embodiment, the specific binding molecule and the carrier matrix
are derived from different species. In a further aspect, both the specific binding
molecule and the carrier matrix are derived from non-human species. In another aspect,
the specific binding molecule is derived from a non-mammalian animal. In another
aspect, the carrier matrix is derived from a non-human mammal.
FORMULATIONS AND COMPOSITIONS
[00169] In one embodiment antibodies are harvested from the plasma, serum, or blood,
colostrum, eggs, or other component of an inoculated animal or artificial production
system (such as cell culture), then purified or treated, and added to a carrier matrix such
as colostrum. The compositions allow are used as a delivery medium for, e.g., oral
administration of the antibody formulation. This approach may provide an effective
way of reliably scaling antibody production for formulation in this manner, so as to
control titer, consistency, and continuous availability, for commercial use. In one
embodiment antibodies are harvested from the eggs of an inoculated animal, and may
be purified or treated or retained in the egg material, and added to bovine colostrums.
[00170] There is a clear need for low cost and effective treatments for many
gastrointestinal pathogens, and orally administered antibodies are candidates for this
role. In addition to having demonstrated efficacy, orally administered antibodies are
typically non-immunogenic. They are considered typically well tolerated with no
adverse side effects reported and comparatively no different reactions than a
comparable ingested food product. Notably several products containing orally
administered antibody have received GRAS (Generally Recognized as Safe)
certification by the FDA.
[00171] One embodiment of this invention is a broad spectrum therapeutic or
prophylactic antitoxin formulation composed of an admixture of broad-spectrum
neutralizing antibodies, embedded within a carrier matrix, produced according to this
method, for the purposes of allowing for effective administration across a wide range of
unknown or undiagnosed conditions resulting in toxin mediated diarrhea.

[00172] One embodiment of this invention is a broad spectrum therapeutic or
prophylactic anti-pathogen formulation, embedded within a carrier matrix, containing
an admixture of broad-spectrum anti-pathogen antibodies produced according to this
method.
[00173] One embodiment of this invention is a broad spectrum therapeutic or
prophylactic anti-adhesin formulation embedded within a carrier matrix, containing an
admixture of broad-spectrum anti-adhesin antibodies produced according to this
method.
[00174] One embodiment of this invention is a broad spectrum therapeutic or
prophylactic formulation embedded within a carrier matrix, containing an admixture of
broad-spectrum antitoxin, anti-pathogen, and anti-adhesin antibodies produced
according to this method.
[00175] One important limitation of using natural food based products is that
preparations are limited to the results allowed by natural processes. The present
invention allows for the selective addition of levels of specific antibodies and general
immune factors (formulation) that are significantly higher than physiological levels that
can normally be achieved in nature. The present invention also allows for a weighting
of various factors in a manner so as to create greater specificity to targeted diseases,
pathogens, or substances.
[00176] In one embodiment, the formulation comprising the specific binding molecule
is a dry solid (egg powder) formulation. The powdered formulation is sealed in airtight
packets, optionally layered with an inert gas. The formulation can be stored for
extended periods of time at room temperature, under refrigeration, or frozen
temperatures. In other embodiments, the dried composition is formulated into capsules
or tablets for oral administration. In another embodiment, the formulation is
compressed into chewable tablets.
[00177] Another embodiment of the present invention relates to the pharmaceutical
acceptable diluents for formulating the composition, wherein said pharmaceutical
acceptable diluents are selected from the group consisting of a lactose, mannitol,
sorbitol, microcrystalline cellulose, sucrose, sodium citrate, dicalcium phosphate, or any
other ingredient of the similar nature alone or in a suitable combination thereof; binder
selected from the group consisting of gum tragacanth, gum acacia, methyl cellulose,

gelatin, polyvinyl pyrrolidone, starch or any other ingredient of the similar nature alone
or in a suitable combination thereof; excipients selected from the group consisting of
agar-agar, calcium carbonate, sodium carbonate, silicates, alginic acid, corn starch,
potato tapioca starch, primogel or any other ingredient of the similar nature alone or in a
suitable combination thereof; lubricants selected from the group consisting of a
magnesium stearate, calcium stearate or steorotes, talc, solid polyethylene glycols,
sodium lauryl sulfate or any other ingredient of the similar nature alone; glidants
selected from the group consisting of colloidal silicon dioxide or any other ingredient of
the similar nature alone or in a suitable combination thereof; a sweetening agent
selected from the group consisting of such as sucrose, saccharin or any other ingredient
of the similar nature alone or in a suitable combination thereof; a flavoring agent
selected from the group consisting of peppermint, methyl salicylate, orange flavor,
vanilla flavor, or any other pharmaceutically acceptable flavor alone or in a suitable
combination thereof; wetting agents selected from the group consisting of acetyl
alcohol, glyceryl monostearate or any other pharmaceutically acceptable wetting agent
alone or in a suitable combination thereof; absorbents selected from the group
consisting of kaolin, bentonite clay or any other pharmaceutically acceptable absorbents
alone or in a suitable combination thereof; retarding agents selected from the group
consisting of wax, paraffin, or any other pharmaceutically acceptable retarding agent
alone or in a suitable combination thereof.
[00178] In another aspect, the daily dose for the non-neonate human is standardized by
any method of quantifying the specific antibodies. In one aspect, the dose of the
composition is standardized by use of an ELISA to evaluate the concentration of
specific anti-antigen antibody in the formulation. In one aspect, one dose of the oral
composition effective to treat a pathogenic infection contains antigen-specific binding
molecule in an amount from about 0.0001 mg to 20 mg; from 0.001 mg to 15 mg; from
0.01 to 10 mg; from 0.05 to 5 mg; from 0.1 to 1 mg of mixed antigen specific binding
molecule.
[00179] The term "solid form" refers to a dried form of a specific binding molecule, or a
dried form of a carrier matrix, or a solid dosage form comprising both the dried specific
binding molecule and the carrier matrix as a powder, compressed tablet, troche, or
capsule. In one aspect, the solid dosage form is intended for oral administration. In one

aspect, the powder is a formulation for suspension. In one aspect, powdered dried
immune egg and powdered dried colostrum are packaged in an airtight packet.
Immediately prior to oral administration, the contents of the packet are suspended, or
dissolved, in about a liquid and administered orally.
[00180] In one aspect, the composition may also be provided in a liquid form for
administration.
[00181] In one aspect, one dose contains 1 g, 2 g, 3 g, 4 g, 5 g, 5 g, 6 g, or 7 g of dried
immune egg and 1 g, 2 g, 3 g, 4 g, 5 g, 5 g, 6 g, or 7 g dried bovine colostrum. In one
aspect, one dose of the dried dosage form contains 3g dried immune egg product and 4
g dried bovine colostrum. In one aspect, one dose of the dried dosage form contains 2 g
dried immune egg product and 4 g dried bovine colostrum. In one aspect, one dose of
the dried dosage form contains 4g dried immune egg product and 4 g dried bovine
colostrum. In another aspect, the contents of a single dose packet are dissolved in about
2 ounces of water and administered orally.
[00182] Formulations for oral use may also be prepared as troches, chewable tablets, or
as hard gelatin capsules wherein the active ingredient is mixed with an inert solid
diluent (e.g., potato starch, lactose, microcrystalline cellulose, calcium carbonate,
calcium phosphate or kaolin), or as soft gelatin capsules wherein the active ingredient is
mixed with water or an oil medium, for example, peanut oil, liquid paraffin, or olive oil.
Powders and granulates may be prepared using the ingredients mentioned above under
tablets and capsules in a conventional manner using, e.g., a mixer, a fluid bed apparatus
or a spray drying equipment.
[00183] In various embodiments, the formulations of the disclosure provide a variety of
advantages with respect to the prior art. In one aspect, the formulations of the
disclosure comprising antigen-specific IgY and a carrier matrix of bovine colostrum
have the advantage of being prepared in a rapid time period of within about 6 weeks,
once the antigens of interest are identified. This allows easy reproducibility and
standardization of the chicken vaccination protocol. In one specific aspect, different
flocks of chickens are vaccinated with a single, mixed antigen preparation each, and
then combined for a broad spectrum composition for the treatment of a pathogenic
infection. In one specific aspect, three flocks of chickens are vaccinated with separate

mixed antigen preparations then pooled to prepare a broad-spectrum composition for
the treatment of undifferentiated diarrhea without knowledge of the causative microbial
pathogens. This method has the advantage that the mix of antigen-specific antibodies in
the composition can be tailored for a particular outbreak, region, or season, if desired.
Finally, in embodiments, the specific binding molecule need not be separated from the
whole dried egg for rapid preparation and long term storage.
[00184] In another aspect, the compositions of the disclosure are effective for oral
administration in the treatment of a pathogenic infection in non-neonates. The
gastrointestinal tract of the non-neonate is very acidic and less absorptive than the
neonate, as described herein. In the examples of the disclosure, the compositions were
effective for treating undifferentiated diarrhea in non-neonatal children of 6 months to 5
years of age. In another aspect, the compositions of the disclosure are effective to treat
or prevent traveler's diarrhea in adults. The carrier matrix is a protective and reactive
matrix for combination with the antigen-specific binding molecules. In another aspect,
the compositions of the disclosure are provided in a powdered, solid form for
suspension immediately prior to administration. In one aspect, the suspended, or
reconstituted, dosage form has the advantage of being very palatable to infants and
children, even when suffering from the symptoms of a pathogenic infection. This has
the advantage that the full dose is easily administered and ingested by the subject
suffering from the pathogenic infection.
[00185] In another aspect, the compositions of the invention can be used for
administering broad-spectrum passive immunity in either treatment, or prophylaxis of
pathogenic infection. In one aspect, a low level of immunization of chickens can be
sufficient to prepare a composition with an effective amount of anti-antigen specific
binding molecule to result in an effective, broad-spectrum formulation when
administered with a carrier matrix.
TREATMENT OR PROPHYLAXIS OF PATHOGENIC INFECTION
[00186] The compositions of the disclosure comprise a specific binding protein
embedded within a carrier matrix. The compositions can be administered in any
method suitable to their particular immunogenic or biologically or immunologically
reactive characteristics, including oral, intravenous, buccal, nasal, mucosal, dermal or

                                                " I
other method, within an appropriate carrier matrix. A specific embodiment involves the
oral administration of the composition of the disclosure.
[00187] In various embodiments, the composition is administered as a prophylactic or
therapeutic composition. In various aspects, the composition includes a
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. In various aspects, the composition does not
include a polymer, copolymer, liposome, hydrogel, or fibrin. In various aspects, the
composition does not include microspheres or microcapsules. In various aspects, the
composition does not include an immunogen or antigen. The composition of the
invention can be administered via oral delivery, nasal deliver, ophthalmic delivery,
ocular delivery, mucosal delivery, or a combination thereof.
[00188] One embodiment of this invention uses oral administration. It has been
demonstrated in both human and animal systems that oral (ingested) administration of
antibodies, immunoglobulins, and other biological immune factors can have measurable
effects on the course, severity and duration on diseases of, in, associated with, or
influenced by, the gastrointestinal system.
[00189] The admixture of broad-spectrum antibodies is embedded in a within a carrier
matrix, such as for example colostrums for oral administration. Colostrum serves to
provide synergistic protective and efficacious attributes to the antibody formulation.
Any combination of antibodies can be used in within a carrier, including but not limited
to a combination of anti-pathogen, anti-toxin, and anti-adhesin antibodies.
[00190] In one aspect, the compositions of the disclosure are used to treat patients
suffering from various pathogenic infections. The compositions and formulations for
oral administration can be administered once, twice, three times, or four times a day for
two, three, four, five, six, seven, 8, 9, 10, 11, or 12 consecutive days for the treatment of
a pathogenic infection. In one aspect, the composition is administered twice per day for
five days for the treatment of a pathogenic infection. In another specific aspect, the
composition is administered once per day for three consecutive days for the effective
treatment of undifferentiated diarrhea in non-neonatal children, or in the treatment of
traveler's diarrhea in non-neonatal children or adults. In another aspect, the
composition may be regularly administered for the prophylaxis of a pathogenic
infection.

[00191] In the case of a composition for the treatment of a pathogenic infection of a
mucosal membrane by topical administration to a mucosal membrane, the composition
can be administered two to six times per day for a period of three to 12 days.
[00192] In a preferred embodiment, the disclosure provides a composition effective for
treating undifferentiated diarrhea in non-neonate humans. The composition takes
advantage of an effective polyclonal antibody production strategy (chicken
innoculation, with antibody harvesting through eggs) to generate high specificity
antibodies targeted to several of the causes of diarrhea pathology. In a specific
embodiment, the composition comprises specific polyclonal antibodies in a carrier
matrix that is commercial bovine colostrum.
[00193] In a preferred embodiment, the disclosure provides an economical
composition for the effective treatment of undifferentiated pediatric diarrhea. The
composition comprises a mixture of polyclonal antibodies, primarily IgY, specific for
  . coli, Salmonella spp., rotavirus, gram negative bacteria, toxins produced by
pathogens, and adhesins that enable pathogen attachment and colonization in the
gastrointestinal tract.
[00194] In a specific aspect, the composition comprises an equivalent weight amount
of dried immune egg product from each of three flocks inoculated with different
antigens or different mixed antigen preparations is co-packaged with a specific weight
amount of commercial dried non-hyperimmune bovine colostrum. In one aspect, 0.5 to
3 g. 0.7 to 2.0 g, 1.0 g, 1.3 g, or 1.5 g of dried immune egg product from each flock is
added to a single dose packet. Preferably either 1.0 g or 1.3 g each immune egg product
is added to a one dose packet. In another aspect, I to 5 g, 2 g to 4 g, 1.5 g, 2.0 g, 2.5 g,
3.0 g, 3.5 g, 4.0 g, 4.5 g or 5 g dried colostrum is added to the same packet.
[00195] Prior to use, the contents of the packet, or sachet, are mixed into
approximately 2 ounces of purified water, or some other oral liquid. The entire
reconstituted formulation is administered orally to the subject. The composition can be
administered one to four times per day for two to ten days. In a specific embodiment,
the composition is administered once per day for 3 consecutive days. The disclosure
provides a method of treating undifferentiated pediatric diarrhea, by administration of
the composition of the disclosure once per day for two, three or four days.

[00196] In one aspect, the composition of the disclosure is administered as an adjunct
therapy to antibiotic treatment. In this aspect, the composition may be administered
once per day for the first three days of treatment. In another aspect, the composition of
the disclosure is administered with oral rehydration solution (ORS). In another aspect,
the composition of the disclosure is co-administered with an oral zinc formulation. In
another aspect, the composition of the disclosure is administered as an adjunct to
antibiotic treatment to prevent overgrowth of a particular pathogenic organism that is
resistant to the antibiotic. As described in detail in the examples, the composition and
method is effective to rapidly resolve the symptoms of undifferentiated pediatric
diarrhea, resulting in significantly decreased stool volume, stool frequency and duration
of diarrhea, as well as significantly improved physician reported well-being.
[00197] In one alternative embodiment, the compositions of the disclosure are used to
treat traveler's diarrhea. The onset of TD usually occurs within the first week of travel
but may occur at any time while traveling, and even after returning home. The most
important determinant of risk is the traveler's destination. High-risk destinations are the
developing countries of Latin America, Africa, the Middle East, and Asia. Persons at
particular high-risk include young adults, immunosuppressed persons, persons with
inflammatory-bowel disease or diabetes, and persons taking H-2 blockers or antacids.
Most TD cases begin abruptly. The illness usually results in increased frequency,
volume, and weight of stool. Altered stool consistency also is common. Typically, a
traveler experiences four to five loose or watery bowel movements each day. Other
commonly associated symptoms are nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal cramping,
bloating, fever, urgency, and malaise.
[00198] Infectious agents are the primary cause of TD. Bacterial enteropathogens
cause approximately 80% of TD cases. The most common causative agent isolated in
countries surveyed has been enterotoxigenic Escherichiacoli (ETEC). ETEC produce
watery diarrhea with associated cramps and low-grade or no fever. Besides ETEC and
other bacterial pathogens, a variety of viral and parasitic enteric pathogens also are
potential causative agents.
[00199] In one aspect, the composition of the disclosure is administered to the subject
once per day for three consecutive days as an alternative or adjunct to antibiotic
treatment of traveler's diarrhea. Limited field study evidence suggests improvement in

diarrheal symptoms within 24 or 48 hours of the first dose. Alternatively, two doses per
day of the composition of the disclosure are administered on day 1, followed by a single
dose on days 2 and 3.      In one aspect, the composition of the disclosure is administered
on an alternate daily or weekly schedule, or on a reduced dosage schedule to for
prophylaxis of traveler's diarrhea.
[00200] In another alternative embodiment, the compositions of the disclosure are used
to as a "prebiotic" for gastrointestinal flora management of a subject, for example, prior
to administration of a probiotic. As used herein, the term "prebiotic" refers to a
composition that allows specific changes, both in the composition and/or the activity of
the gastrointestinal microflora that confers benefits upon the subject's well-being and
health. In one aspect, the composition is useful to manage gastrointestinal flora so as to
reduce or eliminate one or more undesirable strains of bacteria. In one aspect, the anti
antigenic immunoglobulin composition is tailored to manage gastrointestinal flora so as
to reduce or eliminate one or more undesirable strains of bacteria. In another aspect, the
compositions are used as an adjunct to traditional prebiotics. In a further aspect, the
composition of the disclosure further comprises a soluble fiber. In a further aspect the
composition is used alone for flora management.
[00201] In another aspect, the disclosure provides a method of gastrointestinal flora
management in a subject comprising the steps of administering the composition of the
disclosure to reduce or eliminate one or more undesirable strains of bacteria, followed
by administering a probiotic to introduce one or more desirable strains of bacteria. In
another aspect, the composition of the disclosure is administered as an adjunct to
antibiotic treatment to prevent overgrowth of a particular pathogenic organism that is
resistant to the antibiotic.
EXAMPLE 1. Compositions for the Treatment of Diarrhea
[00202] Diarrhea is a symptom of a broad range of causes including bacterial, viral,
protozoal and parasitic infections. Bacterial diarrhea is induced by multiple organisms,
including various forms of Escherichiacoli, Salmonella, Vibrio cholerae and
parahemolyticus,Shigella, Campylobacter, Yersinia and others. Viral pediatric diarrhea
is often caused by Rotavirus, but also may be caused by several other viruses.
[00203] There are known to be multiple causative organisms in diarrhea. These
causative organisms can be organized into common clusters that produce structurally

related toxins, to which a series of broad-spectrum neutralizing antibodies can be
created that, when admixed into a formulation with clinically effective titers, can be
used as a broad-spectrum organism-independent therapeutic intervention for toxin
mediated diarrhea.
[00204] Briefly, antibodies specific to causative organisms of diarrhea are generated
by inoculation of chickens with antigen. Immune eggs are collected and whole egg is
pasteurized and spray dried to obtain a powderized form. Commercial bovine
colostrum is mixed in a powderized form. The two powders are added sequentially to
a single dose packet and sealed, and distributed in dried form for an oral formulation.
Before administration, the powdered oral formulation is mixed with a small quantity of
water prior to oral consumption.
[00205] This treatment confers passive immunity to patients, as demonstrated in the
Examples herein. The nature of the treatment makes the associated risk factors
comparable to that of eating food from the source where the antibodies were harvested
(e.g., risk factors would be similar to that of eating an egg and a glass of milk). This is
an effective treatment with less toxicity than the currently available alternative
medicines.
[00206] Example 1A. Chickens were individually inoculated with purified antigens
derived from 5 . coli strains: four ATCC strains, containing E coli adherence pili
antigens F41, 97P, F19 and K99, and one wild type . coli strain derived from milk.
Each chicken was inoculated with only one antigen. Chickens were inoculated once per
week for three weeks. Freund's adjuvant was employed for the first inoculation,
followed by Freund's incomplete adjuvant for the second and third inoculations. Two
shots, left and right breast were used per inoculation. Eggs were housed separately;
eggs were collected, flash pasteurized and spray dried. Each of the five antibody
preparations were mixed in equal parts. The dried egg powder anti E. coli antibody
preparation was stored frozen for about 2 years.
[00207] A second flock of chickens was inoculated with a mixed antigen preparation
containing rotavirus, coronavirus and E. coli antigens. The same inoculation, collection
and egg processing protocols were employed as above. The dried egg powder anti
scours antibody preparation was stored frozen for 1.5 years. ELISA was used to
characterize the antibody preparations.

[00208] One gram each of the dried anti-E. coli antibody preparation and the dried
anti-scours antibody preparation were added with 3 grams or 4 grams of commercial
dried full-fat bovine colostrum in a single dose packet.
[00209] Example 1B. Three flocks of chickens were individually inoculated with one
each of different mixerd antigen preparations: a first antigen preparation containing
rotavirus (serotypes G6 and G10), coronavirus, enterotoxigenic E. coli stains with K99
pili adherence factor, and Clostridium perfringens type C toxoid with adjuvant); a
second preparation containing enterotoxigenic strains of E. coli having K99, K88, 987P
or F41 adherence factors); and a third mixed antigen preparation containing various E.
coli endotoxin ; with adjuvant). Each of three flocks only received a single mixed
antigen preparation. Eggs were collected, cleaned, broken, pasteurized and spray dried
or thermal dried to create three dried immune egg products. Dried egg product was
optionally evaluated by ELISA for specific IgY activity. An equal weight of each of
the three dried immune egg products was combined with 3 g or 4 g of dried colostrum
in a single dose packet. Either 2 g, 3 g, or 4 g of combined weight of dried immune egg
product was employed per single dose packet, as described below. In one aspect, the
commercial dried colostrum did not exhibit specific activity toward the antigens of the
vaccines.
[00210] Example IC. Immunization of chickens for IgY Production.
[00211] The following immunization protocol was adapted from a Gallus Immunotech,
Inc. protocol and can be utilized for generation of IgY polyclonal antibodies. A few
eggs are optionally collected prior to immunization to serve as a baseline control. If a
mixed antigen preparation for cattle or hogs is employed, it is diluted at 1:2, 1:4, 1:8, or
1:16 prior to administration. On day 0, chickens are injected with between 0.02 and 0.5
mg antigen with Freund's complete adjuvant. Injections can be either subcutaneous or
intramuscularly into the breast tissue of the hen at multiple sites. The total volume of
antigen/adjuvant mixture can be about mL with adjuvant from one-half to two-thirds
of the volume. Immunizations are repeated, typically, on days 14, 21 and 28, using
Freund's incomplete adjuvant, with about half the initial amount of antigen. Typically,
specific antibody can be detected at about day 30 in eggs. For prolonged antibody
production, hens are boosted every couple of months. Eggs can be stored in cold
storage prior to processing and/or purification of IgY. In one aspect, eggs can be held

in cold storage for up to one month, or up to two months, prior to processing or
purification. In another aspect, IgY can be generated in a similar fashion in duck,
goose, ostrich, quail, or turkey eggs, with use of appropriate amounts of antigen.
EXAMPLE 2. Ingested Antibody Treatment for Clostridium difficile
[00212] In one embodiment, the invention methods and compositions are used to treat
Clostridium difficile (C. difficile), a bacterium that is naturally present in most people.
The population levels of C. difficile are kept under control by the other natural flora of
the bowel. Patients often develop C. difficile infections when antibiotics administered
for another medical condition deplete the natural flora of the bowel, allowing C. difficile
populations to multiply unchecked. While many strains of C. difficile can be treated by
specialized antibiotics an increasingly large number of C. difficile strains are resistant to
antibiotic treatment. This leads to a lengthy and difficult recovery for patients, and may
even become life-threatening in certain circumstances. A process neutralizing C.
difficile populations with an ingested antibody that confers passive immunity is capable
of controlling C. difficile population levels to allow a natural bowel flora balance to be
restored.
[00213] As is the case in anti-diarrhea formulations caused by rotavirus and gram
negative bacteria, an antibody embedded in a carrier matrix formulated specifically to
bind to C. difficile or its toxins is an effective therapeutic approach. This formulation
can be used to either treat an ongoing infection, or to prevent such an infection from
occurring. Therefore, the treatment can be administered alone, or concurrently with an
antibiotic. This treatment not only benefits patients recovering from a C. difficile
episode, but can be administered to patients at high risk of developing C. difficile as a
prophylactic.
[00214] The antibodies that neutralize C. difficile are ingested in a carrier matrix (a
mixture of proteins and enzymes that are intended to "activate" the antibody in the
bowel, as well as provide useful secondary immunity, protection or nutrition). In one
embodiment, the antibodies are produced by injecting, or inoculating, an animal with an
antigen, or a combination of antigens, which may or may not be contained in a mixed
antigen preparation, (potentially combined with an adjuvant to elicit a stronger immune
response).

[00215]    In one aspect, the antigen is obtained from, or derived from, a C. difficile
antigen or toxin. In another aspect, the combination of antigens contains one of more
antigens or toxins derived from C. dijjicile, and one or more additional viral antigens.
In another aspect, the combination of antigens contains one or more antigens or toxins
derived from C. difficile, and one or more additional bacterial antigens or toxins. In
another aspect, the combination of antigens contains one or more antigens derived from
C. difficile, and one or more additional protozoal antigens. In another aspect, the
combination of antigens contains one or more antigens derived from C. difficile, and
one or more additional fungal antigens.
[00216]    The antibodies are then either obtained from, isolated from, or derived from,
an animal product, such as milk, eggs, or colostrum from the animal or harvested
directly from, the animal, e.g. serum, plasma. In a particular aspect, hens are
inoculated with the antigen, combination of antigens, or vaccine, and the antibodies are
obtained from whole eggs, or egg yolks, or derived from, or purified from whole eggs
or egg yolks of the inoculated chickens. In another aspect, the antibodies are
polyclonal antibodies.
[00217] This composition is intended to help treat C. difficile infections, or be a
prophylactic against C. difficile infection. For example, the substance is comprised of
antibodies targeted specifically to C. difficile, embedded within a carrier matrix (for
example, colostrum). After harvesting, the antibodies may be powderized. The carrier
matrix may also be powderized. The two powders may then be mixed thoroughly, or
added separately to a single dose packet, or vial, and distributed in dried form. In a
preferred method of administration, the substance will be administered orally, by
ingestion. To consume, the powdered substance will be mixed with a small quantity of
a liquid, such as water, milk, juice, or electrolyte solution, immediately prior to
consumption, and will be taken as directed by a physician. Other methods of delivery
are also contemplated.
[00218] Current treatment for C. difficile infection focuses on antibiotic therapy.
However, in cases where strong antibiotics were the cause of infection, and in cases
where resistance to antibiotics has been developed, few alternative treatments are
currently available. The present embodiment seeks to neutralize C. difficile by utilizing
natural immune mechanisms, rather than toxic antibiotics. It has the advantage of

allowing the growth of naturally occurring flora in the bowel while reducing C. difficile
population levels.
[00219] The combination of antibodies embedded within a carrier matrix to enhance
the effectiveness of the antibodies is not currently used by any C. difficile disease
treatment. The invention methods confer passive immunity to patients. The nature of
the treatment makes the associated risk factors comparable to that of eating food from
the source where the antibodies were harvested (e.g., risk factors would be similar to
that of eating an egg and a glass of milk). This is an effective treatment with less
toxicity than the currently available alternative medicines.
[00220] In one aspect, selected antibodies are obtained, purified and isolated and
prepared in a powderized form. In another aspect, the selected antibodies are not
purified, or isolated, but processed as a whole product. For example, the contents of the
whole egg obtained from the inoculated chicken is processed, e.g. pasteurized, and
prepared in a powderized form, without additional purification steps. An activating
enzyme/protein mixture (for example, including colostrum) is also prepared in a
powderized form. The two powders are mixed thoroughly and distributed in dried form
for an oral formulation. Before administration, the powdered oral formulation is mixed
with a small quantity of water prior to consumption.
[00221] This treatment confers passive immunity to patients. The nature of the
treatment makes the associated risk factors comparable to that of eating food from the
source where the antibodies were harvested (e.g., risk factors would be similar to that of
eating an egg and a glass of milk). This is an effective treatment with less toxicity than
the currently available alternative medicines.
EXAMPLE 3. Ingested Antibody Treatment for Helicobacter avlori
[00222] Helicobacterpylori(H. pylori) is a gram-negative bacterium which can
inhabit areas of the stomach. It is generally believed that H. pylori is associated
duodenal and gastric ulcers and possibly stomach cancer. H. pylori can escape the
acidic environment of the stomach lumen by burrowing into the mucus layer of the
epithelial cell surface which has a more neutral pH environment. H. pylori can produce
adhesins for binding to membrane associated lipids or carbohydrates of epithelial cells.
Colonization of H. pylori inside areas of the stomach can results in chronic gastritis, a

long-lasting inflammation of the stomach. A major cause of peptic ulcer is H. pylori
infection.
[00223] Selected antibodies against Helicobacterpyloriare obtained and prepared in a
powderized form. An activating enzyme/protein mixture (for example, including
colostrum) is also prepared in a powderized form. The two powders are mixed
thoroughly, or added separately to single dose packets or vials, and distributed in dried
form for an oral formulation. Before administration, the powdered oral formulation is
mixed with a small quantity of water prior to consumption.
This treatment confers passive immunity to patients. The nature of the treatment makes
the associated risk factors comparable to that of eating food from the source where the
antibodies were harvested (e.g., risk factors would be similar to that of eating an egg
and a glass of milk). This is an effective treatment with less toxicity than the currently
available alternative medicines.
EXAMPLE 4. Clinical Studies -Efficacy in Undifferentiated Diarrhea
[00224] Effective broad-spectrum treatment of diarrhea is a significant challenge due
to the wide range of causative organisms, the limited availability of diagnostic testing
for directing treatment regimes. Current standard intervention for cases of severe
diarrhea includes ubiquitous administration of antibiotics and oral rehydration salts
(ORS). However, this approach has shown limited effectiveness, and has promoted the
development of antibiotic resistant bacteria strains.
[00225] Example 4A. Field study (trial)s 1 and 2.
[00226] Clinical studies were performed to evaluate the tolerability and efficacy of the
formulation of Example 1A in treating, or accelerating the resolution of undifferentiated
diarrhea. A first open, single-center, non-comparative study enrolled a total of 63
pediatric patients with pediatric diarrhea of both genders between six months and five
years of age. The study compared clinical outcomes of Test Group A, "Trial 1",
receiving the oral formulation of Example 1A, administered with antibiotic and ORS, to
a Control Group B, receiving only antibiotic and ORS. A second Test Group AA,
"Trial 2", enrolled 33 patients in a follow up study to test the formulation of Example
1A under different seasonal conditions.
[00227] All participating pediatric patients presented a "serious" or "severe" diarrhea
profile (level 4 or 5) on a 5 point scale (see Table 1), as assessed by attending

                                            J /
physician. No diagnostic differentiation was made as to causative agent or etiology of
the pediatric diarrhea. Patients with rice water stool of bloody stool were excluded.
Additionally, patients with known allergies to milk, chicken, or egg products were
excluded.
 Table 1. The 5-point scale
                               Level                          Level5
 Stool Frequency               1-2 per day                     10 or more per day
 Stool Consistency             1 = normal                     5 = fully liquid
 Physician Assessed Well-      1 = normal                     5 = severe
 being                                                        (typically inpatient)
[00228] Enrolled children (n=63) were divided into two groups, an experimental group
Study 1,"Group A" (34 enrolled children; 29 completing trial), negative control "Group
B", (29 enrolled children; 28 completing trial), and Study 2 "Group AA"( 31 enrolled).
A second control group "Group BB" receiving antibiotic and ORS was used as a
negative control concurrently with the Group AA, however, the results are omitted from
the figures.
[00229] Each test group received 2 g combined egg powder and 4 g colostrum, mixed
in water, administered orally once per day for three consecutive days. Each group was
observed and the data are collected for five days. Group A received the composition
from Example 1 in addition to a standard regiment of antibiotics and oral rehydration
supplements (ORS), as determined by the attending pediatrician. Group B is treated
with a standard regimen of antibiotics and ORS. A six month window of time between
Study 1 and Study 2 was allowed ellapse in order to test seasonality. Both trials were
conducted in the same study center. In each group, antibiotic and ORS prescriptions
were determined on a case-by-case basis by the attending pediatrician (Table 2).
Table 2. Study Groups with Numbers of Cases Completed

Group       Therapy             Completed      Treatment Period              Observation
            administered
A           Composition         29             Composition from              5 days
            from Example 1                     Example 1: days 1-4
            + antibiotic +                     Antibiotic + ORS: days
            ORS                                1-6
AA          Composition         31             Composition from              5 days
            from Example 1                     Example 1: days 1-3
            + Antibiotic +                     Antibiotic + ORS: days
            ORS                                1-6
B           Antibiotic+ORS      28             Antibiotic + ORS: days        5      days
                                               1-5
[00230] The composition from Example 1A was packaged in 5 gram powder single
dose sachets. The composition was administered orally, with one packet re-suspended
in approximately 2 ounces of drinking water. Patients were required to drink the entire
suspension in one setting, immediately after re-suspension was complete, and this
protocol was followed in all cases.
[00231] Parameters covered in this example, as measured for each patient, included
stool frequency, stool consistency, and physician assessed well-being. Stool frequency
is the guardian or hospital reported number of diarrheal bowel movements per 24 hour
period. Stool consistency is a 1-5 scale of consistency with 1 indicating normal and 5
indicating liquid. Physician assessed well-being is a 1-5 scale of overall condition with
1 indicating normal parameters for a healthy child and 5 indicating a severely ill child.
[00232] Physicians participating in the trial were asked to provide their experience of
the typically patient progression, as measured by the three parameters described, over
the course of six days. The reported values were aggregated into a single expected
patient progression baseline for each parameter. Patients were evaluated both in terms
of improvement relative to expected outcomes based on doctor experience, and against
the concurrent negative controls.

[00233] Data analysis was conducted with MS Excel and Matlab. Statistical
significance was computed by a Chi-square test with p-value of <0.05 considered
significant. Results are shown in Figures 1 to 3.
[00234] Dramatic improvements in patients receiving the composition from Example
1A were observed within 24 hours of the initial dose administration. Within 48 hours
after initial dose administration patients were generally stabilized at normal or near
normal levels.
[00235] As shown in Figure 1, average number of diarrheal bowel movements in a 24
hour period decreased from 9 to 2 in Group A (Trial 1) after the initial dose of the
composition from Example 1. Group AA (Trial 2) exhibited a similar reduction from 10
to 3. In contrast, average number of episodes in Group B (Negative control) decreased
from 11 to 10 in the same time period. The average number of episodes in Groups A
and AA (Trials 1 and 2) remained constant at 2 from day 3 onward, while Group B
diminished gradually eventually exhibiting 6 episodes per 24 hours by day five. In
Group A, within 24 hours of the treatment with the composition from Example 1, stool
frequency rates returned to near normal levels, 2.32  2.48, an over 86% reduction in
the duration of gastroenteric symptoms when compared to the control population
(P<0.001). Within 48 hours stool frequency rates improve to 2.14  2.19. In Group
AA, frequency rates showed similar stabilization rates, improving to 2.56 +/-0.68
within 24 hours and 2.00 +/- 0.45 within 48 hours, a marked improvement compared to
control (P<0.001)
[00236] As shown in Figure 2, iinitial stool consistency was liquid in all patients.
Group A and Group AA stool consistency improved to near-normal levels in 24 hours,
after the first dose of the composition, after the first dose of the composition from
Example 1. Control Group B consistency improved but was still liquid in 24 hours, with
symptoms not fully resolving the entire observation period. Group A obtained normal
stool consistency in 48 hours and for the remainder of the study, while Group B, by day
3, improved to mostly liquid. Group B eventually reached near-normal levels of stool
consistency by day 6, while Group A stool consistency remained normal throughout
days 3-6.
[00237] Surprisingly, within 24 hours of the treatment with the composition from
Example 1A, stool consistency rates returned to mild levels, 2.05  1.02 for Group A

and 1.96 +/- 0.61 for Group AA, an over 86% reduction in the duration of gastroenteric
symptoms when compared to the control population (P<0.001). Within 48 hours,
Group A stool consistency dropped further to near normal levels 1.41  0.9, and Group
AA levels were 1.17 +/- 0.37.
[00238] As shown in Figure 3, all patients enrolled in the study were rated as severely
ill by attending physicians, up to and including serious dehydration, vomiting and low
responsiveness. Patients in Group A and Group AA improved significantly overnight
(P<0.00 1), after the first dose of the composition from Example 1, to an average well
being assessment level of approximately two. At 24 hours, Group B patients remained
severely ill. Group A and Group AA patients, at 48 hours, improved to near normal and
continued to improve on day three obtaining normal condition, while Group B patients
improved but remained very ill. Throughout days 4-6, patients in Group A remain fully
recovered while patients in Group B improved in a linear manner; however they
remained moderately ill at the end of the study.
[00239] Overall physician reported well-being retuned to near healthy level within one
day, with Group A dropping from an initial value of 4.46  0.5 1 to 1.9  0.9, a level
considered within normal parameters for this population. Group AA displayed similar
results, falling from an initial level of 4.3 +/- 0.46 to 2.03 +/-0.49. This collectively
represents an 86% reduction in the duration of illness when compared the control
population (p<0.001). Within 48 hours, physician reported well-being improved further
to 1.26  0.83 in Group A and 1.4 +/- 0.49 for Group AA.
[00240] A check to confirm the normal distribution of trial cases against expected
prevalence of Rotavirus was made within Group A (Trial 1), independent of the primary
trial evaluation. Stool samples were collected for 26 of the 29 experimental patients in
Group A and 24 of the 31 patients from Group AA, and were tested at an independent
reference lab using an established commercial agglutination assay (Slidex Rota-kit,
bioMerieux, France). Seven of the 26 patients sampled in Group A test positive for
Rotavirus (27% of the tested population). This pediatric Rotavirus infection prevalence
is in line with expected results for the season and the degree of severity of diarrhea
cases admitted to the study. Four of the 24 tested positive in Group AA (17% of the
tested population). The prevalence of rotavirus fro Group AA was somewhat lower
than expected. Therefore, the composition of Example 1A was deemed effective as

                                             U1
administered to treat undifferentiated diarrhea, including that caused by rotavirus
infection.
[00241] To further determine the similarity of response to the composition from
Example 1 between the Rotavirus positive group (RV) and the non-Rotavirus positive
group (Non-RV), the Pearson's Product-Moment Correlation Coefficient was used
(represented as "R), the strength of which is represented in the range -1 to 1.
Calculation of R used the average of the Non-RV and RV group for each time point,
with calculation of the R-value from the average value of each group over the 6 days.
[00242] The R value of the RV group's association with the Non-RV group for the
Physician Assessed Well-being dataset is 0.99029, showing a very strong linear
dependence and covariance between the two groups. The behaviors of Non-RV and RV
patients are strongly predictive of each other, and showed very similar responses to the
treatment over the six day treatment and observation period. These results confirm the
efficacy of the composition from Example 1 in Rotavirus mediated diarrhea cases
(Table 3).
              Table 3. RV/Non-RV Average Values
              Day                   RV                       Non-RV
              1                      4.71                    4.38
             2                       1.71                    1.95
              3                      1.33                    1.24
             4                       1.28                    1
              5                      1.14                    1
              6                      1                       1
[00243] Of the 96 patients enrolled in the studies, 88 completed the full six day study
period. Four patients were withdrawn from Group A, and two from Group AA by the
physician when it was determined that their enteritis was co-morbid with, or the result

of, other conditions; as shown in Table 4. One patient from Group A was lost to the trial
when his guardian decided that the patient was well enough to withdraw after the
second dose of the composition from Example 1. And, one patient was withdrawn from
Group B due to record keeping error (Table 4).
Table 4. Patients Withdrawn from Study
Patient #             Group                 Reason                     Withdrawn by
A 12                  Experimental (A)      Measles                    Study doctor
A 19                  Experimental (A)      Meningitis                 1
A26                   Experimental (A)      Patient deemed well        Guardian
A28                   Experimental (A)      Measles                    Study doctor
A33                   Experimental (A)      Meningitis                 Study doctor
B08                   Control (B)           Record keeping error       Study doctor
[00244] These results suggest that the composition from Example 1 may provide a safe
and effective treatment for undifferentiated pediatric diarrhea. Reducing the duration
and severity of diarrhea will prevent a significant amount of morbidity and mortality
associated with pediatric diarrhea and may also help prevent diarrhea-associated co
morbidities from developing in pediatric patients.
[00245] After one day of the treatment with the composition from Example 1,
pediatricians report substantial improvement in overall well-being in 100% of the
patients completing the trial. Surprisingly, significant reduction in both the duration
and severity of illness provided an 86% reduction in length of diarrhea episode after
two days of the treatment with the composition from Example 1. Independent Rotavirus
testing confirmed efficacy of the composition from Example 1A in these cases.
[00246] The composition from Example 1A was shown to be highly effective in the
treatment of undifferentiated diarrhea, greatly reducing the length and severity of illness
when compared to conventional therapies alone. The composition from Example 1A is
well-tolerated with no adverse side-effects reported. The results of this study represent

an important and robust improvement in the treatment of pediatric diarrhea within
demanding field environments. These results provide an opportunity for additionally
investigation of the mechanisms and biochemistry by which the composition of the
invention protects patients from the most severe symptoms of undifferentiated diarrhea.
[00247] Example 4B. Field study (trial) 3.
[00248] A third study trial was conducted with 140 treated patients and 30 negative
control patients enrolled in Trial 3. The daily dose of the composition in the treated
arm contained either 2 g total of equal portions of dried whole egg from each of three
flocks, each inoculated separately with one commercial scours or mastitis vaccine; and
4 grams of dried bovine colostrum (ES204A; MS204A); or 3 grams of equal portions
by weight of dried whole egg from each of three flocks, each inoculated separately with
one commercial scours or mastitis vaccine and four grams of dried bovine colostrum
(MS304A). In addition, egg was processed either by spray drying (S) or thermal
drying (T). The flocks were housed at two different geographic locations within the
United States (M) or (E).
[00249] Trial 3 was conducted as described above; patients were treated with the
compositions once per day, for three consecutive days. Average results for Trial 3
compared to Trials 1 and 2 are shown in FIGS. 4-9. A small arm of Trial 3 with 15
patients was treated with 2 g dried egg and 4 g colostrum once per day for two days and
exhibited significant improvement at days one and two in each measured parameter.
This group exhibited a slight average relapse effect in symptom scoring in physician
reported well-being on day 4, stool consistency on days 3 and 4 (ES204B). However,
these values were still significantly improved compared to the negative control group.
[00250]     These results show that a solid formulation for suspension comprising
specific binding molecules which are antigen-specific IgY antibodies in whole dried
egg and a carrier matrix, which is non-immune dried bovine colostrum is economical
and effective. The matrix of the disclosure, dried bovine colostrum, is easily
commercially available and can provide higher levels of various matrix components
than milk. This is in contrast to, for example, the prior art teachings of Larrson et al,
US 2010/0233162. Larsson provides a method for local administration of isolated
chicken yolk immune globulins (IgY) in human breast milk to treat and prevent fungal
infections. At the very least, the use of human breast milk makes the Larsson

composition less economical and difficult to rapidly produce and store. Further, after
three days of treatment, the compositions of the present disclosure are shown to
significantly decrease the duration of undifferentiated diarrhea in non-neonatal babies
and children; where the conditions of the gastrointestinal tract are harsher than in the
neonate. This is in contrast to Larsson et al., US 2006/0134101, which provides a
method for the use of avian antibodies for treatment and prophylaxis of enteric
infections in newborn infants. This is also contrast to, Sarker et al., 2001, who reported
a clinical trial of hyperimmunized chicken egg yolk immunoglobulin in non-neonate
children with rotavirus diarrhea that showed little or no difference in the duration of
diarrhea. (Sarker et al., 2001, Randomized, placebo-controlled, clinical trial of
hyperimmunized chicken egg yolk immunoglobulin in children with rotavirus diarrhea.
J. Pediatr. Gastroenterol Nutr. 32: 19-25).
[00251] In addition, the present compositions utilize dried whole egg containing
antigen-specific IgY with a protective and reactive carrier matrix such as bovine
colostrum to both (1) protect the antibodies during oral administration, and (2) to
further activate passive immunity as described. This is in contrast to Lee et al., US
2003/0185856, which provides a method for the production of egg containing anti
pathogenic bacteria specific IgY and compositions in the form of yogurt or ice cream
containing the IgY; however, a protective and reactive carrier matrix is not described.
Yogurt and ice cream generally do not have a high enough concentration of the matrix
components present in the matrix derived from colostrum.
[00252] Unlike an immunoregulatory response, the effects of administration of the
composition could generally be observed within 6-12 hours of the first administration.
The compositions of the disclosure are effective without reliance on the subject's
immune response.
EXAMPLE 5. Clinical Study -Unexpected Efficacy in Typhoid Fever
[00253] Evidence for the efficacy of the claimed composition was provided through an
unplanned and unexpected demonstration of clinical efficacy caused by an unknown
prior inoculation.
[00254] During one field study in India a small number of children were brought
forward for treatment who had been clinically diagnosed with "Typhoid Fever".

Typhoid fever is an infection most commonly caused by a type of bacteria called
Salmonella typhi (S. typhi). Classical symptoms of this disease, beyond diarrhea, are
caused by its systemic infection phase. The bacteria typically first travel into the
intestines, and then into the bloodstream, where they can migrate to the lymph nodes,
gallbladder, liver, spleen, and other parts of the body. These patients displayed classical
symptoms of advanced disease, including high fever, general ill-feeling, and abdominal
pain, and significantly, a classical rash - "rose spots," which are small red spots on the
abdomen and chest.
[00255] As is typical for this practice environment, no diagnostic testing was
performed on these patients beyond gross physical examination. Although these
patients did not fit into the inclusion criteria for the field study they were provided with
the composition of Example 1B, at the request of the attending physicians, on
compassionate grounds.
[00256] The standard inoculation protocol for chickens with three commercially
available vaccines did not specifically include antigens for Salmonella, so only a
limited clinical response was expected. A mild improvement due to endotoxin
neutralization was predicted, with some associated relief of the major diarrheal
symptoms, but no effect on the course of the disease itself.
[00257] Surprisingly, all of the typhoid fever patients receiving the composition of
Example lB showed dramatic improvement in diarrhea symptoms within 24 to 48
hours. This improvement appeared to be beyond what might be expected for endotoxin
neutralization alone. More surprising however was the fact that the systemic symptoms
of typhoid fever in all cases also disappeared within the following 24 hour period,
yielding a time period to normal or near normal status of 48 to 72 hours. In typhoid
fever symptoms usually improve in 2 to 4 weeks with treatment.
[00258] None of the patients exhibited any rebound or recurrence of disease during the
field trial observation period (5 days). It is well established that symptoms may return
rapidly if the treatment has not completely cured the infection.
[00259] Treatment with the composition of Example 1B, once per day for three
consecutive was sufficient to cause (in conjunction with standard of care) a dramatic
reduction in symptoms of the disease, both GI and systemically, within a remarkably

short period of time. The timeframe of response could not be explained by natural or
"standard of care" effects alone.
[00260] In an attempt to discover the source of this unexpected efficacy, the entire
history of the production process for that lot was carefully reviewed. It was discovered
that as part of an ordinary, but discretionary, inoculation protocol for commercial laying
hens the chickens we used were inoculated with salmonella vaccine.
[00261] Although the birds were vaccinated as chicks, the formulation was found to be
highly efficacious against Salmonella typhi. Salmonella was not one of the antigens in
the inoculation protocol used for the chickens in the Example 1 preparations. The
unexpected response of these typhoid fever patients to the composition of the disclosure
was noted to be very surprising to the attending physicians during the field trial.
EXAMPLE 6. Quantitative ELISA for Egg Powder Specific IgY and Total IgY.
[00262] The antibody activity of total IgY and specific anti-antigen IgY can be
determined using Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbant Assay (ELISA) by a modification of
the method of Liou et al., 2011, J. Anim. Vet. Adv., 10(18):2349-2356, as described
below.
[00263] Microtiter plates are coated with either 100 uL mixed antigen preparation (10
ug per well) or coated with 100 uL rabbit anti-chicken IgY antibody (10 ug/mL, Sigma
Aldrich), for control wells. The plate is incubated overnight at 40 C. After washing
with PBS-Tween 20 buffer, plates are blocked with 2% BSA and incubated overnight at
4'C. The wells are then washed with PBS-Tween 20 buffer and once with PBS.
Thereafter, diluted dried egg powder stock (10 mg/mL) is serially diluted with 1% BSA
and added to sample wells at 100 uL per well. Wells for standard curve are filled with
100 uL serial dilutions of standard IgY at, e.g., at concentration ranges of, e.g., 0.015-1
ug/mL and incubated overnight at 4'C. After washing with PBS-Tween 20 buffer, 100
uL of alkaline phosphatase-conjugated goat anti-chicken IgY is added to the wells and
incubated 2 hours at 370 C. After washing with PBS-Tween 20 buffer, 100 uL disodium
p-nitrophenyl phosphate as substrate is added to each well and allowed to react for 10
min at 370 C. The absorbance is measured at 405 nm using a plate reader. The
absorbance of standard curves provides a relative measurement of specific anti-antigen
IgY concentration.

                                             U /
[00264] For measurement of total IgY, each well of the microtiter plate is coated with
rabbit anti-chicken IgY antibody (10 ug/mL). After incubation and washing as above,
100 uL of diluted dried egg powder is added and assay is performed as above.
[00265] Although the invention has been described with reference to the above
examples, it will be understood that modifications and variations are encompassed
within the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly, the invention is limited only
by the following claims.
[00266] The entire disclosure in the complete specification of our Australian Patent
Application Nos. 2011332053 and <removed-apn> are by this cross-reference incorporated
into the present application.

                                             "U
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
 1.     A method for the treatment or prevention of diarrhea or enteric infection in a
human subject, the method comprising administering to the subject a composition
comprising:
                   a)     a non-neonate human effective amount of at least one specific
             binding molecule, or fragment thereof, obtained from an animal and that
             specifically binds to an antigen, wherein the specific binding molecule is
             selected from an immunoglobulin, antibody, peptide, variable
             lymphocyte receptor, cell receptor, transfer factor, and a mixture thereof;
             and,
                   b)     a carrier matrix comprising at least two components obtained
             from a nonhuman animal selected from the group consisting of enzymes,
             lactoferrin, transferrin, nonspecific immunoglobulins, cytokines, white
             blood cells, complement components, interferons, and fibronectin,
             wherein the at least one specific binding molecule and the at least two
             components of the carrier matrix are obtained from different animals.
2.      A method according to claim 1, wherein the carrier matrix comprises a
matrix obtained from, isolated from, or derived from, colostrum.
3.      A method according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the at least two
components of the carrier matrix are selected from the group consisting of lysozyme,
phospholipase, defensins, opsonins, nonspecific immunoglobulins, proline-rich
polypeptides (PRPs), components of the complement system, beta-lysin, lactoferrin,
transferrin, cytokines, interleukins, chemokines, interferons, TNF-alpha, fibronectin,
leukocytes, white blood cells, phagocytes, macrophages, monocytes, neutrophils,
polymorphonuclear cells, dendritic cells, mast cells, eosinophils, basophils, natural
killer (NK) cells, lymphokine activated killer (LAK) cells, elastase, cathepsin G,
myeloperoxidase, NADPH oxidase, and combinations thereof.
4.      A method according to any one of claims I to 3, wherein the antigen is
derived from a pathogen, a pathogen related toxin, a pathogen related adhesion
element, undesirable strain, or a combination thereof.

5.       A method according to claim 4, wherein the pathogen is selected from a
human or veterinary, enteric or gastrointestinal, pathogen causing gastroenteritis.
6.       A method according to claim 4, wherein the pathogen is selected from the
group consisting of: Campylobacterjejuni,Salmonella, Salmonella entericaserovar
Typhi, Shigella dystenteriae,Plesiomonasshigelloides,Escherichiacoli,
enteropathogenic E. coli, enterotoxigenic E. coli, enteroaggregative E. coli,
enteroinvasive E. coli, haemorrhagic E. coli, Clostridium difficile, Yersinia
enterocolitica, Vibrio cholerae 01, Vibrio 0139, Non-O 1 Vibrios, Vibrio
parahaemolyticus,Aeromonas hydrophila, Clostridiumperfringens,enterohepatic
Helicobacter,Helicobacterpylori, Staphylococcus aureus, Klebsiella, Gardnerella
spp., Neisseria gonorrhoeae,Chlamydiaceae trachomatis,Mycoplasma spp.,
Trichomonas vaginalis, herpes virus type 1, herpes virus type 2, Candidaalbicans,
Candidaglabrata,Candida tropicalis, Candidaparapsilosisand Candidakrusei,
Group A Streptococcus spp., rotavirus, coronavirus, norovirus, calicivirus, enteric
adenovirus, cytomegalovirus, astrovirus, S. pneumoniae, H. influenzae, Neisseria
gonorrhoeae,herpes zoster virus, Fusarium spp., and Acanthamoeba spp.
7.       A method according to claim 4, wherein the pathogen related toxin
comprises an endotoxin or exotoxin.
8.       A method according to claim 4, wherein the pathogen related adhesion
element comprises adhesins, cadherins, cilia, fimbrillae, a viral adhesion structure,
or a combination thereof.
9.       A method according to any one of claims I to 8, wherein the composition
comprises an amount effective for the treatment or prevention of undifferentiated
diarrhea, traveler's diarrhea, rotavirus diarrhea, toxin-mediated diarrhea, cholera, C.
difficile infection, dysentery, typhoid fever, peptic ulcers, or for gastrointestinal flora
management.
 10.     A method according to claim 9, wherein the undifferentiated diarrhea is
pediatric undifferentiated diarrhea.

                                          / U
11.      A method according to any one of claims I to 8, wherein the composition
comprises an amount effective for conferring passive immunity to a subject.
12.      A method according to any one of claims I to 11, wherein the specific
binding molecule is an antibody or a fragment thereof.
13.      A method according to claim 12, wherein the antibody or fragment thereof is
a polyclonal antibody or a monoclonal antibody.
14.      A method according to claim 12, wherein the antibody is IgY.
15.      A method according to any one of claims 12 to 14, wherein the antibody is a
polyclonal antibody.
16.      A method according to any one of claims I to 15, wherein the carrier matrix
comprises bovine colostrum.
17.      A method according to claim 16, wherein the bovine colostrum is whole
bovine colostrum.
18.      A method according to claim 16 or claim 17, wherein the bovine colostrum
is non-hyperimmune bovine colostrum.
19.      A method according to any one of claims I to 18, wherein the specific
binding molecule is in a solid form.
20.      A method according to claim 19, wherein the specific binding molecule is
crystalline.
21.      A method according to any one of claims 1 to 20, wherein the carrier matrix
is in a solid form.
22.      A method according to any one of claims I to 21, wherein the composition
further comprises a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent, binder, excipient, lubricant,
sweetening agent, flavoring agent, wetting agent, or absorbent.

                                            / 1
23.     A method according to any one of claims I to 22, wherein the composition is
useful for the management of a pathogenic or undesirable strain of microorganism in
the human subject.
24.     A method according to claim 23, wherein the human subject is a non-neonate
human subject.
25.     A method according to claim 23 or claim 24, wherein the pathogenic or
undesirable strain of microorganism is selected from the group consisting of:
Campylobacterjejuni,Salmonella, Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi, Shigella
dystenteriae, Plesiomonasshigelloides,Escherichiacoli, enteropathogenic E. coli,
enterotoxigenic E. coli, enteroaggregative E. coli, enteroinvasive E. coli,
haemorrhagic E. coli, Clostridium difficile, Yersinia enterocolitica, Vibrio cholerae
01, Vibrio 0139, Non-O1 Vibrios, Vibrioparahaemolyticus,Aeromonas
hydrophila, Clostridiumperfringens,enterohepatic Helicobacter,Helicobacter
pylori, Staphylococcus aureus, Klebsiella, Gardnerellaspp., Neisseria gonorrhoeae,
Chlamydiaceaetrachomatis,Mycoplasma spp., Trichomonas vaginalis, herpes virus
type 1, herpes virus type 2, Candidaalbicans, Candidaglabrata,Candida
tropicalis, Candidaparapsilosisand Candidakrusei, Group A Streptococcus spp.,
rotavirus, coronavirus, norovirus, calicivirus, enteric adenovirus, cytomegalovirus,
astrovirus, S. pneumoniae, H. influenzae, Neisseriagonorrhoeae,herpes zoster
virus, Fusariumspp., and Acanthamoeba spp.
26.     A method according to any one of claims I to 22, wherein the composition is
useful as a nutritional composition for administering to a subject in need thereof,
wherein the subject is afflicted with a disease that creates special dietary needs
wherein the disease is selected from the group consisting of pediatric diarrhea,
Crohn's disease, and ulcerative colitis.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
