                                               ABSTRACT
       OPERATING OF A TRANSMISSION DEVICE OF A LIGHTING DEVICE COMPRISING AN
                                         ILLUMINATION DEVICE
The invention relates to a method for operating a transmission device (44, 46, 52, 56) of a lighting
device (12) comprising an illumination device (62), wherein the transmission device (44, 46, 52, 56)
is arranged in or immediatly on the illumination device (62) and wirelessly emits a radio signal (18,
48, 58) with identification signals that are specific to the transmission device (44, 46, 52, 56),
wherein the radio signal (18, 48, 58) is emitted according to exactly one predetermined radio
standard, wherein the radio signal (18, 48, 58) contains the specific identification data at least in
two data formats that are different from each other.
(Fig. 2)
9682081_1 (GHMatters) P107317.AU

                              2/4
     50
                                                     22
             62 64            66             68   36
                        60              70
                                                          42
                                      -74
                                     --    74             38
                                -- --- --- --- --4-
        *                    46
              30         72 44                       3
II *      76
               **iFig.2
      12 76    30         72 4                          i .

                                                       1
       OPERATING OF A TRANSMISSION DEVICE OF A LIGHTING DEVICE COMPRISING AN
                                         ILLUMINATION DEVICE
DESCRIPTION
The invention relates to a method for operating of a transmission device of a lighting device
comprising an illumination device, wherein the transmission device is arranged in or immediately
on the illumination device and wirelessly emits a radio signal with identification data that are
specific to the transmission device. The invention further relates to a lighting device with a
transmission device and an illumination device, wherein the transmission device is arranged in or
immediately on the illumination device and is configured to emit a radio signal with identification
data that are specific to the transmission device.
Lighting systems, lighting devices, as well as illumination devices and transmission devices of
generic kind are basically comprehensively known in the prior art so that a separate document for
proof is not required. By means of lighting systems spaces, for instance outside or also inside
buildings, are lit in predeterminable way in order to allow for or support an intended use. For the
lighting systems more and more frequently lighting devices are employed, which besides an
illuminating device that emits light in a predeterminable way, also comprise a transmission device,
which is at least configured to wirelessly emit specific identification data, for instance in the way of
radio broadcasting. Preferably this transmission device is configured to emit the radio signal in the
manner of near field radio communication. Such a transmission device is also referred to as
"beacon" in the prior art.
So-called beacons can be combined with illumination devices in order to provide lamp-specific or
also other information by means of their radio signal. The beacon technology is based on a
transmitter system or on a transmitter-receiver system. A beacon (in German also referred to as
Leuchtfeuer, Bake, Peilsender or the like) is a small, mostly battery-operated sender, which emits a
radio signal, preferably at definable time intervals, for instance based on a Bluetooth low energy
standard (BLE). The radio signal of a beacon is characterized by the identification data, which for
instance comprise a unique identification number, for instance referred to in English as universally
unique identifier (UUID). Beacons can be used for assigning an, in particular digital, identification to
objects and/or places. Objects on which a beacon is mounted, as well as places at which a beacon
is installed, for instance on a wall or a ceiling, in this way can be identified by communication
terminals, for instance smart phones, laptops and/or the like, in the signal field of the beacon.
9682081_1 (GHMatters) P107317.AU

                                                     2
With the aid of a beacon thereby for instance a place can be identified or a localization be
performed. By way of arranging one or several beacons within a predetermined area, for instance
a building area or the like, a kind of radio-based grid can be provided, which allows for a
communication terminal present in this area by means of its radio interface, in particular BLE
interface, as well as corresponding evaluation options, to determine a position of its own. The
individual identification data of the installed beacons in this connection provide a place with an
identification, on the basis of which the communication end device, at least approximately can
determine the position. In principle in any case a transmission range of a respective beacon can be
determined. By suitable evaluation, for instance using predetermined algorithms or the like, the
precision of the determined position, for instance whilst evaluating a signal strength and/or the like,
can be improved. Preferably, the communication terminal can access data of a data storage for
this purpose, for instance via a communication network such as the internet, a mobile radio
network and/or the like. The data storage for instance can be a cloud server or the like. Here for
instance the identification data and associated position data can be recorded in a map.
If the communication terminal comes within reach of the transmission device or the beacon, it can
determine its own position on the basis of the determined identification data thus for instance via a
server request. Whilst using further radio signals of further transmission devices or beacons by
means of localization algorithms the precision can be improved, in particular from a receiving field
strength of the respective radio signal of the transmission device or of the beacon a distance from
the respective transmission device or the respective beacon can be determined.
In principle in the lighting technology in the case of lighting systems of generic kind or their lighting
devices transmission devices or beacons can be installed. In this connection in particular the
advantage is used that a light installation provides a permanent access to energy in order to supply
electrical energy to the transmission device or the beacon. This leads to an advantage, namely that
the transmission device or the beacon requires no energy supply of its own in the form of a battery
and thus corresponding maintenance expense can be saved. Moreover, this embodiment allows
for also selecting settings of the transmission device or the beacon, which involve a high energy
consumption, without this having to have an effect on an operating life of the beacon. Moreover,
installation processes of such transmission devices or beacons and the light technology can be
standardized. A further advantage is a defined locking position of the transmission device or the
beacon, which is preferably selected such that the transmission device or the beacon are protected
against manipulation. Thereby, a place thus can be assigned a reliably safe identification.
9682081_1 (GHMatters) P107317.AU

                                                         3
An overview about use potentials of the integration of a transmission device or a beacon into a
lighting device is rendered from the following, non-exhaustive list:
      -      The energy supply of the light installation can be used instead of an energy supply by a
             battery in order to reduce for instance the life cycle costs of the transmission device or the
             beacon.
      -      The electrical energy supply of the lighting system or the lighting device can be used in
             order to adjust transmission parameters of the signal of the transmission device or of the
             beacon to a service and not to an available remaining energy amount or to parameters of
             the battery. For instance frequent transmission cycles generate a high precision of the
             respective service, however, this can also lead to a raised energy consumption.
      -      The exchange of the battery of conventional transmission devices or beacons involves
             risks, for instance with regard to handling errors.
      -      An unavailability of services can be avoided by an uninterrupted energy supply of the
             transmission device or of the beacon.
      -      An installation place below a ceiling can be advantageous for a signal propagation of the
             signal of the transmission device or the beacon.
      -      An installation place below the ceiling can render the overall system more robust against
             interferences or shadings through other objects at floor level in contrast to an installation of
             the transmission device or of the beacon itself at floor level.
      -      The transmission device or the beacon can be protected against manipulations or
             unauthorized access - whether inadvertently or intentional.
      -      The lighting system as well as services, such as for instance localization services or the
             like, can be offered as overall system "from a single source".
      -      Moreover, the possibility of using a safe communication network of the lighting system
             exists for instance in order to configure the transmission devices or the beacon or to
             interlink the transmission devices or the beacons with each other.
9682081_1 (GHMatters) P107317.AU

                                                         4
      -      A standardization of installation processes of transmission devices or beacons and the
             lighting system can be facilitated.
      -      Further, there exists the possibility of coupling to further system elements of a peripheral
             building infrastructure via the communication network of the lighting system, for instance
             with elements of the safety technology and/or the like.
      -      An optically appealing lighting system can be provided since the transmission device or the
             beacon can be arranged invisibly in the respective lighting device or in the lighting system.
A beacon can be integrated as transmission device within a lighting device of a lighting system.
The lighting system can comprise a multitude of lighting devices. The lighting device besides the
beacon comprises the illumination device, which by means of one or several illumination means
provides the desired lighting function. The beacon and the illumination device are in
communication with each other. The beacon is preferably arranged to be integrated within the
lighting device, in particular within a common housing. This means that there is no need to provide
a separate housing for the beacon. Thereby the beacon can be simultaneously arranged to be
protected so that the intended function can be provided with high reliability. Further lighting devices
of the lighting system can be designed to be preferably identical to the lighting device. Moreover, of
course, also in particular with regard to their illumination devices different lighting devices can be
provided. In this connection the transmission devices or beacons, however, can be of equal
design.
The beacon is designed to wirelessly emit a radio signal with the identification data that are specific
to the beacon. Preferably the emission is effected by radio whilst using a BLE standard. The
beacon further comprises preferably a control unit, which comprises a computing unit as well as a
storage unit. In the storage unit an executable computer program, which is provided for the
computing unit, so that by means of the computing unit a predetermined control function can be
realized.
The beacon can further be in communication with further beacons. The communication link can
equally be configured as wireless communication link according to the BLE standard. Equally as
well, though, a wired communication link can be envisaged. The communication link between the
beacon and the further beacons is preferably bidirectional in order to be able to exchange signals,
in particular data.
9682081_1 (GHMatters) P107317.AU

                                                        5
Moreover, the beacon can be connected to a data infrastructure device via a further
communication link. The data infrastructure device can serve for controlling the lighting system,
here in particular the lighting devices of the lighting system. The infrastructure device can for
instance comprise the internet or a central service provision server. The data infrastructure device
can further serve for controlling and/or transmitting data. The local beacon of the lighting device
can be configured as mere transmission device for emitting radio signals of the kind of a radio
broadcasting operation or also as combined transmitter-receiver device, which besides the emitting
of radio signals of the kind of a radio broadcasting operation also facilitates a receiving of radio
signals or even a bidirectional communication with a communication terminal.
The radio signal of the beacon can be received by means of communication terminals, such as for
instance a smart phone, a laptop and/or the like.
According to an example of use users or devices may possibly be faced with the challenge of
having to orientate themselves, to navigate within an area, or wishing to find or use other local
digital services, such as for instance apps, app functions, Google maps, Lightify, a light control
and/or the like. The lighting system with integrated beacons within a predetermined area can
become a localization or orientation system for these use potentials. With a thus realizable self
localization of the communication terminal now services can be provided, for instance a navigation,
a provision of site-specific information, services and/or the like.
One aspect of the beacon technology is the possibility of configuring typical parameters, such as
for instance a signal strength, a transmission interval and/or the like of the beacon. With different
configurations various application scenarios can be individually supported. If for instance a high
service quality with regard to a precise localization in short intervals is desired, for instance in an
indoor navigation, for instance very short sending intervals may need to be configured.
 In particular in the case of digitally controlled lighting systems, for instance using Digital
Addressable Lighting Interfaces (DALI), it should be possible to unambiguously identify which
illumination means or which illumination device is arranged at which place in order to facilitate by
means of digital light control an exact control of the illumination devices or their illumination means
in a certain area. The lighting devices or the illumination devices, respectively, require for this
purpose a clear address, which reflects their position within a predetermined area. The person
skilled in the art refers to such assignment of lighting devices or illumination devices, respectively,
to corresponding positions or addresses, respectively, also as ,commissioning". In this connection
preferably several pieces of information should be combined, namely an unambiguous
9682081_1 (GHMatters) P107317.AU

                                                      6
identification information of a respective lighting device or illumination device, preferably of the kind
of unambiguous specific identification data, an installation site of the respective lighting device or
illumination device within a predetermined area, i. e., a physical address of the lighting device or
the illumination device, as well as an identification of the lighting device or the illumination device, i.
e. for instance their digital address.
The digital address of a lighting device or illumination device can for instance be transmitted via a
powerline communication or a similar power-based communication solution via the energy
propagation to a control or data processing unit. The illumination device or a ballast of the
illumination device can thus register with the digital address with the control unit. Thus, however,
the information at which physical place within the predetermined area the illumination device is
actually arranged is not yet available. This information, however, is required if only a defined area,
for instance only a conference room or part thereof or the like, is to be lit.
Presently lighting systems or illumination means and at the same time their sites as a rule cannot
be easily electronically identified. Typically, it can only be recognized via a sticker or an
embossment, for instance on a housing of the lighting device or the illumination device, what kind
of lighting device or illumination device or of the illumination means it is. Another elaborate
possibility consists in having every digitally registered illumination device blink individually as part
of the illumination system and manually mark a position information within a layout.
In order to connect illumination devices and/or illumination means as part of the illumination system
efficiently with a light management system (LMS), it would be advantageous to have at disposal
one or several electronical or digital identification numbers for identification of the overall system or
of individual components of the overall system.
A specific problem further consists in the fact that as a rule in an installation plan positions of the
illumination devices or illumination means for a lighting area or a service area are fixed. This
provides a person in charge of installation with a guideline as to which of the delivered or
commissioned lighting devices or illumination devices, for instance with regard to a lamp type or
the like, is to be arranged in which position of the area, for instance the building, according to the
installation plan.
Site-specific services or services, such as for instance navigation of a user or the like, by means of
beacon should be permanently and without restriction available to the user within a predetermined
9682081_1 (GHMatters) P107317.AU

                                                     7
area. This requires besides an uninterrupted electrical energy supply also a regular maintenance
or possibly also updating of computing programs such as for instance the firm ware or the like.
Services using a beacon, such as for instance a navigation by means of a communication end
device, should be available to the users preferably permanently and if possible without restriction.
This requires amongst other things an uninterrupted energy supply for the beacons. Nevertheless,
it turned out to be an obstacle that communication terminals as a rule are configured for a
predetermined, in particular proprietary, communication protocol. The communication protocols,
which meanwhile are in use, as a rule are based on the BLE standard as radio standard.
Depending on the respective communication terminal specific communication protocol the
communication terminals in some cases respond quite differently. A beacon protocol established in
this connection is for example the ,,iBeacon" protocol@ of the company Apple Inc. Communication
terminals based on the operating system iOS@ of the company Apple Inc. can for instance receive
and process a radio signal according to the iBeacon protocol@. Moreover, further such beacon
protocols are known, such as for instance ,,Eddiestone"® of the company Google or the beacon
protocol ,AltBeacon", which is an open source protocol. In order to allow for an as broad as
possible application of the beacon technology, it may thus be necessary to employ several beacon
protocols in parallel. This raises the problem for the manufacture of beacons, in particular with
regard to their energy supply as well as the possibly reliable provision of a corresponding service
and the like. Of course, there is the possibility of providing for each beacon protocol an adjusted
beacon of its own. This, however, turns out to be expensive, in particular with regard to the energy
supply and/or constructive aspects concerning the spatial arrangement of the beacon. Moreover,
the number of the specific identification data would be correspondingly increased.
If for instance a manager of a supermarket would like to make sure that the offered services, such
as for instance a navigation of a customer through the supermarket or the like, are available
without restriction to any customer with any communication terminal, according to the possible
manufacturer-specific or operating system specific communication terminal adjusted beacons
would need to be installed. However, this leads to it that for instance in the case of two beacon
protocols at least double the number of beacons need to be installed. This leads to high investment
costs, high life cycle costs due to a corresponding battery change, a high installation expense as
well as a high installation expense for fixing a corresponding beacon protocol and the like.
Moreover, also problems with the signal processing through the communication terminals can be
caused if the various beacons for instance are not orchestrated with regard to a transmission time
and a radio signal strength or the like.
9682081_1 (GHMatters) P107317.AU

                                                       8
It is therefore the task of the invention to improve a functionality of the transmission device of the
lighting device.
As solution with the invention a method as well as a lighting device according to the independent
claims is suggested.
Further advantageous embodiments derive on the basis of features of the dependent claims.
With regard to a method of the generic kind it is suggested in particular that the radio signal is
emitted according to exactly one predetermined radio standard, wherein the radio signal contains
at least the specific identification data at least in two data formats that are different from each
other.
With regard to a lighting device of the generic kind it is in particular suggested that the transmission
device is further configured to emit the radio signal according to exactly one predetermined radio
standard, wherein the radio signal contains the specific identification data at least in two data
formats that are different from each other.
The invention is based on the insight that merely by designing the radio signal, preferably within
the predetermined scope of the corresponding radio standard, various beacon protocols can be
realized so that preferably merely exactly one single predetermined radio standards needs to be
employed. In this connection it is possible to design the radio signal in at least two data formats
that are different from each other in such a way that it is recognized by the corresponding
communication terminal, which uses the corresponding data format, as radio signal of a beacon
suitable for the communication terminal. Thereby for the application of the beacon technology for
communication terminals, which are based on different data formats, no separate beacons or
transmission devices need to be provided anymore.
It turns out to be particularly advantageous if this transmission device or the beacon merely
requires a single radio unit in order to emit the radio signal with the different data formats.
However, besides it may also be envisaged that two or several radio units are provided, which are
assigned to respective data formats. The radio units can be in communication with each other so
that the emitting of the radio signal are suitably synchronized by the radio units. For this purpose it
may also be envisaged that the transmission unit comprises a control unit to which the radio units
are connected and which controls the radio units accordingly. For instance it may be envisaged
that the control unit provides the specific identification data for the radio units, the radio units then
9682081_1 (GHMatters) P107317.AU

                                                     9
format and correspondingly synchronize the radio signal. It may also be envisaged that, if merely a
single radio unit is envisaged for emitting the radio signal, the control unit formats the specific
identification data in the at least two data formats that are different from each other and transmits a
corresponding control signal to the radio unit, which then emits the radio signal.
The transmission device or the beacon moreover may also comprise a receiver unit, which allows,
preferably by radio, in particular near field radio communication, for receiving a communication
signal, for instance from a communication terminal, which is situated within communication range
of the beacon, whereby then a transmitter-receiver device is formed. Thereby it is possible to
additionally provide functionality, for instance by evaluating the communication signal on the side
of the beacon and on the basis of the data gained thereby in addition to the radio signal further
data can be emitted, for instance with regard to a function of the lighting device, used illumination
means of the illumination device of the lighting device, available data formats and/or the like. Near
field radio communication in the present case means in particular that by means of a radio
connection a communication range of several meters, for instance in a range of about 1 m to about
25 m, preferably in a range of about 1 m to about 10 m, in particular preferably within a range of
about 2 m to about 5 m, can be achieved.
 In this connection the invention due to the arrangement of the transmission device or the beacon
allows for using an existing energy and/or communication interface of a light installation or the
lighting device or of an illumination means of the lighting device for the energy supply of one or
several of the transmission devices or beacons, wherein this may comprise on the secondary side
and/or on the primary side also for instance communication interfaces of an electronical ballast
(ECG) of the illumination device as well as of the communication and/or energy and
communication interfaces.
One option, in which a separate energy converter can be saved for the transmission device or the
beacon, is further an electrical terminal of the transmission device or the beacon in parallel to an
illumination means, in particular to a light-emitting diode unit or a group of light-emitting diodes or
possibly a light-emitting diode carrier module and/or the like.
The invention suggests to emit two or several radio signals for instance several beacon signals of
the same protocol with different content or different beacon protocols in parallel based on a single
radio standard such as the Bluetooth low energy standard, a WLAN standard, or the like, with the
aid of one or several transmission devices or beacons, wherein the transmission device or the
9682081_1 (GHMatters) P107317.AU

                                                     10
beacon can be supplied with electrical energy preferably via the illumination device of the lighting
device.
It may be envisaged that parameters of the radio signal can be adjusted as required for instance to
be better adapted to the respective data format. A parameter of the radio signal for instance can be
a carrier frequency, a transmission power, a phasing, a band width of the radio signal, a signal
type, an information type, and/or the like. By means of the transmission device it should be
possible to offer preferably several services, preferably in parallel. For instance for a service A a
high position precision should be required so that the corresponding radio signal is emitted with the
corresponding data format with a low transmission performance but a high local resolution. In a
service B, however, for instance an as great as possible range could be desired instead.
Accordingly, in an emitting of the signal B a high transmission power with low local resolution can
be envisaged. Accordingly signal sections of the radio signal can be envisaged, which can be
specifically adapted for the respective used data formats.
Preferably it is suggested that the radio signal temporally is divided into a number of subsequent
signal sections, wherein the number of the signal sections corresponds at least to a number of data
formats that are different from each other, wherein each of the data formats is assigned at least
one of the signal sections. This allows for adapting the radio signal, which merely needs to be a
single radio signal for the emitting of the different data formats. Therein, of course, it may be
envisaged that each data format is assigned at least one of the signal sections. However, also one
data format can be assigned more than merely one single signal section. Moreover, also the
possibility of assigning individual signal sections to none of the data formats, whereby then for
instance the radio signal can contain a non-transmission period.
Depending on the requirements of the respective data format thus also frequencies of the emission
of the specific identification data can be influenced for instance by assigning a data format that is
frequently to be emitted to several transmission sections, wherein a data format to be less
frequently emitted is assigned to fewer transmission sections. Basically, of course, there exists the
possibility of dividing the radio signal into a nearly endless sequence of subsequent signal
sections, wherein the data formats are correspondingly assigned and thus can form an assignment
pattern. However, it may also be envisaged that the radio signal itself on the whole occupies a
predetermined radio signal period, which is subdivided into the temporally subsequent signal
sections.
9682081_1 (GHMatters) P107317.AU

                                                       11
Preferably a period of time for a respective one of the signal sections depends on the respective
assigned data format. This takes into consideration that the specific identification data in the
respective data formats may require periods of different length. Thereby the use of the radio signal
can be further improved. Thus, it may be envisaged that the periods of time of the signal sections
are measured such that the radio signal preferably emits data essentially without interruption.
However, it may also be envisaged that individual or all periods of time for the respective signal
section comprise a pause period so that the respective signal sections can be recognized in a
simple way as separate signal sections. The pause periods can also be occupied by a suitable
synchronization signal.
Preferably the data format assigned to each signal section is provided by a respective formatting
unit of the transmission device which is adjusted to the respective data format. This allows for a
simple generation or provision of the specific identification data in the respective data format. The
formatting unit, however, can also be configured to be able to provide at least two or possibly more
data formats. In this embodiment the formatting unit can be configured to be correspondingly
switchable so that it provides the specific identification data according to a predetermined switching
state in the data format corresponding to the respective switching state. The formatting unit in this
respect, however, can possibly also be part of the afore-mentioned control unit, but possibly also
part of the single radio unit, in particular if only one single radio unit is envisaged.
According to a further development it is suggested that upon reaching a temporal end of the period
of time of a first one of the signal sections automatically a provision of the specific identification
data according to a data format that is assigned to a second signal section it is triggered which
second signal section immediately follows the first signal section. In this connection it is envisaged
that the specific identification data are immediately generated in the corresponding data format for
the respective assigned transmission section. This is in particular suitable for manufacturing
transmission devices or beacons and only thereafter to equip them with individual specific
identification data, which then are stored in the transmission device or the beacon. Thereby the
hardware devices of the transmission device or the beacon can be standardized so that a cost
effective manufacture is facilitated.
Preferably it is envisaged that each signal section is emitted by an own radio unit of the
transmission device, which is assigned to the respective signal section. The radio units thus jointly
emit the radio signal, and this preferably in the time multiplex so that each radio unit emits the
signal section assigned to it. Thereby the radio signal can be emitted by the radio units specifically
9682081_1 (GHMatters) P107317.AU

                                                     12
adjusted to the respective assigned data format. Preferably, the radio signal is provided by joining
the respective transmission sections of the radio units.
Moreover it is suggested that at least between the radio units of the transmission device a
communication link exists. Preferably the communication link also exists between radio units of
transmission devices of different lighting devices so that a communication network of the kind of a
mesh network can be formed. Thereby it is possible to suitably synchronize the different
transmission directions in particular their radio units so that a preferably unimpaired emission of
respective radio signals can be facilitated. For instance it may be envisaged that radio signals of
transmission devices of adjacent lighting devices are synchronized in such a way that they
temporally overlap as little as possible so that an as unimpaired as possible receipt of the
transmission signals of the lighting devices by the respective communication terminal can be
achieved. In this connection with regard to the synchronization also a communication range
between the communication devices and the respective transmission device or beacon can be
taken into account. Thus, for instance in the case of transmission devices or beacons that are at a
great distance from each other by any means an overlapping may be admissible if namely the
communication range is exceeded clearly enough by the respective distance of the transmission
devices for the respective communication terminal to receive the radio signals of the transmission
devices undisturbed.
It turns out to be particularly advantageous if in each case only the one of the radio units assigned
to a respective active signal section is supplied with electrical energy. Thereby a particularly
energy-efficient operation of the transmission devices or beacons can be achieved. The supply of
the radio units with electrical energy can for instance be controlled by means of the control unit.
Further it is suggested that at least two of the signal sections are emitted by a single radio unit,
which signal sections contain the specific identification data in two data formats that are different
from each other. In this connection it is envisaged that the radio unit is configured to be able to
emit the specific identification data in at least two data formats that are different from each other. It
may moreover be envisaged that further radio units are envisaged that emit the specific
identification data according to a further data format, which for instance could not be realized by
means of the first radio unit. On the whole, hereby it can be achieved that the number of required
radio units can be kept to a minimum. Preferably, merely a single radio unit needs to be provided,
which then is configured to be able to use all data formats that are different from each other.
9682081_1 (GHMatters) P107317.AU

                                                     13
In particular it turns out to be advantageous if the radio unit is adjusted with regard to a number of
the signal sections to be provided and/or the data formats assigned to the respective signal
sections. Thereby standardized radio units for the transmission device can be provided, which can
be accordingly adjusted as required possibly still after an installation of the lighting device in order
to allow for an as broad as possible use of the beacon technology. For this purpose it may be
envisaged that the transmission device or the beacon comprises the receiving unit, via which the
radio unit can be adjusted accordingly. The adjusting can for instance be effected by programming
a computing unit of the transmission device or the radio unit accordingly. This may for instance be
effected as part of a firmware update or the like.
 Further it is suggested that the radio signal is emitted at least into an area that is lit by means of
the lighting device comprising the transmission device in the intended lighting operation mode.
Thereby it can be achieved that at least in the area of the lighting device that can be lit also the
radio signal corresponding to the assigned transmission device or beacon can be received.
However, it may also be envisaged that the radio signal can be received beyond the area that can
be lit.
 Preferably, the emitting of the radio signal is repeated in a predetermined time interval. This relates
in particular to radio signals the temporal extension of which is limited, for instance to a
corresponding radio signal period or the like. Thus, no continuous emitting of the radio signal
needs to be given, whereby on the one hand energy can be saved and on the other hand a period
of time can be created, in which other transmission devices or beacons can emit their radio signals
as undisturbed as possible. On the whole, hereby the functionality of a lighting system with several
lighting devices comprising the transmission devices or beacons can be improved.
 Further it turns out to be advantageous if the transmission device by means of a receiving unit
receives a terminal signal of a communication terminal, determines its data format, and emits the
radio signal with the specific identification data according to the determined data format. Thereby
the transmission device in a highly flexible way responds to specific communication terminals and
here in particular to the data format used by the respective communication terminal. For instance it
may be envisaged that the transmission device or the beacon switches the emitting of the specific
identification data according to the received data format. This has the advantage that the
transmission device or the beacon need not emit every one of the data formats regularly. In this
way a simple specific adaptation in the intended operation of the transmission device or beacon
can be achieved.
9682081_1 (GHMatters) P107317.AU

                                                                14
It further turns out to be advantageous if in particular the determined data format is compared with
the data formats and is assigned to the determined data format of one of the signal sections. The
assignment of the signal section can be effected in that a free signal section is assigned to the
determined data format. It may, however, also be the case that a signal section already assigned
to a data format is now assigned to the determined data format. Thereby the flexibility with regard
to the use of the beacon technology can be further improved.
The embodiment variants indicated with regard to the inventive method as well as advantages and
effects in the same way also apply in analogy to the inventive lighting device and vice versa. In this
connection respective method features can be regarded as functional features for means that are
suited herefor.
Further advantages and features are rendered by the embodiments shown in the following with
reference to the enclosed figures. In the figures same references designate same features and
functions.
It is shown in:
Fig. 1                     in a schematic block diagram an integration of a beacon as transmission device into
                           a lighting device of a lighting system comprising several lighting devices,
Fig. 2                     a schematic block diagram of a first design for a lighting device according to the
                           invention,
Fig. 3                     a schematic block diagram of a second design for a lighting device according to the
                           invention and
Fig. 4                     a schematic block diagram of a third design for a lighting device according to the
                           invention.
Fig. 1 shows in a schematic block diagram a lighting system 10, which comprises a lighting device
 12 as well as a plurality of further lighting devices 20. Each of the lighting devices 12, 20 comprises
a lighting device with one or even several illumination means for emitting light that are not shown
as well as a beacon 16 as transmission device. The beacon 16 in the present case is arranged in
the illumination device 14. The beacon 16 in the manner of radio broadcasting unidirectionally
wirelessly emits a radio signal 78 with identification data that are specific to the beacon 16 in the
9682081_1 (GHMatters) P107317.AU

                                                     15
manner of radio broadcasting. The emitting in the present case is effected whilst using near field
radio communication based on a Bluetooth Low Energy Protocol (BLE).
The beacon 16 comprises a control unit 28 including a computing unit 30 as well as a storage unit
32 that is coupled with the computing unit 30 for communication purposes. In the storage unit 32
an executable computing program for the computing unit 30 is stored so that with the computing
unit 30 a predetermined functionality can be provided. In the present case the functionality serves
for operating the beacon 16 in a predeterminable way. The further lighting devices 20 basically are
of a set-up similar to that of the lighting device 12.
In the present case the beacon 16 is configured as transmitter-receiver device, which besides the
emitting of the radio signal 78 can also provide a bidirectional communication link 24. Via the
communication link 24 the lighting device 12, and here in particular the beacon 16, is in
communication with the further lighting devices 20, which are correspondingly configured.
The communication link 24 in the present case is a bidirectional communication link, which equally
is based on near field communication and uses the afore-mentioned BLE standard.
Moreover, the lighting device 12, and here the equally again in particular the beacon 16, via a
further communication link 26 are in communication with an infrastructure device 22, thus being
able to exchange the data concerning an intended operation of the lighting device 12 as well as
also data with regard to the further lighting devices 20. The lighting device 12, and here in
particular their beacon 16, thus serve at the same time also as device for forwarding corresponding
data from the infrastructure device 22 to the lighting devices 20 and vice versa, for instance in the
manner of a network node.
The radio signal 78 emitted by the beacon 16 or the beacons of the lighting devices 20 can be
received and evaluated by one or also several communication terminals 34. The communication
terminal 34 in the present case is a mobile radio device of the kind of a smart phone. In the present
embodiment it is merely envisaged that the communication terminals 34 receive and evaluate the
radio signal 78. A communication, however, therefore is merely effected unidirectionally. Beacons
of the further lighting devices 20 can equally be received by means of the communication terminal
34. Thereby by means of the communication terminal 34 a number of services can be made
available or facilitated, which allow the user of the communication terminal 34 to use most varied
additional services.
9682081_1 (GHMatters) P107317.AU

                                                    16
Within a predetermined area, in which the lighting devices 12, 20 are arranged and in which the
radio signal 78 can be received by the communication terminal 34, the user of the communication
terminal 34 thus can better orientate himself or navigate as well as find and use other local, in
particular digital services, such as for instance apps, app functions, Google maps, Lightify, light
control and/or the like. The lighting system 10 with the beacons 16 arranged in the respective
lighting devices 12, 20 allows for the afore-mentioned user potentials a localization or orientation
system. In particular it is possible to provide a precise self-localization of the communication
terminal 34, whereby services become usable, such as for instance the navigation or the provision
of site-specific information.
One aspect of the beacon technology is the possibility of configuration of typical parameters, such
as for example a signal strength and/or a transmission interval of the radio signal 78 of the beacon
 16. By different configurations various application scenarios can be supported individually. If for
instance a high service quality, for instance a precise localization in short intervals, is desired, as it
is in particular required in the case of an indoor navigation, preferably very short transmission
intervals can be configured.
 Fig. 2 in a schematic block diagram shows a first embodiment for a lighting device 12, which
basically corresponds to the lighting device 12, as it has already been described with regard to Fig.
 1. The lighting device 12 according to Fig. 2 has a beacon 76 with two radio units 44, 46 as
transmission device as well as an illumination device 62. The beacon 76 with its radio units 44, 46
presently is arranged within the illumination device 62 and is configured to wirelessly emit by near
field radio communication a respective radio-unit-specific radio signal with signal sections 18, 48
with identification data that are specific to the beacon 76 according to the BLE standard as radio
standard. Both radio units 44, 46 are configured to emit the radio signal according to exactly this
one radio standard. The radio signal in the present case consists of two transmission sections,
namely a first transmission section 18, which is provided by the radio unit 44, and a second
transmission section 48, which is provided by the radio unit 46.
The radio signal in the signal sections 18, 48 contains the specific identification data of beacon 76
in presently two data formats that are different from each other. The various radio units 44, 46 in
this connection are configured according to the respective data formats. For this purpose initially
transmission parameters such as for instance a transmission interval, a signal intensity, and/or the
like, can be fixed, for instance in the course of a manufacture of the overall system.
9682081_1 (GHMatters) P107317.AU

                                                    17
In the present case it is further envisaged that the radio unit 44 upon being switched on
immediately uses a data format according to protocol F every 50 ms for emitting the specific
identification data of the beacon 76. By contrast the radio unit 46 equally emits with an initial delay
of 25 ms the specific identification data of the beacon 76 according to the data format based on a
protocol G equally every 50 ms. Alternatively or additionally a direct bidirectional communication
between the radio unit 44, 46 or also a central information processing for instance of an
electronical ballast 66 can be realized. In the case mentioned first preferably a communication link
between the radio units 44, 46 is envisaged. In the second case, by contrast, a communication link
of the respective one of the radio units 44, 46, each, is provided in addition to the central
information processing. In this connection it may be envisaged that the radio units 44,46 emit the
signal sections 18, 48 of the radio signal in a respectively defined rhythm, for instance alternately,
in order to preferably guarantee that the emitted signal sections 18, 48 at best do not mutually
influence each other. For instance it may be envisaged that the radio unit 44 in the rhythm of 100
ms emits its signal and the radio unit 46 emits its signal equally in the rhythm of 100 ms, wherein
however the emitting of the signals in each case is temporally offset by 50 ms.
This can render various constructive levers or requirements for the arrangement of the beacon 76
within the lighting device 12, for instance with regard to an arrangement of system elements within
the overall system or the like. Further it is presently envisaged that the emitting of the radio signal
with the signal sections 18, 48 is effected in the direction of the light 36 emitted by the illumination
device 62. Thereby for the user at the same time also an optically perceivable limitation of the
communication range to the beacon 76 exists.
The beacon 76 is preferably arranged in the illumination device 62 and here in particular in a
housing of the illumination device 62 that is not shown. The arrangement is envisaged in such a
way that negative influences due to an electromagnetic compatibility, in particular with regard to
the energy supply of the illumination device 62 are as low as possible.
 Electronic assemblies of the beacon 76, for instance the radio units 44, 46, are arranged within the
illumination device 62, for instance in pedestal areas, also end caps are arranged. Thereby an
optical shading of illumination means of the illumination device 62, which in the present case are
preferably configured by illumination diode modules, can be avoided. At the same time by a
symmetrical arrangement of a symmetrical radiation characteristic can be achieved.
In the present embodiment it is envisaged that the radio signal has two signal sections, namely a
first signal section, which is provided by the radio unit 44, and a second signal section, which is
9682081_1 (GHMatters) P107317.AU

                                                      18
provided by the radio unit 46. The radio units 44, 46 are coordinated in such a way that they
presently alternately emit the specific identification data according to the data format assigned to
them. Thereby it can be achieved that on the one hand services for different communication
terminals such as the communication terminal 34 can be provided, and on the other hand it can be
made sure that the signal sectors 18, 48 do not mutually influence each other.
The lighting device 12 according to Fig. 2 can be integral part of the lighting system 10, as it has
been set out with reference to Fig. 1. The illumination device 62 of the lighting device 12 is shown
in detail in a top portion of Fig. 2. The illumination device 62 in the present case comprises an
electronic ballast 66, an energy interface 64, which is connected via an energy transmission
channel 60 to the electronic ballast 66, as well as a light-emitting diode arrangement 68, which is
connected via a further energy transmission channel 70 to the electronic ballast 66. Via the energy
transmission channels 60, 70 the light-emitting diode arrangement 68 is supplied in
predeterminable way with electrical energy by the electronical ballast 66 so that the illumination
device 62 emits the light 36 in a predeterminable way. For this purpose the energy interface 64
receives electrical energy from a mains supply.
The electronic ballast 66 in the present case further via an energy transmission supplies the radio
units 44, 46 of the beacon 76, namely respective energy interfaces 72 which are assigned to the
radio units 44, 46. Thereby the beacon 76 can be operated in predeterminable way, in particular its
radio units 44, 46 for emitting the radio signal with the signal sections 18, 48. The lighting device
 12 further is connected to the mains supply 50, which receives electrical energy from a public
energy supply mains and provides it to the lighting device 12.
The radio signal with its transmission sections 18, 48, which is emitted by the beacon 76, can - as
has already been set out as to Fig. 1 - be received by means of the communication terminal 34
and can serve for providing further uses or services. Moreover, the communication terminal 34 can
be in communication with a router 40 via a communication link 38, which is equally configured as
near field radio communication. The router 40 is connected via a wired communication link 42 to an
infrastructure device 22, which in the present case as the infrastructure device 22 according to Fig.
 1 provides an access to the internet or to a central services server.
 Each of the radio units 44, 46 uses the same unambiguous specific identification data assigned to
the beacon 76. The radio units 44, 46 format these specific information data, which are present in
the respective one of the radio units 44, 46, according to the data format assigned to the radio
units 44, 46, and emit the corresponding signal sections 18 or 48 as radio signal.
9682081_1 (GHMatters) P107317.AU

                                                     19
Fig. 3 shows a further embodiment according to the invention in a schematic block diagram as Fig.
2. The embodiment according to Fig. 3 differs from the embodiment according to Fig. 2 by a
beacon 52 as transmission device, which is provided instead of the beacon 76 of the Fig. 2 in the
lighting device 12. The further features correspond to those already explained as to the Figs. 1 and
2, for which reason additionally reference is made to the corresponding explanations.
In this variant the emitting of a radio signal, which consists in three signal sections 18, 48, 58, is
effected with the aid of radio units 54 that are assigned to a corresponding one of the signal
sections 18, 48, 58. The radio units 54 in the present case are arranged to be integrated within the
beacon 52, preferably on a common printed circuit board with a common antenna. With regard to
the arrangement reference is made to the explanations given as to the preceding embodiments.
Thereby exists the possibility of a use of a common energy interface 72 for energy supply of the
different radio units 54 by the illumination device 62. The radio units 54 in the present case in a
defined rhythm emit, preferably alternately their corresponding signal sections 18, 48, 58 so that
the signal sections 18, 48, 58 preferably do not influence each other. The control or adjusting of the
emission of the radio units 54 in this connection is effected by an information processing that is
presently configured by a computing unit 30. In Fig. 3 it is shown that each of the radio units 54
comprises a computing unit 30. In an alternative embodiment, however, it may also be envisaged
that merely a single computing unit 30 is provided, which is integral part of the beacon 52 and
which correspondingly controls the radio units 54.
The embodiment according to Fig. 3 not only allows for the use of a common energy interface for
the purpose of the energy supply by the illumination device 62, but at the same time allow for
optimally using the construction space within the lighting device 12, which as a rule is very limited.
The radio units 54 are preferably adjusted to each other. The emitting of the corresponding signal
sections 18, 48, 58 as radio signal can equally be provided temporally offset.
In this way different transmission protocols such as for instance beacon protocols for different
communication terminals 34 can be provided by the beacon 52. This embodiment allows for a
flexible configuration of the beacon 52 or a definition of transmission intervals or transmission
sections and/or transmission protocols or data formats. The configuration can for instance be
effected wirelessly by means of BLE via a communication terminal, such as the communication
terminal 34, for which purpose the beacon 52 preferably exhibits a receiving unit. Thereby, the
beacon 52 can receive corresponding data for adjusting its parameters.
9682081_1 (GHMatters) P107317.AU

                                                    20
Here, too, the beacon 52 - equally as well as in the preceding embodiment - can be arranged in
one or two pedestal areas. Also hereby an optical shading of the light 36 generated by the light
emitting diode arrangement 68 can be avoided.
Preferably the beacon 52 further is arranged on a side or in an end region of the lighting device 12,
which is not applied with a high voltage of an energy supply. Thereby interferences of the beacon
52, for instance due to electromagnetic interferences, can largely be avoided.
 Fig. 4 shows a further schematic block diagram for a further embodiment according to the
invention. The embodiment according to Fig. 4 basically is based on the embodiment according to
 Fig. 3, wherein merely instead of the beacon 52 a beacon 56 is provided. With reference to the
further features and functions reference is made to the explanations as to the embodiment
according to Fig. 3.
 In the embodiment according to Fig. 4 the beacon 56 is envisaged, which merely comprises a
single radio unit that is not shown in further detail and is configured to emit the radio signal with the
signal sections 18, 48, 58 according to the respective data formats. This means here merely a
single radio unit with a single antenna is provided, which can be adjusted nearly freely with regard
to the usable data formats in the respective signal sections of the radio signal. Here, too, it is
envisaged that the signal sections 18, 48, 58 are emitted in a predetermined defined rhythm, in the
present case alternately. The signal sections 18, 48, 58 in this connection are assigned to different
beacon protocols. Correspondingly the data formats for these signal sections 18, 48, 58 are
selected.
This embodiment allows for the beacon 56 to be adjusted nearly as desired with regard to the data
formats and the number of the different data formats to be provided. Thereby a high flexibility can
be achieved, because the beacon 56 can, in particular also with hindsight, be adjusted nearly as
desired to data formats that are to be newly implemented. For this purpose the beacon 56
equally as the beacon 52 - comprises a receiving unit that is not shown in more detail and allows
for receiving the data with regard to parameters and data formats to be adjusted The computing
unit 30 is then configured to adjust the beacon 56 accordingly. This embodiment is particularly
inexpensive in particular with regard to the required hardware.
The embodiment of Fig. 4, however, can also be used according to a further embodiment. The
embodiment of the Fig. 4 namely allows for providing virtual beacons as transmission devices. For
9682081_1 (GHMatters) P107317.AU

                                                    21
this purpose two or more independent radio signals may be envisaged, which accordingly contain
several independent radio signals that contain correspondingly own specific identification data. The
beacon 56 thus can have two or also several specific identification data, which correspondingly are
emitted in radio signals that are independent of each other. Therein the radio signals, of course,
can contain the respective specific identification data in data formats that are independent of each
other.
This embodiment allows for configuring each individual virtual beacon largely independently, in
particular fully independently of each other, for instance whilst using a respective specific
application or app. In this connection preferably every one of the virtual beacons is essentially
freely configurable. For instance a radio signal content, such as for instance the UUID or the like, a
transmission power, a transmission interval, an encoding and/or the like, can be freely chosen.
Moreover, this embodiment also allows for using additionally different radio protocols or radio
standards, which can be assigned to the respective radio signals of the virtual beacons. Also
combinations hereof can be envisaged so that for instance combinations of known beacon
protocols with each other can be formed, for instance a combination of iBeacon, Eddiestone,
AltBeacon and/or further protocols.
Particularly advantageous it may be envisaged that a computing program, for instance software or
firmware or the like, is specifically envisaged for respective individual virtual beacons. The
computing unit can update the respective software program, which is assigned to the respective
virtual beacon, in this connection preferably independently of the remaining virtual beacons.
According to a further development it may be envisaged that different cryptography methods can
be used for the individual virtual beacons in order to for instance restrict an access for certain
communication terminals or applications or apps to certain signals. In this way for instance also
access authorizations for updating computing programs or parts hereof can be regulated.
In further developments of the afore-mentioned embodiments it may be envisaged that the
transmission devices or beacons comprise an optional communication interface. The
communication interface can serve for instance for configuring the transmission device or the
beacon, for instance by way of selecting a protocol, and/or for adjusting the transmission devices
or beacons amongst each other, for instance with regard to transmission intervals and/or the like,
and/or with other transmission devices or beacons in adjacently arranged lighting devices. Therein
it can be envisaged that a communication is effected via a wireless data network, for instance in
the manner of a mesh network or the like. Further it can be envisaged that a communication is
9682081_1 (GHMatters) P107317.AU

                                                      22
effected via an existing communication interface of the lighting device 12, for instance via a light
management system, a DALI (digital addressable lighting interface) bus and/or the like. Further, a
communication can be effected also via a separate radio channel or a radio technology, such as
for instance BLE, ZigBee, WLAN and/or the like. Finally, also the possibility exists to envisage a
communication via a combined energy and communication interface, such as for instance Power
over Ethernet or the like.
The embodiments merely serve for explanation of the invention and are not meant to limit it.
 In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention, except where the
context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the word "comprise"
or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the
presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or addition of further features in
various embodiments of the invention.
 It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to herein, such reference does not
constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the common general knowledge in the
art, in Australia or any other country.
9682081_1 (GHMatters) P107317.AU

                                                          23
                                                 LIST OF REFERENCES
   10                 lighting system
   12                 lighting device
   14                 illumination device
   16                 beacon
   18                 signal section
   22                 infrastructure device
   24                 communication link
   26                 communication link
   28                 control unit
   30                 computing unit
   32                 storage unit
   34                 communication terminal
   36                 light
   38                 communication link
   40                 router
   42                 communication link
   44                 radio unit
   46                 radio unit
   48                 signal section
   50                 mains supply
   52                 beacon
   54                 radio units
   56                 beacon
   58                 signal section
   60                 energy transmission channel
   62                 illumination device
   64                 energy interface
   66                 ballast
   68                 light-emitting diode arrangement
   70                 energy transmission channel
   72                 energy interface
9682081_1 (GHMatters) P107317.AU

                                                  24
   74                 energy transmission channel
   76                 beacon
   78                 radio signal
9682081_1 (GHMatters) P107317.AU

                                                     25
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS
1. Method for operation of a transmission device (44, 46, 52, 56) of a lighting device (12)
comprising an illumination device (62), wherein the transmission device (44, 46, 52, 56) is
arranged in or immediately on the illumination device (62) and wirelessly emits a radio signal (18,
48, 58) with identification data that are specific to the transmission device (44, 46, 52, 56),
characterized in that
the radio signal (18, 48, 58) is emitted according to exactly one predetermined radio standard,
wherein the radio signal (18, 48, 58) contains the specific identification data in at least two data
formats that are different from each other.
2. Method according to claim 1,
characterized in that the radio signal (18, 48, 58) is temporally subdivided into a number of
subsequent signal sections, wherein the number of signal sections corresponds at least to a
number of the data formats that are different from each other, wherein each data format is
assigned at least one of the signal sections.
3. Method according to claim 2,
characterized in that
a period of time for a respective one of the signal sections depends on the respective assigned
data format.
4. Method according to claim 2 or 3,
characterized in that
the data format assigned to every signal section is provided by a respective formatting unit of the
transmission device (44, 46, 52, 56) that is adjusted to the respective data format.
5. Method according to any one of claims 2 to 4,
characterized in that
upon reaching a temporal end of the period of time of the first one of the signal sections
automatically a providing of the specific identification data according to a data format assigned to a
second signal section is triggered, which second signal section immediately follows the first signal
section.
6. Method according to any one of claims 2 to 5,
characterized in that
9682081_1 (GHMatters) P107317.AU

                                                    26
each signal section is emitted by an own respective radio unit (54) of the transmission device (44,
46, 52, 56) that is assigned to the respective signal section.
7. Method according to claim 6,
characterized in that
at least between the radio units (54) of the transmission device (52) there exists a communication
link.
8. Method according to claim 6 or 7,
characterized in that
only the one of the radio units (54) assigned to a respective active signal section in each case is
provided with electrical energy.
9. Method according to any one of claims 6 to 8,
characterized in that
at least two of the signal sections of a single radio unit (54) are emitted, which signal sections
contain the specific identification data in two data formats that are different from each other.
10. Method according to claim 9,
characterized in that
the radio unit (54) is adjusted with regard to a number of signal sections to be provided and/or the
data formats assigned to the respective signal sections.
11. Method according to any one of the preceding claims,
characterized in that
the radio signal is emitted at least into a region, which is illuminated by means of the lighting device
(12) comprising the transmission device (44, 46, 52, 56) in the intended operating lighting mode.
12. Method according to any one of the preceding claims,
characterized in that
the emitting of the radio signal (18, 48, 58) is repeated in a predetermined time interval.
13. Method according to any one of the preceding claims,
characterized in that
9682081_1 (GHMatters) P107317.AU

                                                    27
the transmission device (44, 46, 52, 56) by means of a receiving unit receives a terminal signal of a
communication terminal, determines its data format, and emits the radio signal (18, 48, 58) with the
specific identification data according to the determined data format.
14. Method according to claim 13,
characterized in that
the determined data format is compared with the data formats and the determined data format is
assigned one of the signal sections.
15. Lighting device (12) with a transmission device (44, 46, 52, 56) and an illumination device (62),
wherein the transmission device (44, 46, 52, 56) is arranged in or immediately on the illumination
device (62) and is configured to wirelessly emit a radio signal (18, 48, 58) with identification data
that are specific to the transmission device (44, 46, 52, 56),
characterized in that
the transmission device (44, 46, 52, 56) further is configured to emit the radio signal (18, 48, 58)
according to precisely one predetermined radio standard, wherein the radio signal (18, 48, 58)
contains the specific identification data in at least two data formats which are different from each
other.
9682081_1 (GHMatters) P107317.AU

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
