                                                      ABSTRACT
  The poesent invention provides an aqueous solution evaporative txatment method that makes it possible to
  efficiently perfori evaporative txatment of an aqueous solution containing calcium, magnesium, and silica. The
5 aqueous solution evaporative txatment method comprises a seed crystal mixing step of adding to and mixing with
  an aqueous solution containing calcium, magnesium, and silica at least any one of magnesium salt and silicate
  together with calcium salt as seed crystals, and an evaporative concentration step ofevaporatively concentrating the
  aqueous solution together with the seed crystals.

                                        BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
               The present application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2014201764, the
    entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
   [0001]      1.Field ofthe Invention
                                                                                                        solution, and more
 5             The present invention relates to an evaporative treatment method for an aqueous
   specifically, relates to an aqueous solution evaporative treatment method in which an aqueous solution containing
   calcium, magnesium, and silica is evaporatedby indiet heating
   [0002]      2.Description ofthe RelatedAit
               When evaporating an aqueous solution containing impurities such as calcium by indimect heating, scale
                                                                                        coefficient is likely to deteriorate.
10 builds up on the heat transfer surface of a heat exchanger, and the heat transfer
   Accordingly, to date, measures to addoss this phenomenon have been investigated. For example, Patent
   Document 1 discloses a waste water treatment method in which sodium carbonate is added to waste water
   containing calcium and sulfuric acid to precipitate the calcium contained in the waste water as crystals of calcium
   caibonate, and then the waste water is concentratedthioughboiling/evaporationby indiet heating.
15 [0003]      Patent Document 1: JP-A2006-305541
                                            SUMMARYOF THE INVENTION
   [0004]      Although the aforementioned waste water treatment method is effective when the impurity contained in
                                                                                            surface becomes problematic
20 waste water is calcium, theme is still a concern that scale buildup on the heat transfer
   when magnesium and silica other than calcium are contained. Accoidingly, a complex process for removing
   magnesium and silica is separatelymrquid,m sulting in an inease intmeatment cost.
   [0005]      Therefore, an object of the present invention is to provide an aqueous solution evaporative treatment
   method that makes it possible to efficiently perform evaporative txatment of an aqueous solution containing
                                silica.
25 calcium, magnesium, and
   [0006]      The foregoing object of the present invention is achieved by an evaporative treatment method for an
   aqueous solution, comprising a seed crystal mixing step of adding to and mixing with an aqueous solution
   containing calcium, magnesium, and silica at least any one of magnesium salt and silicate together with calcium
   salt as seed crystals, and an evaporative concentration step of evaporatively concentrating the aqueous solution
30 togetherwiththeseedcrystals.
                                                               1
    (8475140_1) :RTK

   [0007]      It is preferable for this aqueous solution evaporative treatment method that the seed crystals contained in
   a concentrated liquid piduced in the evaporative concentration step are used in the next seed crystal mixing step.
   [0008]       The seed crystals can contain crystals ofmagnesium silicate as the magnesium salt as well as the silicate.
   Also, the seed crystals can contain crystals ofcalcium caibonate as the calcium salt
 5 [0009]      In the seed crystal mixing step, it is possible that magnesium salt that is highly soluble in an aqueous
   solution containing calcium and silica is added to piduce the aqueous solution containing calcium, magnesium,
   and silica, andthenthe seed crystals am added. Thatis to say, itis preferable that when thereis ashotage ofsaltions
   that piduce the silicate, soluble salts that supplement such salt ions are added.
   [0010]      Moreover, it is preferable that the method fuither comprises a petmatment step of concentrating the
10 aqueous solution using amrverse osmosis membrane, which isperformedbefore the seed crystal mixing step.
   [0011]      Accoiding to the pmesent invention, an aqueous solution evaporative treatment method that makes it
   possible to efficiently perfon evaporative treatment of an aqueous solution containing calcium, magnesium, and
   silica can be provided.
15                                      BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   [0012]      HG 1 is a schematic configurational diagram ofan evaporative treatment apparatus used for an aqueous
   solution evaporative treatment method according to one embodiment ofthe present invention.
               HG 2 is a schematic configurational diagram ofan evaporative treatment apparatus used for an aqueous
20 solution evaporative treatment method according to another embodiment ofthe present invention.
                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
   [0013]      Below, one embodiment of the pmesent invention will now be described with efemnce to the attached
25 drawings. HG 1 is a schematic configurational diagram of an evaporative treatment apparatus used for an aqueous
   solution evaporative treatment method according to one embodiment ofthe present invention. As shown in FIG 1,
   an evaporative treatment apparatus 1 includes a reservoir tank 10 in which an aqueous solution to be treated is
   stomed and an evaporative concentration device 20 to which the aqueous solution is supplied fom the reservoir tank
    10.
30 [0014]       The reservoir tank 10 includes a stiner 12, and an aqueous solution supplied fiom an aqueous solution
   supply line 13 and seed crystals supplied fiom a seed crystal tank 14 by the operation of an inection pump 15 ae
                                                               2
    (8475140 1) :RTK

   uniformly mixed inside the reservoir tank 10.
   [0015]      The evaporative concentration device 20 is a falling film type in which the fluid evaporates on the outer
   surface of a tube, and includes a heat exchanger 21 that has heat exchanger tubes 21a horizontally positioned in an
   evaporator 20a and a spraying nozzle 23 that sprays an aqueous solution onto the surface of the heat exchanger
 5 tubes21a. Steam produced in the evaporator 20a is composed by a compmessor24 to have high temperatume and
   high pessu, introduced into the heat exchanger tubes 21a to be used for heating the aqueous solution, and then
   discharged as condensed water from a condensed liquid discharge tube 25. The aqueous solution stored in the
   bottom of the evaporator 20a is repeatedly sprayed fiom the spraying nozzle 23 by the operation of a cioulating
   pump 22. The concentrated liquid concentrated in the evaporator 20a is introduced into a solid-liquid separator 30
10 by the operation of a switching valve 26, and seed crystals are thus separated and discharged to the outside. The
   separated seed crystals ae retumed to the seed crystal tank 14 and used. The solid-liquid separator 30 can be, for
   example, a centrifigation type, a filter type, or a sedimentation type, or may be a combination ofsuch types.
   [0016]      The configurtion of the evaporative concentration device 20 is not particularly limited, and, for
   example, the heat exchanger tubes 21a may be a vertical type instead of a horizontal type. Moreover, for the
15 heating medium that travels inside the heat exchanger tubes 21a, a separate heating medium may be intiuduced
   fiom outside instead of using a heating medium obtained by mechanical vapor mecompression as in this
   embodiment Also, the evaporative concentration device 20 can be configured to be a multiple-stage type by
   arranging the evaporator20a as a multi-effect evaporator as necessary.
   [0017]      Ne4 a method for performing evaporative txatment of an aqueous solution using the above-described
20 evaporative treatment apparatus 1 will now be described. An aqueous solution supplied fiom the aqueous solution
   supply line 13 to the reservoir tank 10 is not particularly limited as long as it contains calcium, magnesium, and
   silica, and examples include, in addition to waste liquids generated in factories and similar facilities, contaminated
   water generated during mining ofnatural gas such as coal seam gas and shale gas, underIund hot water used for
   geothennal power generation, and the like. The concentrations of calcium, magnesium, and silica a= also not
25 particularly limited, but the method is paiticularly effective when thee a= such concentrations that scale buildup in
   the evaporative concentration device 20 is problematic. For example, the silica concentration of the aqueous
   solution supplied to the reservoir tank 10 is preferably 50 ppm or higher. This is because, in evaporative
   concentration, the aqueous solution is usually concentrated about 4 to 10 fold, and, therefore, even when the silica
   concentration is 50 ppm, the concentration reaches 200 to 500 ppm in the evaporative concentration device 20,
30 possibly posing silica scale problems. The calcium and magnesium concentrations in the aqueous solution are
   preferably higher than, for example, 10 ppm.
                                                                3
    (8475140 1) :RTK

   [0018]       Seed crystals accomodated in the seed crystal tank 14 am crystals of salts containing calcium,
   magnesium, and silica (calcium salt magnesium salt and silicate) that am components ofthe aqueous solution. If
   the components of scale that will build up on the heat exchanger 21 or the like in the evaporative concentration
   device 20 am apparnt beforehand, it is pmferable to use, as seed crystals, crystals of the same compounds as the
 5 afommentioned components, but the seed crystals do not necessarily have to be of the same compounds as the
   scale components as long as they am compounds containing calcium, magnesium, and silica. Seed crystals in a
   pa11icle forin am usable as-is, or those in a sluny forn in which crystals am dispersed in water or the like am usable
   as well.
   [0019]       The calcium salt, magnesium salt, and silicate that serve as seed crystals may be compounds different
10 fiom each other, or some or all may be the same compound. In this embodiment, calcium caibonate serves as the
   calcium salt, and magnesium silicate serves as the magnesium salt as well as the silicate. Seed crystals containing
   calcium caibonate and magnesium silicate am for using, as seed crystals, the same compounds as compounds that
   may become scale components when rating the aqueous solution generated during mining of coal seam gas,
   shale gas, etc., and am themfore particularly suitable for this application.
15 [0020]      Magnesium and silica contained in the aqueous solution readily bind to each other and readily become
   scale components in the forin of silica magnesium or the like, and it is preferable that magnesium silicate
   (MgO)n-(SiO2)m) is contained as seed crystals as stated above, but each may be a separate compound such as a
   magnesium salt and a silicate. Examples ofthe magnesium salt include magnesium oxide, magnesium hydroxide,
   magnesium caibonate, magnesium sulfite, and a combination of two or morn of these. Examples of the silicate
20 include calcium silicate, calcium magnesium silicate, and the like, and, fuithenmorm, when metal ions or the like
   other than calcium, magnesium, and silica am contained in the aqueous solution, the silicate may be a compound
   fonned with such ions (such as aluminum silicate or calcium aluminum silicate). Fuithenmore, it is not necessary
   that the magnesium salt and the silicate that serve as seed crystals have to be contained both at the same time, and it
   is possible to use either one independently. For example, when silica is contained in laige amounts in an aqueous
25 solution, silicate seed crystals am not necessarily needed, and addition ofmagnesium oxide as seed crystals makes it
   possible to growmagnesium silicate crystals by taking advantage ofsilica in the aqueous solution.
   [0021]      It is preferable that the calcium salt that serves as seed crystals is suitably detenninedin consideration of
   the components contained inthe aqueous solution For example, when the amount ofcaibonate ion components
   contained inthe aqueous solution is small and the amount of sulfate ions contained therein is laige, it is preferable to
30 use calcium sulfate in place ofcalcium caibonate as seed crystals. Examples of other calcium salts include calcium
   oxide, calcium hydroxide, calcium silicate, and a combination oftwo or more ofthese.
                                                                  4
    (8475140_1) :RTK

   [0022]       In the reservoir tank 10, seed crystals are added to an aqueous solution and unifonrily stirod, and thus
   the seed crystals, serving as nuclei, allow calcium, magnesium, and silica compounds contained inthe aqueous
   solution to undergo crystal growth. The amount of seed crystals supplied fium the seed crystal tank 14 to the
   reservoir tank 10 is preferably an amount sufficient for promoting seed crystal gwth without impaiing the
 5 flowability ofthe aqueous solution. In the reservoir tank 10, the pH may be adjusted by suitably adding apH
   adjuster. The present invention aims to make scale components grow into seed crystals, and therefore, for example,
   inthe case where only the silica concentration in an aqueous solution greatly exceeds the degree of solubility
   whemeas the magnesium concentration is nearly zeio, itis preferable to add a soluble magnesium salt (such as
   magnesium chloride) that is diffemnt fom seed crystals to the aqueous solution in oider to attain an appiopriate
10 magnesium ion concentration. The amount ofthe magnesium salt may be about equimolar to silica. Due to such
   an operation, it is possible, when magnesium silicate is added as seed crystals, to make silica originally contained in
   an aqueous solution gow into crystals ofmagnesium silicate together with the added magnesium, and itis possible
   to effectively poevent generation of silica scale inthe evaporative concentration device 20 at the latter stage.
   [0023]       Theeafter, opening the supply valve 17 allows the aqueous solution to be supplied fium the reservoir
15 tank 10 to the evaporative concentration device 20, and evaporative concentration ofthe seed crystal-containing
   aqueous solution is perfonned. Inthe aqueous solution to be supplied to the evaporative concentration device 20,
   compounds of calcium, magnesium, and silica that are scale components undergo crystal growth inthe reservoir
   tank 10, with seed crystals serving as nuclei. Therefoxe, even when the concentration of scale components is
   increased due to the evaporative concentration ofthe aqueous solution inthe evaporative concentration device 20
20 and exceeds the scale production thmishold, due to the precipitation ofscale components with the existing seed
   crystals serving as nuclei, generation ofnew nuclei is suppressed, and it is thus possible to prevent scale buildup on
   theheatexchanger21.
   [0024]       A concentrated liquid concentrated inthe evaporative concentration device 20 is introduced into the
   solid-liquid separator 30 due to the operation ofthe switching valve 26. In the solid-liquid separator 30, seed
25 crystals with a laige particle size that have undergone crystal growth are separatedby centifugation or precipitation
   in a settling tank and, after inpurity removal by washing or the like, are supplied to the seed crystal tank 14.
   Therefore, even inthe case where laige amounts ofseed crystals are suppliedto the meservoirtank 10, most ofthe
   seed crystals are recovered and canbe used for the next seed crystal gowth inthe reservoir tank 10, and it is thus
   possible to achieve high economical efficiency
30 [0025]       Although it is also possible to continuously supply the aqueous solution fom the reservoir tank 10 to the
   evaporative concentration device 20 while the evaporative concentration device 20 is in operation, it is preferable to
                                                                5
    (8475140 1) :RTK

   supply the aqueous solution in a batch-wise mannerinwhich the aqueous solution is supplied after the concentrated
   liquid piduced in the evaporative concentration device 20 is completely dischaigedto the outside. Moreover, it is
   preferable that after seed crystals are added to the reservoir tank 10, the aqueous solution is stined and left to stand
   stilluntil seed crystal growth hin the reservoir tank 10 terminates, and then supplied to the evaporative concentration
 5 device 20 to initiate evaporative concentration. It is thereby possible to gow crystals on seed crystals in the
   evaporative concentration device 20, and to more reliablypoevent scale buildup on the heat exchanger 21 and the
   like.
   [0026]       As shown in FIG 2, apotmatment device 40 for concentrating beforehand the aqueous solution to be
   suppliedto the rservoirtank 10 may be provided ontheupstreamside ofthe rservoirtank 10 to supply brine
10 (concentrated liquid) ofthe poetmatment device 40 to the reservoir tank 10. The potmatment device 40 is not
   particularly limited, and examples include anRO (reveise osmosis membrane) treatment device, anion exchange
   treatment device, a combination ofsuch devices, and the like. In FIG 2, the same components as in FIG 1 ame
   giventhesame ofemncenumbers.
   [0027]       The use ofan ion exchange treatment device as the potmatiment device 40 requires amrgenerant for
15 generation ofa resin, and especially when the aqueous solution contains considerableNa ions, a laige amount of
   megenerant is discharged, and treatment in which a solarpond or the like is used becomes toublesome. Themefoeit
   is preferable to not perform ion exchange treatment but perform only RO treatment when liquid disposal can be
   problematic.
   [0028]       When perfonning RO teatment, acid may be inected for pH control in oider to prevent scale problems
20 of a membrane as in an ordinary seawater desalination process. However, when considerable carbonate ions are
   contained in the aqueous solution, the acid injection method is not suitable, and, therefore, it is preferable in this case
   to set the recovery rate of the membrane (flow rate of permeated liquid/flow rate of aqueous solution) at such a
   small value (for example, 80% or less) that scale problems of the membrane can be povented. The recovery rate
   ofthe membrane canbe set at a desired value by suitably controlling the flow rate ofblowdown ofthe poetreatment
25 device40 whereROtmatmentisperfomed.
   [0029]       The evaporative treatment apparatus 1 of this embodiment can effectively poevent scale buildup on the
   heat exchanger tubes in the evaporative concentration device 20 by adding seed crystals to the reservoir tank 10,
   and therefore a high recovery rate is not particularly mequimed ofthe potmatment device 40. That is, a combination
   of RO treatment and evaporative concentration treatment that is perfonned after seed crystal mixing makes it
30 possible to more efficiently perform evaporative treatment of an aqueous solution without deterioition ofthe ability
   ofROtmatment causedbyscale problems.
                                                                 6
    (8475140 1) :RTK

   [0030]      When sodium carbonate, NaCl, and the like are contained in the aqueous solution, itispreferable to set
   the concentration rate ofthe evaporative concentration device 20 to such an extent that these salts do not precipitate
   in the evaporative concentration device 20. When sodium carbonate, NaCl, and the like in the aqueous solution are
   mecovem-d, it is possible that the aqueous solution that has traveled though the solid-liquid separator 30 is
 5 evaporatively concentrated to remove sodium carbonate crystals and then the aqueous solution is fuither
   evaporatively concentratedto remove crystals ofNaCl and the like.
   [0031]      Example 1
               As Example 1,an evaporative treatment apparatus 1having the same configuration as FIG 1was used
   to perform txatment on an aqueous solution composed ofsimulated liquid coal seam gas having the components
10 shown in Table 1below. Two types ofseed crystals, ie., CaCO3 and (MgO)-3(SiO 2 ),were used each in an amount
   of2 kg/ 3 . Seed crystals were added to the aqueous solution in a reservoir tank 10 and constantly stined to thus
   form a uniform sluny, and the sluny was supplied to an evaporative concentration device 20 to perfon
   evaporative concentrtion. In the evaporative concentration device 20, 126 heat exchanger tubes 21a each having
   an outer diameter of 19 mm and a length of 460 mm were used. Inthe evaporative concentration device 20, the
15 evaporation temperatumc was 720 C, the evaporation amount was 38 kg/h, the concentration rate was 11 fold, and
   the duration ofoperation was 28 days. Then, there was no scale buildup on the heat exchanger tubes 21a, and
   deterioration ofheat transfer coefficient was not observed.
   [0032]      Table 1
        Na             Ca             Mg              Cl             K          HCO3            C               SiO
      18,000           80              38          12,000           110       6,000x103        1,900             78
                                                                                                                 (mg/L)
20 [0033]      Comparative Example 1
               On the other hand, as Compartive Example 1, evaporative concentration was performed on an
   aqueous solution under the same conditions as in Example 1except that only CaCQ was used as seed crystals in
   an amount of 2 kg/m3 . Then, scale buildup on the heat exchanger tubes 21a was observed 14 days after the
   beginning of operation, and the heat transfer coefficient decreased to 800%.ofthe value obtained immediately after
25 the beginning of operation. It was not possible to remove the built-up scale by acid cleaning alone, and alkali
   cleaning was necessary, thus suggesting the possibility ofsilica magnesium scale.
   [0034]      Example2
               As Example 2, an evaporative treatment apparatus 1having the same configuration as FIG 2 was used
   to perform txatment on an aqueous solution composed ofsimulated liquid coal seam gas having the components
                                                             7
    (8475140 1) :RTK

   shown in Table 2 below An RO tixatment device ("SW301R"manufactued by Dow Chemical Company) was
   used for a petmatment device 40, and the recovery rate of the aqueous solution supplied at 10000 m3/day to the
   petatment device 40 was set at 80% (i.e., the amount ofbrine supplied to an reservoir tank 10 was 2000 m3/day).
   Moreover, the concentration rate in the evaporative concentration device 20 was set at 9.5 fold, being near the limit
 5 at which precipitation of sodium carbonate crystals does not occur (i.e., the amount of blowdown was 2000
   (m3/day) / 9.5 = 210 (m3/day)). Other conditions were the same as in Example 1. The test        revealed that there was
   no scale buildup on the heat exchanger tubes 21a, and deterioration ofheat transfer coefficient was not observed.
   [0035]      [Table 2]
        Na              Ca            Mg              Cl            K           HCO3             C                SiO
       2,500            12             10           3,000           15            860            350               22
                                                                                                                   (mg/L)
10 [0036]      Comparative Example 2
               On the other hand, as Comparative Example 2, a test was caned out using for the petmcatment device
   40 an ion exchange txatment device (WK40, weakly acidic cationic oesin manufaictuoed by Mitsubishi Chemical
   Corporation) and an RO tixatment device as used in Example 1 without adding seed crystals to the reservoir tank
   10. Since the formulation ofthe aqueous solution is the same as in Example 2 (Table 2) and it is possible to remove
15 Ca and Mg by the ion exchange txatment device, the mcovery rate ofthe RO txatment device was set at 90%,
   which is higherthanthat inExample 2 (ie., the amount ofbrine suppliedto the meservoirtank 10 was 1000 m3/day).
   Moreover, the concentration rate in the evaporative concentration device 20 was set at 4.75 fold at which the
   amount ofblowdown was identical to Example 2. In order to prevent scale problems in the RO tixatment device, a
   slica scale inhibitor was used in an amount of 10 mg per liter of the aqueous solution. Other conditions were the
20 same as Example 2,and the testrvealedthatneither Ca nor Mg scale buildup ontheheat exchanger tubes21awas
   observed, but there was slight silica scale buildup. Moreover, other than the blowdown (210 m3/day), a megenerant
   of the ion exchange treatment device was generated as a waste liquid (32.5 m3/day), resulting in a waste liquid
   increase.
   [0037]       1          Evaporative tiatment apparatus
25              10         Storagetank
                14         Seedcrystaltank
               20          Evaporative concentration device
               21          Heatexchanger
               21a         Heat exchangertube
                                                            8
    (8475140 1) :RTK

         30      Solid-liquid separtor
         40      Pneatment device
                                       9
(8475140_1) :RTK

   CLAIMS
    1.        An evaporative tmatment method for an aqueous solution, composing
               a seed crystal mixing step of adding to and mixing with an aqueous solution containing calcium,
   magnesium, and silica at least any one ofmagnesium salt and silicate together with calcium salt as seed crystals,
 5 and
               an evaporative concentration step ofevaporatively concentrating the aqueous solution together with the
   seed crystals.
   2.          The evaporative txatment method for an aqueous solution accoiding to claim 1,wherein the seed
   crystals contained in a concentrated liquid piduced inthe evaporative concentration step are used inthe next seed
10 crystalming step.
   3.          The evaporative txatment method for an aqueous solution according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the
   seed crystals contain crystals ofmagnesium silicate.
   4.          The evaporative txatment method for an aqueous solution according to any one of claims 1 to 3,
   whemeintheseedcrystals containcrystalsofcalciumcabonate.
15 5.          The evaporative txatment method for an aqueous solution according to any one of claims 1 to 4,
   whemein inthe seed crystal mixing step, magnesium salt that is highly soluble in an aqueous solution containing
   calcium and silica is added to piduce the aqueous solution containing calcium, magnesium, and silica, and then
   the seed crystals are added.
   6.          The evaporative tixatment method for an aqueous solution according to any one of claims 1 to 5,fiuiher
20 comprising apoetmatment step of concentrating the aqueous solution using amrveise osmosis membrane, which is
   performedbefore the seed crystal mixing step.
                                              SasakuraEngineering Co., Ltd.
                                 Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                               SPRUSON& FERGUSON
25
                                                            10
    (8475140 1) :RTK

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    Fig.1
                            1/2

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    Fig.2
                            2/2

