   ABSTRACT:
   A vertical curtain tensioning system for use with a vehicle load carrying space, in which a
   curtain (24) is movable between an open position to access said load carrying space and a closed
   position to secure said load carrying space, said system enabling said curtain (24) to remain taut
 5 to secure said load carrying space and including member means (2, 3) adapted to move between
   a first position and a second position, said member means (2, 3) having an engagement means
   (7) for engaging a retaining means (8) associated with said curtain (24), wherein in said first
   position said member means (2, 3) is disengaged from said retaining means (8) and in said
   second position said engagement means (7) engages the retaining means (8) to keep the curtain
to (24) vertically tensioned.
                                                    12

SL
                           VERTICAL CURTAIN TENSIONING SYSTEM
   Field of the Invention
           This invention relates to a vertical curtain tensioning system, and more particularly to a
 5 vertical curtain tensioning system for a vehicle or trailer having storage space that can be
   enclosed with at least one curtain along the sides of the vehicle or trailer.
   Background of the Invention
           The transport of cargo often occurs in a vehicle with a rigid body or on a trailer which
10 has a curtain on at least one side of the vehicle body or trailer. In existing vehicles of this type,
   either gates are utilized for securing the load during transportation or curtains are used that have
   a plurality of load restraint straps along the horizontal length of the curtain. Usually a curtain is
   located on each side of the vehicle body or trailer and each curtain contains a buckle or series of
   buckles along a lower edge which are used to fasten or unfasten the curtain. Presently, it is
15 necessary to fasten or unfasten all buckles individually on each curtain before the curtain can
   secure the cargo or before the curtain can be retracted for access to the cargo carrying storage
   area. This is inconvenient to an operator and takes a lot of time and energy. Also the buckles
   and corresponding straps can wear and corrode over time.
           Furthermore, there are occupational health and safety issues with regard to the fingers of
20 the operator when opening or closing the curtain, such that the fingers can be pinched in the
   buckle fastening or unfastening process, thereby injuring the operator.
           The present invention aims to keep each of the curtains taut during transportation of
   goods on the vehicle body or on the vehicle trailer. The present invention seeks to overcome at
   least one of the above disadvantages.
25
   Summary of the Invention
           According to an aspect of the invention, there is provided a vertical curtain tensioning
   system for use with a vehicle load carrying space, in which a curtain is movable between an open
   position to access said load carrying space and a closed position to secure said load carrying
                                                       2

     space, said system enabling said curtain to remain taut to secure said load carrying space and
     including:
              member means adapted to move between a first position and a second position;
               said member means having an engagement means for engaging a retaining means
  5  associated with said curtain;
              wherein in said first position said member means is disengaged from said retaining means
     and in said second position said engagement means engages the retaining means to keep the
     curtain vertically tensioned.
              Preferably said member means includes a first member and a second member, said first
 10  member and said second member connected to one another to enable relative movement between
     said first member and said second member.
              The member means may be actuated by an actuator means to move said member means
     between said first position and the second position. The first member preferably has a slot and
     said engagement means, wherein further a securing means moves within said slot when said
 15 member means moves between said first and second positions.
              In an embodiment, the retaining means has a loop or step that has an opening into which
     said engagement means moves, prior to engaging said loop or step to position the member means
    in said second position and after disengaging with said loop or step to position the member
    means in said first position. The loop or step may have a bar with which said engagement means
20  engages to keep said curtain taut in said closed position.
             In moving from said first position to said second position, the engagement means of said
    first member can be actuated to move towards said retaining means whilst being above said
    retaining means and then downwardly towards said retaining means to thereafter have the
    engagement means engage the retaining means and said engagement means forcing the retaining
25  means inwardly to tauten the curtain in said closed position.
             The first and second members may be connected at a connection point by a further
    securing means and are each articulated for movement with respect to one another. Preferably a
    distal end of said second member, remote from said connection point, is linked to the actuator
    means and secured to a mounting bracket. Threngagement means is preferably located at a
30  distal end of said first member and said securing means is affixed to a mounting means such that
                                                       3

   the slot moves with respect to the securing means when the member means moves between said
   first and said second positions. In said first position the member means can be disengaged from
   the retaining means and is so positioned to not impede movement of the curtain sideways when
   opening or closing said curtain. The system may further include means for keeping the
 5 engagement means engaged with the retaining means.
            The system may further include a plurality of said member means located along the
   length of said load carrying space, each of said member means adapted to engage a
   corresponding one of a plurality of retaining means to tauten said curtain.
            Preferably the curtain is tensioned horizontally so as to align each retaining means with a
10 corresponding member means of said vertical curtain tensioning system.
           According to a further aspect of the invention, there is provided a vertical curtain
   tensioning system for use with a vehicle load carrying space, in which a curtain is movable
   between an open position to access said load carrying space and a closed position to secure said
   load carrying space, said system enabling said curtain to remain taut to secure said load carrying
15 space and including:
            a series of respective member means adapted to move between a first position and a
   second position;
           wherein each of said member means has an engagement means for engaging a respective
   retaining means of a series of retaining means associated with said curtain;
20         wherein in said first position each of said member means is disengaged from said
   respective retaining means and in said second position the corresponding engagement means
   engages the respective retaining means to keep the curtain vertically tensioned.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
25         A preferred embodiment of the invention will be described hereinafter, by way of
   example only, with reference to the drawings in which:
           Figure 1 is a perspective view from the side and above of a vertical tensioning system in
   accordance with the present invention;
           Figure 2 is a side view of the system shown in Figure 1;
                                                      4

              Figure 3 is a side view of the system shown in a position between a first rest or
     disengaged position of Figures 1 and 2 and an engaged position;
              Figure 4 is a side view of the system shown in the engaged position such that the curtain
     is fully taut;
  5           Figure 5 is a reverse side view to Figure 4 showing the system in the engaged position;
              Figure 6 is a further side view showing the system in an open unlocked position; and
              Figure 7 is a further side view showing the system in a closed or fully engaged position.
    Detailed Description of the Preferred Embodiment
 to           Referring to Figures 1 and 2 there is shown a vertical curtain tensioning system 1, for use
    with a load carrying space of a vehicle, which has a member means including a first member 2
    and a second member 3 with the first and second members 2 and 3 being connected to one
    another at connection or pivot point 15 through a first securing means 11, in the form of a nut
    and bolt. A first end 20 (not shown) of first member 2 and a first end 26 of second member 3 are
 [5 joined at a connection point 15 for relative articulated movement of first member 2 and second
    member 3 with respect to one another. The other second end 16 of member 3 is joined to a first
    mounting bracket 5 through a swivel bar 12, which, in turn, is connected to an actuator (not
    shown). The first member 2 has a first bend 17 and a second bend 18, with a slot 9 located
    between the first and second bends or elbows. Towards the other end of the first member 2, that
20  is, beyond the second bend 18, there is located an engagement means 7 for engaging a retaining
    means 8 located at the bottom of curtain 24 (Figure 6). The first member 2 is connected to a
    second mounting bracket 6 through a second securing means 10 in the form of a bolt and nut
    with the securing means 10 sliding or adapted to slide within the slot or channel 9 as the first and
    second members 2 and 3 move between a first position and a second position. Both of the
25  mounting brackets 5 and 6 (which can be formed as a single bracket) are welded or otherwise
    secured to a cross-bearer 4 which is positioned laterally underneath the vehicle and connects to a
    vehicle combing 14 on each side of the vehicle or trailer. The curtain 24 is movable between an
    open position to access the load carrying space, such that the member means is in a first,
    disengaged position from the retaining means 8, and a closed position to secure the load carrying
30  space in which the member means is a second, engaged position with respect to the retaining
                                                       5

   means 8, so as to keep the curtain 24 vertically tensioned and therefore stiff to retain any goods
   carried in the load carrying space.
           The second end 16 of the member 3, remote from connection point 15, is able to pivot
   about a connection 25 between the first mounting bracket 5 and the swivel bar 12 or swivel
 5 around the swivel bar 12. The swivel bar 12 is mounted along the length of the body of the
   vehicle or the length of the trailer and at least along the length of the curtain. It is rotated or
   driven by a separate mechanism or lever located at another part of the vehicle body and in turn
   this mechanism is controlled or operated through a control panel mounted to the body of the
   vehicle. This separate control means may be a ratchet arm, a control panel or a latch that is
10 utilised to drive, for example, a linear actuator or a geared linkage to engage or disengage the
   first and second members 2, 3, in accordance with what is known in the art. The mounting
   brackets 5 and 6 hold the system 1 in place underneath the vehicle and helps align the placement
   of the first member 2 in a gap 19 existing between the vehicle combing 14 and tie rail 13 as seen
   in Figure 1. Rotation of the swivel bar 12 in an anti-clockwise direction shown in Figure 1
15 forces the second member 3 to move upwardly as seen in Figure 3. As it does this, the first
   member 2 also moves upwardly while the second securing means 10 moves within the slot 9. As
   this happens the engagement means 7 moves outwardly first and then downwardly to be located
   in the gap or opening 19 provided by the retaining means 8. The retaining means 8 is in the form
   of a loop or step which is located at the bottom of the curtain 24 on the side of the vehicle, the
20 step or bar 21 protruding inwardly towards the underneath side of the vehicle body or trailer.
   Where a heavier-duty system is required, as many member means 2, 3 and retaining means 8
   connected to the bottom of the curtain 24 (forming the system 1) can be used along the whole
   length of the vehicle trailer or the vehicle body. Generally the retaining means 8 are spaced
   between two and three feet apart along the bottom part of the curtain 24.
25          In the disengaged position seen in Figure 2 it is noted that the outermost portion of the
   engagement member 7, that is, the second end of first member 2, which can be in the form of a
   hook or any other recess that can be adapted to engage the bar 21 of the retaining means 8, is
   positioned between the combing 14 and the tie rail 13 and is within the confines of the side of the
   vehicle. That is, it does not penetrate the opening of, or gap between, the combing 14 and the tie
30 rail 13 when in the disengaged position. This ensures that the retaining device(s) 8, are able to
   move along the side of the vehicle effortlessly when opening or closing the curtain 24 to gain
   access to or to secure the cargo in the load carrying space. It also reduces the risk of damage to
   the system 1 or mechanisms thereof during the unloading or loading process. Figure 2 also
                                                        6

   shows how the engagement member 7 is locked into the disengaged position through the
   downward position of the pivot point or connection point 15 that results in the first end 26 of the
   first member 2 and the first end 20 of the second member 3 being pulled lower by the securing
   means 11. At the same time it raises the outer second end 27 of the engagement means 7 to lift
 5 the height of the engagement member 7 to just below the combing 14 and to about the height of
   the lower edge of the second mounting bracket 6.
           It is to be understood that the system 1 is preferably used with a horizontal tensioning
   system which can be a winder or roller mechanism in order to roll the curtain to an open position
   or closed position where the curtain 24 is adapted to slide along a rail or track at its upper edge.
10 A plurality of retaining devices 8 can be retained at the lower part of the curtain 24 and it can be
   positioned relative to a respective engagement means or member 7 of a plurality of first member
   means 2 in order to secure the curtain in a fully closed and taut position. Thus a horizontal
   tensioning system preferably exists to enable the curtain 24 to be tensioned in the horizontal
   direction whereby a predetermined horizontal tension can be applied to the curtain 24 in order to
15 align each of the plurality of retaining devices 8 to a respective first member 2, and more
   specifically an engagement means 7.
           In Figure 3 the first and second members 2, 3 and therefore the engagement member 7 is
   shown in a position between a first, fully disengaged position and a second, engaged position.
   The engagement member 7 extends out just beyond the combing 14 and is moving in a
20 downward direction towards the retaining device 8. As mentioned previously this motion is
   triggered through the turning of the swivel bar 12, by a control or actuator mechanism, in an anti
   clockwise direction which forces the connection point 15 upwardly and therefore, due to the
   shape of the elbow 17 and 18 of the first member 2, moves outwardly and downwardly which is
   assisted by the pivoting of the connection point 28 at the securing means 10 with the second
25 mounting bracket 6 and movement of the securing means 10 within the slot 9. It is seen that the
   securing means 10 has moved further inwardly towards elbow 17 within the slot 9 compared to
   Figures 1 and 2. In moving from the first position to the second position, the engagement
   member 7 of first member 2 is actuated to move towards the retaining device 8, whilst being
    above the retaining device 8, and then downwardly towards the retaining device 8 to thereafter
30 have the engagement member 7 engage the retaining device 8 and the engagement member 7
   forcing the retaining device 8 inwardly to tauten or tighten the curtain 24 in the closed position.
           With reference to Figure 4 the engagement member 7 connects with and is retained by
   the retaining device 8 against the bar 21. The complementary hook or recess of the engagement
                                                      7

   member 7 contacts the bar 21. With the position that the system 1 and more particularly the first
   and second members 2 and 3 are in, the outer end 27 of second member 2, where the engagement
   means 7 is located, has moved further inwardly and downwardly to keep the curtain 24 in a taut
   position. The pivot point or connection point 28 between the second securing means 10 and the
 5 second mounting bracket 6 is located at the most inward point of slot 9, near to elbow 17. The
   section 29 of first member 2, between the elbows 17 and 18, points downwardly as seen in
   Figures 4 and 5 while the second member 3 and the portion 30 of the first member 2, between
   the elbow 17 and the connection point 15, are almost horizontal with each other. With this
   arrangement it is important to note that the system 1 stays internal to the side of the combing 14
10 and just above the tie rail 13 when engaged, so as to reduce the risk of damage in transit or
   movement of the curtain 24. A block or pin can be provided in order to limit movement of the
   engagement means 7 when in the engaged position. Such a block or pin can be positioned below
   the system 1 to ensure that the whole system 1 (or parts thereof) is kept in the engaged position.
            In order to release and undo the retaining devices 8 from the first and second members 2,
15 3 of system 1, the reverse process occurs. In other words the swivel bar 12 is rotated in the
   opposite, clockwise direction to force the connection point 15 downwardly and to enable the
   securing means 10 to slide to the right within the slot 9. In this situation the engagement means
   7 firstly moves outwardly and then upwardly to be clear of the bar 21 and then inwardly to the
   positions shown in Figure 1 and 2.
20          With regard to Figure 6 this shows more clearly the open position of the system 1.
   Instead of having the first and second mounting brackets 5 and 6, a single mounting bracket 23 is
   used that enables connection of the swivel bar 12 and the second member 3 at the left side of the
   mounting bracket 23 and connection at the right side of the mounting bracket 23 of the first
   securing means 10, and thereby retaining the first member 2 so that it is adapted to be displaced
25 by movement of the securing means 10 within the slot 9.
            Figure 7 shows system 1 in a fully retained or fully closed position such that the
   engagement means 7 is engaged with the retaining means 8 which is attached to the bottom of
   curtain 24.
30
                                                      8

   The claims defining the invention are as follows:
    1.     A vertical curtain tensioning system for use with a vehicle load carrying space, in which
   a curtain is movable between an open position to access said load carrying space and a closed
   position to secure said load carrying space, said system enabling said curtain to remain taut to
 5 secure said load carrying space and including:
           member means adapted to move between a first position and a second position;
           said member means having an engagement means for engaging a retaining means
   associated with said curtain;
           wherein in said first position said member means is disengaged from said retaining means
tO and in said second position said engagement means engages the retaining means to keep the
   curtain vertically tensioned.
   2.      A vertical curtain tensioning system according to claim 1 wherein said member means
   includes a first member and a second member, said first member and said second member
   connected to one another to enable relative movement between said first member and said
t5 second member.
   3.      A vertical curtain tensioning system according to claim 2 wherein said member means is
   actuated by an actuator means to move said member means between said first position and said
   second position.
   4.      A vertical curtain tensioning system according to claim 2 or claim 3 wherein said first
20 member has a slot and said engagement means, wherein further a securing means moves within
   said slot when said member means moves between said first and second positions.
   5.      A vertical curtain tensioning system according to claim 4 wherein said retaining means
   has a loop or step that has an opening into which said engagement means moves, prior to
   engaging said loop or step to position the member means in said second position and after
25 disengaging with said loop or step to position the member means in said first position.
   6.      A vertical curtain tensioning system according to claim 5 wherein the loop or step has a
   bar with which said engagement means engages to keep said curtain taut in said closed position.
   7.      A vertical curtain tensioning system according to any one of claims 4 to 6 wherein in
   moving from said first position to said second position, the engagement means of said first
                                                     9

     member is actuated to move towards said retaining means whilst being above said retaining
     means and then downwardly towards said retaining means to thereafter have the engagement
     means engage the retaining means and said engagement means forcing the retaining means
     inwardly to tauten the curtain in said closed position.
 5   8.      A vertical curtain tensioning system according to claim 7 wherein the first and second
     members are connected at a connection point by a further securing means and are each
     articulated for movement with respect to one another.
     9.      A vertical curtain tensioning system according to claim 8 wherein a distal end of said
     second member, remote from said connection point, is linked to the actuator means and secured
10 a to a mounting bracket.
      10.    A vertical curtain tensioning system according to claim 9 or claim 10 wherein said
     engagement means is located at a distal end of said first member and said securing means is
     affixed to a mounting means such that the slot moves with respect to the securing means when
     the member means moves between said first and said second positions.
15   11.     A vertical curtain tensioning system according to claim 10 wherein in said first position
     the member means is disengaged from the retaining means and is so positioned to not impede
     movement of the curtain sideways when opening or closing said curtain.
     12.     A vertical curtain tensioning system according to any one of the preceding claims
     including a plurality of said member means located along the length of said load carrying space,
20   each of said member means adapted to engage a corresponding one of a plurality of retaining
     means to tauten said curtain.
     13.     A vertical curtain tensioning system according to claim 12 wherein said curtain is
     tensioned horizontally so as to align each retaining means with a corresponding member means
     of said vertical curtain tensioning system.
25   14.     A vertical curtain tensioning system according to any one of the preceding claims further
     including means for keeping the engagement means engaged with the retaining means.
     15.     A vertical curtain tensioning system for use with a vehicle load carrying space, in which
     a curtain is movable between an open position to access said load carrying space and a closed
     position to secure said load carrying space, said system enabling said curtain to remain taut to
30   secure said load carrying space and including:
                                                      10

           a series of respective member means adapted to move between a first position and a
   second position;
           wherein each of said member means has an engagement means for engaging a respective
   retaining means of a series of retaining means associated with said curtain;
 5         wherein in said first position each of said member means is disengaged from said
   respective retaining means and in said second position the corresponding engagement means
   engages the respective retaining means to keep the curtain vertically tensioned.
10
15
20
                                                     11

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
