                                    ABSTRACT
A local network system Includes a vehicle having one or more terminals operable
to act as a client on the local network and a gateway device operable to manage
communications between the one or more terminals and an external network. The
gateway device includes a memory configured to store a set of instructions; a
processor configured to execute the set of instructions; a first communications
module in communication with the external network; a second communications
module for providing communication between the gateway device and at least
one terminal; and a third communications module for providing communication
between the gateway device and at least one other terminal.

    1/16
         C=
CD.

                          GATEWAY DEVICE, SYSTEM AND METHOD
                                             Technical Field
        This application relates to networked system and in particular gateway devices, systems
and methods.
                                            Background Art
        It is becoming increasingly common for homes, businesses, etc. to have access to a wide
variety of networked or remote services. Illustrative services include Internet service, cellular
voice and data services, on-line services, phone services (PSTN, POTS, VolP, etc.), cable
television services, satellite television services, satellite radio services, etc. Unfortunately, it is
quite common for at least some of these services to each have their own access point as well as
required hardware. As such, homes and businesses are frequently cluttered with numerous wires
and cables as well as "electronically cluttered" with a variety of wireless access or
communication points. Therefore, there exists a significant need for the ability to combine the
access points to a significantly smaller number of access points as well as manage the
communications between devices and networks.
                                                     1

                                        Disclosure of Invention
        The present disclosure includes several embodiments of gateway devices, network
systems and methods. In one embodiment, a local network system comprises: a vehicle
comprising: one or more terminals operable to act as a client on the local network; a gateway
device operable to manage commrunications between the one or more terminals and an external
network, the gateway device comprising: a memory configured to store a set of instructions; a
processor configured to execute the set of instructions: a first communications module in
communication with the external network: a second communications module for providing
communication between the gateway device and at least one terminal; and a third
communications module for providing communication between the gateway device and at least
one other terminal.
        In another embodiment, a gateway device for a vehicle, the gateway device operable to
manage communications between one or more terminals and an external network, the gateway
device comprising:a memory configured to store a set of instructions; a processor configured to
execute the set of instructions; a first communications module in communication with the
external network, wherein the first module includes at least one member of a group comprising:
an air-to-ground communication control system communications module; a satellite
communications module; a GSM-R communications control module; a TETRA communications
module; a Wi-Fi communications module; and a WiMAX communications module; a second
communications module for providing communication between the gateway device and at least
one terminal; and a third communications module for providing communication between the
gateway device and at least one terminal.
                                                   2

                                    Brief Description of the Drawings
        The drawings, when considered in connection with the following description, are
presented for the purpose of facilitating an understanding of the subject matter sought to be
protected.
        FIG 1 is a first illustrative system.
        FIG 2 is a second illustrative system.
        FIG 3 is a third illustrative system.
        FIG 4 is a fourth illustrative system.
        FIG 5 is a fifth illustrative system.
        FIG 6 is a sixth illustrative system.
        FIG 7 is an illustrative gateway device.
        FIG 8 is an illustrative method for transferring calls between a gateway device and a
telecommunications network.
        FIG 9 is an illustrative method for communicating caller ID information.
        FIG 10 is an illustrative method for providing on-demand services.
        FIG 11 is an illustrative method for providing dynamic control of streamed content.
        FIG 12 is an illustrative method for providing parental controls.
        FIG 13 is an illustrative method for providing text messages.
        FIG 14 is a first illustrative vehicle system,
        FIG 15 is a second illustrative vehicle system.
        FIG 16 is a third illustrative vehicle system.
        FIG 17 is a fourth illustrative vehicle system.
        FIG 18 is an illustrative method of blocking a communication.
                                                     3

                               Modes for Carrying Out the Invention
        Referring now to the FIGS. wherein like elements are referred to with the same numerals
throughout and wherein FIG 1 illustrates a system 100 in accordance with the present disclosure.
The system 100 includes a gateway device 110, one or more terminals 115a- 115n (collectively
115), and an external network 120.
        The external network 120 may include any number of networks capable of providing
communications to and/or receiving communications from the gateway device 110. For
example, the external network may be one or more, or any combination of, wireless networks,
data or packet networks, publicly switched telephone networks (PSTN), cellular networks, wide
area networks (WAN), adjacent local area networks (LAN), etc. In one embodiment, the external
network 120 includes the Internet.
        The participant terminals 115 may include any suitable device operable to act as a client
on a network. Illustrative terminals 115 include, but are not limited to, personal computers,
desktop computers, laptop computers, tablet computers, video game systems, servers, any
suitable telecommunications device, including, but not limited to, VoIP telephones, smart
telephones or wireless devices, such as cellular telephones, personal digital assistants (PDA),
communications enabled mp3 players, etc., smart meters, closed circuit television systems,
communications enabled televisions, DVRs, set top boxes, satellite radio receivers, printers,
copiers, switches, enterprise switches, network access storage (NAS), or any other device
suitable to act as a terminal on the local network. The terminals 115 may communicate with the
gateway 110 using wireless communications or hardwired connections, such as fiber optics,
cable, DSL, telephone lines, and other similar connections.
        As will be further discussed below, the gateway device 110 and terminals 115 form a
                                                  4

local area network (LAN) 125 such that the gateway device 110 manages communications
between the external network 120 and LAN 125. Further, the gateway device 110 is configured
to provide communications between and otherwise manage or control communications between
the terminals 115 and the external network 120.
        The gateway device 110 includes a plurality of communications modules to communicate
with one or more of the external network 120 and terminal(s) 115. In one embodiment, the
gateway device 110 includes a first communication module configured to communicate with the
external network 120. Illustrative first communications modules, include without limitation, a
WAN communications module (e.g. any DocSIS, DSL, xDSL, ADSL, ADSL 2, ADSL 2+,
VDSL, VDSL2, SHDSL, GbE, ONT, GPON ONT, SPON ONT, EPON ONT, BPON ONT,
MoCA, TDM, any T-carrier, any E-carrier, any J-carrier, etc.), a WLAN communications
module, an Ethernet communications module, or any other suitable communications module.
Additionally, it will be appreciated that the term "module" should be understood broadly so as to
encompass any device for communicating with an external network including, but not limited to
one or any combination of modems, peripheral cards, modules, on-chip arrangements,
transmitters, receivers, transreceivers, etc.
        The gateway device 110 further includes one or more communications modules for
communicating with one or more terminals 115. The second, third, fourth, etc. communications
module(s) for communicating with one or more terminals 115 may include, without limitation, a
voice gateway communications module, an Ethernet communications module, a VoIP
communications module, a Femto communications module, a Zigbee communications module, a
WiFi communications module, WHDMI communications module, print servers, DVR
communications module, etc. In one embodiment, one or more of the communications modules
                                                  5

is a wireless USB-based communications module (e.g. a wireless WHDMI USB module, etc.). It
will be appreciated that any communications module, or any number or combination of
communications modules, configured to communicate with one or more terminals may be
employed and remain within the scope of the present disclosure.
        Suitable illustrative communications modules for communicating with the external
network 120 and/or terminals 115 of the system include, without limitation: the PacketAMC
board offered by ADAX, Inc.; any of the AMC modules (AM4500, AM4510, AM4520, etc.)
offered by Kontron AG; the iSPAN 3639 Ti/El controller offered by Interphase Corp.; the
ETRX3 Zigbee module offered by Telegesis Ltd.; the XB24-Z7PIT-004 module offered by Digi
International, Inc.; the Femtocell SoC solution offered by Freescale Semiconductor Inc.; and the
Starcore Voice Gateway offered by Freescale Semiconductor Inc. However, it will be
appreciated that any suitable device for providing communication between the gateway device
110 and the external network 120 and/or terminals 115 may be employed as any suitable
communication module in the system.
        FIGS. 2-6 illustrate several non-limiting examples of the implementation of the system of
the present disclosure. It will be appreciated that the following illustrative embodiments are not
intended to limit the scope of the disclosure in any way. Each of the illustrative embodiments in
FIGS. 2-6 illustrate a variety of terminals in several different settings. It will be appreciated that
embodiments having a plurality of the same terminal type are expressly contemplated.
Additionally, it will be appreciated that additional terminal types not shown may be employed,
including but not limited to the various terminals mentioned above. Also, fewer terminals than
shown may be employed and that the expression of one terminal type is not at the exclusion of
all other terminal types. Also, it will be appreciated that the functionality of the gateway device
                                                   6

 110 in one embodiment may be employed in every other embodiment and it will be appreciated
that expression of only a certain functionality in one embodiment is not at the exclusion of all
other the functionality described in other embodiments herein.
        FIG 2 illustrates the implementation of the gateway device 110 as a home
communication and entertainment gateway. In this embodiment, the terminals (collectively 315)
include a television 315a, a mobile device 315b, a computer 315c, a smart meter 315d, a security
system 315e, a gaming system 315f and a DVR/STB 315g. The gateway device 110 manages
communications between the terminals 315 and external network 120. For example, the gateway
device 110 may permit access to the external network 120 by one or more of the terminals 315
this may include, without limitation, providing communications between one or more of the
terminals and the external network 120 by transferring data between the terminals 315 and
network 120, which may include converting the data so that it is usable by the terminals 315 or
endpoint in the external network 120, etc. For example, and without limitation, the gateway
device 110 may act so as to permit one of the terminals to access the Internet, etc. Additionally,
the gateway device 110 may manage communications between the terminals 315. For example,
and without limitation, the gateway device 110 may receive a command from one terminal and
pass the command to a second terminal such that the second terminal is responsive to the
command from the first terminal (e.g. a record command from the mobile device 315b or
computer 315c to the DVR/STB 315g, etc.). Furthermore, the gateway device 110 may manage
remote access to one of the terminals 315 over the external network 120. For example, and
without limitation, a remote device 317 (e.g. mobile device, computer, etc.) may be permitted to
access one of the terminals 315 so as to allow control of the terminal (e.g. remote access to
control a smart meter 315d, security system 315e, DVR/STB 315g, etc.).
                                                  7

        FIG 3 illustrates the implementation of the gateway device 110 in an office setting. The
gateway device 110 may be configured to serve as a small home office gateway, a multi-service
business gateway or any other suitable gateway or device. In this embodiment, the terminals
(collectively 415) include a switch 415a, such as an enterprise switch, which is connected to
devices such as a multifunction device (copier/scanner/printer) 415b, workstations 415c, phones
such as ISDN lines 415d or VolP lines 415e. It will be appreciated that in some instances a
switch may not be desirable or necessary and that a switch 415a may not be employed and the
terminals placed in direct communication with the gateway device 110. Further, even in
instances where a switch 415a is employed, it may still be desirable for certain terminals to be in
direct communication with the gateway 110 including, but not limited to, workstations 415f,
network access storage (NAS) 415g, printers/scanners 415h, VoIP phone, any Power Over
Ethernet (POE) enabled device, etc. The gateway device 110 may manage communications
between the external network 120 and the terminals 415 as well as communications between
terminals 415.
        Referring now to FIG. 4, a gateway device 110 is shown in communication with smart
meters (collectively 515). As used herein, the term smart meter refers to any device configured
to monitor and/or control utilities, utility services, or the like. Illustrative smart meters include,
without limitation, smart breaker boxes 515a, lighting control systems 515b, smart electric
meters 515c, smart gas meters, smart water meters, industrial PLCs, access control systems,
smart appliances, or any other suitable device or devices. In one embodiment, the gateway
device 110 manages communications between one or more smart meters 515 such that the
meter(s) 515 may be monitored or controlled by another terminal (not show in FIG 5). Also, in
one embodiment, the gateway device 110 may be configured to allow remote access to one or
                                                    8

more smart meters 515 over the external network 120 such that a remote device 517 (e.g. mobile
device, computer, etc.) may be permitted to access, monitor and/or control the smart meter(s)
515. It will be appreciated that the gateway device 110 provide smart meter management,
including but not limited to energy grid management, for home area networks (HAN) as well as
field area networks (FAN).
        Referring now to FIG. 5, another embodiment employing the gateway device 110 is
shown. In this embodiment, the terminals 615a-615n, collectively 615, include components for a
closed-circuit television arrangement. In one embodiment, each of the terminals 615 is a camera
such as a video camera, infrared camera, FUR camera, thermographic camera, or any other
device or devices suitable for a closed-circuit arrangement. In one embodiment, a terminal is a
network digital video recorder 618 to which at least some of the cameras 615 are in
communication with. Alternatively, if the gateway device includes persistent storage, the footage
from the terminals may be stored thereon. In one embodiment, the gateway device 110 manages
communications between other terminals (not shown) and the camera terminals 615 so that the
other terminals are able to view, monitor and/or control the camera terminals 615 as well as view
recorded footage from the cameras that is stored in the network digital video recorder 618 and/or
persistent storage of the gateway device 110. Also, in one embodiment, the gateway device 110
may be configured to allow remote access to one or more of the terminals 615 and/or 618 over
the external network 120 such that a remote device (e.g. mobile device 617a, computer 617b,
etc.) may be permitted to view, monitor and/or control the camera terminals 615 as well as view
recorded footage from the cameras that is stored in the network digital video recorder 618 and/or
persistent storage of the gateway device 110. Further, in one embodiment, the gateway device
may be configured to enhance the stored video footage so as to enhance the quality of the video
                                                   9

or any other suitable aspect or characteristic of the video.
         Referring now to FIG. 6, the gateway device 110 may be configured to also act as a
unified communication controller. Here, the terminals (collectively 715) may include a video
camera 715a, a microphone 715b, and a monitor or television 715c. The terminals may be
discrete devices or combined in any suitable combination for an integrated device. The gateway
device 110 may be configured to provide communications between each of the terminals 715 and
the external network 120 such that the gateway device 110 is operable to provide real time video
conferencing.
         FIGS. 14-17 illustrate the application of a gateway device in a variety of mobile or
vehicular settings. It will be appreciated that the following illustrative embodiments are not
intended to limit the scope of the disclosure in any way. Each of the illustrative embodiments in
FIGS. 14-17 illustrate the gateway device and/or terminals in several different settings. It will be
appreciated that embodiments having a plurality of the same terminal type are expressly
contemplated. Additionally, it will be appreciated that additional terminal types not shown may
be employed, including but not limited to the various terminals mentioned above. Also, fewer
terminals than shown may be employed and that the expression of one terminal type is not at the
exclusion of all other terminal types. Also, it will be appreciated that the functionality of the
gateway device 110 in one embodiment may be employed in every other embodiment and it will
be appreciated that expression of only a certain functionality in one embodiment is not at the
exclusion of all other functionality described in other embodiments herein. Also, while the
illustrative embodiments show several mobile or vehicular arrangements, it will be appreciated
that the gateway device and/or terminals may be used in any suitable mobile or vehicular setting
and remain within the scope of the present disclosure. Further, it will be appreciated that the
                                                   10

gateway may be capable of providing any suitable communication to terminal(s) on or in the
vehicle including, but not limited to, voice, video, data (Internet, text messaging, etc.). Also, it
will be appreciated that a vehicle may include any suitable number of signal jammers/blockers
(whether wired or wireless) at any suitable location in or on the vehicle and remain within the
scope of the present disclosure (see also the discussion below regarding signal jamming/blocking
related FIG. 18).
        Referring now to FIG. 14, FIG 14 illustrates a gateway device 110 and terminals 1415a
1415c (collectively 1415) in an aircraft 1402 setting. While a jet or plane are shown, "aircraft"
should be understood broadly so as to include any suitable flying vehicle (e.g. helicopter,
balloon, spacecraft, etc.). The gateway device 110 includes a first communications module 1404
configured to communicate with the external network 120. In one embodiment, the first
communications module 1404 is an air-to-ground communication controller system (AGCS)
communications module 1404. The AGCS communications module 1404 is adapted to
communicate with the network 120 through the aircraft's AGCS. The gateway device 110 also
includes one or more terminal communications modules 1406 for communicating with terminals
1415 within the aircraft 1402. The terminal communications module(s) 1406 may be any
suitable communications module and of any type previously discussed. The terminal
communication module(s) 1406 may provide communications with the terminals 1415 through
any suitable hardwired or wireless communications means or protocol. The gateway device 110
is then able to provide and/or manage and/or control communications between the network 120
and the terminal(s) 1415.    Of course, it will be appreciated that the communications modules
1404, 1406 may include any suitable combination devices and/or means for communicating with
the network via any suitable number or type of communications link, including but not limited to
                                                  11

any of the previously mentioned communications modules.
        Referring now to FIG. 15, a railway system 1500 is shown. The rail vehicle 1502 may be
any suitable rail vehicle including but not limited to a train, a passenger train, cargo train, railbus,
locomotive, or any other suitable rail vehicle, As will be appreciated the terminals 1515a- 1515d
(collectively 1515) may be of any suitable type including, but not limited, to those previously
mentioned. In one embodiment, the gateway device 110 includes a first communication module
configured to communicate with the external network 120. In one embodiment, the first
communications module is a satellite communications module adapted to communicate with the
network 120 via a satellite communications link. In an alternative embodiment, the
communications module 1504 is a GSM-R communications module adapted to communicate
with the network via a GSM-R link. In yet another embodiment, the communications module
1504 is a TETRA communications module adapted to communicate with the network 120 via
TETRA communications link. Of course, the first communications module may include any of
the forgoing communications modules as well (WLAN, WiMAX, WiFi, WAN, etc.). It will be
appreciated that the first module may include the ability to communicate via any one or more
suitable communications protocols (satellite, GSM-R, TETRA, WLAN, WiMAX, WiFi, WAN,
etc.) and remain within the scope of the present disclosure. The gateway device 110 also
includes one or more terminal communications modules 1506 for communicating with terminals
1515 within the rail vehicle 1502. The terminal communications module(s) 1506 maybe any
suitable communications module and of any type previously discussed. The terminal
communication module(s) 1406 may provide communications with the terminals 1415 through
any suitable hardwired or wireless communications means or protocol. The gateway device 110
is then able to provide and/or manage and/or control communications between the network 120
                                                  12

and the terminal(s) 1515.
         Referring now to FIG. 16, a gateway device 110 and terminals 1615a-1615c (collectively
1615) are shown in a watercraft 1602 setting. While a simple boat is shown, "watercraft" should
be understood broadly so as to include any suitable watercraft vehicle (e.g. cruise ships, personal
watercraft, motorboats, submarines, sailboats, tankers, ferries, etc.). The gateway device 110
includes a first communications module 1604 configured to communicate with the external
network 120. In one embodiment, the first communications module 1604 is a satellite
communications module 1604 adapted to communicate with the network 120 via any suitable
satellite communications link. In an alternative embodiment, the first communications module
may be adapted to support multi-band signaling and communication with the network 120 via
any suitable means or link (e.g. narrow, wide, ultra-wide band signals in he UHF, VF, FM or any
other suitable wave range). Of course, it will be appreciated that the first communications
module may include any suitable combination devices and/or means for communicating with the
network via any suitable number or type of communications link. The gateway device 110 also
includes one or more terminal communications modules 1606 for communicating with terminals
1615 within the watercraft 1602. The terminal communications module(s) 1606 may be any
suitable communications module and of any type previously discussed. The terminal
communication module(s) 1606 may provide communications with the terminals 1615 through
any suitable hardwired or wireless communications means or protocol. The gateway device 110
is then able to provide and/or manage and/or control communications between the network 120
and the terminal(s) 1615.
         Referring now to FIG. 17, a gateway device 110 and terminals 1715a-1715c (collectively
1715) are shown in an automobile 1702 setting. While a bus is shown, "automobile" should be
                                                 13

understood broadly so as to include any suitable land vehicle (e.g. bus, car, truck semi-tractor
trailer, etc.). The gateway device 110 includes a first communications module 1704 configured
to communicate with the external network 120. In one embodiment, the first communications
module 1704 is one or more of a cellular communications module, adapted to communicate with
the network via cellular communications link. In an alternative embodiment, the first
communications module is a Wi-Fi communications module. In yet another embodiment, the
communications module 1704 WiMAX communications module. Of course, it will be
appreciated that the first communications module may include any suitable combination devices
and/or means for communicating with the network via any suitable number or type of
communications link, including but not limited to any of the previously mentioned
communications modules. The gateway device 110 also includes one or more terminal
communications modules 1706 for communicating with terminals 1715 within the automobile
1702. The terminal communications module(s) 1706 may be any suitable communications
module and of any type previously discussed. The terminal communication module(s) 1706 may
provide communications with the terminals 1715 through any suitable hardwired or wireless
communications means or protocol. The gateway device 110 is then able to provide and/or
manage and/or control communications between the network 120 and the terminal(s) 1715.
         Referring to FIG 7, a block diagram of a gateway device 110 is shown in which the
illustrative embodiments may be implemented. Computer-usable program code or instructions
implementing the processes used in the illustrative embodiments described herein, including all
methods, may be located on the gateway device 110. The gateway device 110 includes a
communications fabric 210, which provides communications between a processor unit 215, a
memory 220, a persistent storage 225 the first communications module 230, second
                                                 14

communications module 235 and third communications module 240. While three
communications modules are shown herein, it will be appreciated that any number of
communications modules may be employed and remain within the scope of the present
disclosure. Further, it will be appreciated that in some embodiments the gateway device 110 may
not include a persistent storage 225.
        The processor unit 215 serves to execute instructions for software that may be loaded into
the memory 220. The processor unit 215 may be a set of one or more processors or may be a
multi-processor core, depending on the particular implementation. Further, the processor unit
215 may be implemented using one or more heterogeneous processor systems in which a main
processor is present with secondary processors on a single chip. As another illustrative example,
the processor unit 215 may be a symmetric/asymmetric multi-processor system containing
multiple processors of the same type.
        The memory 220, in these examples, may be, for example, a random access memory or
any other suitable volatile or non-volatile storage device. The persistent storage 225 may take
various forms depending on the particular implementation. For example, the persistent storage
225 may contain one or more components or devices. For example, the persistent storage 225
may be a hard drive, a flash memory, a rewritable optical disk, a rewritable magnetic tape, or
some combination of the above. The media used by the persistent storage 225 also may be
removable. For example, a removable hard drive may be used for the persistent storage 225. In
one embodiment, the persistent storage 225 also stores video data selectively stored by a user
(e.g. as a DVR drive, etc.).
        The communications modules 230, 235, 240 will be the communications modules as
previously discussed - that is, at least one communications modules is configured to
                                                  15

communicate with an external network and at least one module is configured to communicate
with one or more terminals. Each module may take any of the forms previously discussed. In one
embodiment, one or more of the communications modules includes an ingress connector 250a
250c (collectively 250) and an egress connector 255a-255c (collectively 255). The ingress
connector 250 may be configured to test the incoming signal to the communications module
without interruption. The egress connector 255 may be configured to test the outgoing signal
from the communications module without interruption. Alternatively, an ingress connector and
an egress connector may each be connected to the board of the gateway device 110 wherein the
memory of the gateway device includes instructions that will allow the incoming and outgoing
signals for each communications module to be tested via such connection to the gateway board.
Thus, the line connections for each module may be tested.
        Instructions for the operating system and applications or programs are located on the
persistent storage 225. These instructions may be loaded into the memory 220 for execution by
the processor unit 215. The processes or methods of the different embodiments may be
performed by the processor unit 215 using computer-implemented instructions, which may be
located in a memory, such as the memory 220. These instructions are referred to as program
code, computer-usable program code, or computer-readable program code that may be read and
executed by a processor in the processor unit 215. The program code in the different
embodiments may be embodied on different physical or tangible computer-readable media, such
as the memory 220 or the persistent storage 225.
        In one embodiment, program code 260 is located in a functional form on a computer
readable media 265 and may be loaded onto or transferred to the gateway device 110 for
execution by the processor unit 215. The program code 260 and the computer-readable media
                                                 16

265 form computer program product 270 in these examples.
        In one example, the computer-readable media 265 may be in a tangible form, such as, for
example, an optical or magnetic disc that is inserted or placed into a drive or other device that is
part of the persistent storage 225 for transfer onto a storage device, such as a hard drive that is
part of the persistent storage 225. In a tangible form, the computer-readable media 265 also may
take the form of a persistent storage, such as a hard drive or a flash memory that is connected to
the gateway device 110. The tangible form of the computer-readable media 265 is also referred
to as computer recordable storage media.
        Alternatively, the program code 260 may be transferred to the gateway device 110 from
the computer-readable media 265 through a communication link to a communications module.
The communication link or the connection may be physical or wireless in the illustrative
examples. The computer-readable media 265 also may take the form of non-tangible media,
such as communication links or wireless transmissions containing the program code 260. In one
embodiment, the program code 260 is delivered to the gateway device 110 over the Internet.
        The different components illustrated for the gateway device 110 are not meant to provide
architectural limitations to the manner in which different embodiments may be implemented.
The different illustrative embodiments may be implemented in a data processing system
including components in addition to or in place of those illustrated for gateway device 110.
Other components shown in FIG. 7 can be varied from the illustrative examples shown.
        As one example, a storage device in the gateway device 110 is any hardware apparatus
that may store data. The memory 220, the persistent storage 225, and the computer-readable
media 265 are examples of storage devices in a tangible form.
                                                   17

        In another example, a bus system may be used to implement the communications fabric
210 and may be comprised of one or more buses, such as a system bus or an input/output bus.
Of course, the bus system may be implemented using any suitable type of architecture that
provides for a transfer of data between different components or devices attached to the bus
system. Further, a memory may be, for example, the memory 220 or a cache such as found in an
interface and memory controller hub that may be present in the communications fabric 210. It
will be appreciated that the communications fabric 210 may take any suitable form including, but
not limited to, non-blocking switch fabric, non-blocking point-to-point/multi-point link or any
other suitable communication fabric of communications path(s) between the various elements.
        Referring now to FIGS. 8-13, illustrative methods of the gateway device 110 managing
communications between the external network 120 and/or between the terminals are shown. It
will be appreciated that the terms "managing" and "controlling" are to be understood broadly and
encompass not only pushing communications through from the terminal(s) to one or both of
another terminal and external network, and vice versa, but also converting data, providing
security checks, storing data, caching data and any other means or method for optimizing said
communications. Furthermore, while the following methods are discussed individually, it will be
appreciated that a gateway device 110 may perform any of these methods, whether
simultaneously, sequentially, selectively, user-selectively, etc., and remain within the scope of
the present disclosure. Furthermore, the methods may also be employed by any device other
than a gateway device as described herein and be considered within the scope of the present
disclosure. Also, while the methods may sometimes refer to a single terminal, it will be
appreciated that more than one terminal may be employed and remain within the scope of the
present disclosure.
                                                  18

        Referring now to FIG. 8, a method 800 for transferring calls between a
telecommunications network and a gateway device is shown. As used herein,
telecommunications network shall be understood broadly so as to encompass any network
suitable for providing telecommunications, including but not limited to PSTN, POTS, cellular
networks, wireless networks, data or packet networks, or any other suitable network. Further, it
will be appreciated that the gateway device is in communications with an external network as
described above, telecommunications or otherwise, such that a call may be transferred to or
otherwise managed, handled or controlled by the gateway device. Also, the terms "strong,"
"relatively strong," "weak," and "relatively weak" should be understood broadly so as to
encompass a signal or output compared against a predetermined threshold value or a
determination of the quality or strength of a signal based on the ability to maintain service within
a predetermined quality range, or by any other suitable means or metric for ranking or otherwise
determining the strength and/or quality of a signal.
        First, a mobile device (also referred to as a terminal), e.g. cellular phones, etc., is
registered with the gateway device [step 802]. This will permit the gateway device to only
recognize or otherwise provide service to the mobile device registered therewith. Optionally,
this step may include installing an application on the mobile device such that the mobile device
provides the necessary information to the gateway device (e.g. tower strength, signal strength of
telecommunications network, etc.) and/or is responsive to commands from the gateway device
(e.g. handover command, etc.), but it will be appreciated that such an application may not always
be desirable or necessary.
        Once the mobile device(s) have been registered, the gateway device is configured to scan
or otherwise recognize mobile devices that become within range of the gateway device [step
                                                   19

804]. In one embodiment, a WiFi and/or a Femto module of the gateway device is employed for
scanning or otherwise recognizing mobile devices within range. However, it will be appreciated
that any suitable module or device may be used for this purpose. If it is determined that a mobile
device is not connected, the gateway will remain in a stand-by mode with respect to this method
and/or continue to scan for mobile devices [step 8061. Once a mobile device is detected, the
gateway device will determine if the mobile device is recognized as a device having been
previously registered with the gateway device [step 8081. In an alternative embodiment where
the mobile device is configured to provide an initial communication to a recognized gateway,
this step may be optional or not included in the method. If the mobile device is not recognized,
the gateway device continues to scan for a recognized mobile device or, alternatively, awaits an
initial communication from a previously registered mobile device [step 806]
         If the mobile device is recognized by the gateway as a registered mobile device, the
gateway device will determine the strength of the signal or communications between the mobile
device and the gateway device [step 812]. If the signal is relatively weak, the gateway device
may be configured to return to any of the previous steps (e.g. steps 804-810). If the signal is
relatively strong, the gateway device will query the mobile device to determine the strength of
the signal between the mobile device and the telecommunications network [step 812]. In one
embodiment, the mobile device is queried for the relative signal strength between the mobile
device and a cellular tower the mobile device is connected to. However, it will be appreciated
that the mobile device may be queried about the signal strength between the mobile device and
any telecommunications network and remain within the scope of the present disclosure. If the
signal strength associated the telecommunications network is stronger than the signal strength
between the mobile device and the gateway device, the gateway device may be configured to
                                                  20

return to any of the previous step (e.g. steps 804-812).
         If the signal strength between the mobile device and the gateway device is stronger, the
gateway device will, if necessary, make the necessary connection via the external network such
that the call maybe transferred from the telecommunications network to the gateway device
without interruption. The gateway device may then command the mobile device to transfer the
call to the gateway device [step 814].
         The gateway device may further be configured to handover a call from a mobile device in
communication with the gateway device to a telecommunications network. If a mobile device is
connected to the gateway device [step 804], the gateway device will monitor the signal strength
and determine if the signal strength is relatively strong or relatively weak [step 816]. If the
signal is relatively strong, the gateway device will maintain the connection and continuously or
periodically monitor the signal strength. If the signal strength is relatively weak, the gateway
device will determine if a telecommunications network is within range [step 818]. This may be
accomplished by the gateway itself or by querying the mobile device to determine if the mobile
device detects a telecommunications network. If no telecommunications network is detected, the
gateway may be configured to return to any of the previous steps (e.g. steps 804-815).
         If a telecommunications network is detected, the gateway device may determine whether
the signal or connection with the gateway device is stronger than the signal to the
telecommunications network [step 820]. If the signal to the gateway device is stronger, the
gateway device may maintain the connection and may be further configured to return to one of
the forgoing steps (e.g. steps 804-820). If the signal to the telecommunications network is
stronger, the gateway device may command the mobile device to initiate a handover sequence, as
is known in the art, so that the call may be transferred from the gateway device to the
                                                  21

telecommunications network [step 822]. The method may then be concluded and/or return to
step 804.
        The forgoing method may be employed in a variety of contexts. In one embodiment, the
mobile device is a cellular phone and the telecommunications network is a cellular network
whereby the gateway device may transfer a call to or from the telecommunications network to an
external network in communication with the gateway device (e.g. PSTN, POTS, VoIP, etc.). In
another embodiment, rather than a call being transferred, the connection for streaming data (e.g.
YouTube, Hulu, Netflix, etc.) may be transferred (e.g. between a 3G or 4G telecommunications
network and an internet connection managed or maintained by the gateway device, etc.).
        Referring now to FIG. 9, a method 900 for providing caller ID information to one or more
terminals is shown. First, one or more terminals are designated to receive caller ID information
when an incoming call is received by the gateway device from an external network [step 902].
Next, a call is received wherein the call has caller ID information associated therewith [step
904]. In response thereto, the gateway device communicates the caller ID information to the
previously designated devices [step 906].
        Referring now to FIG. 10, a method 100 for providing on-demand services to one or more
terminals is shown. On-demand services shall be understood to include any service for
providing content via an external network to a user or users. Illustrative content includes video,
audio, or any other suitable content. Illustrative on-demand service providers include, without
limitation, Hulu@, YouTube@, Netflix@, Pandora@, Songza@ and the like. First, the registration
information for each on-demand service is entered and stored in the gateway device [step 1002].
A search request from at least one terminal may then be received [step 1004]. The search request
may then be communicated to each on-demand service via the external network [step 1006]. The
                                                  22

search results from each on-demand service may then be received [step 1008]. The search
results may then be communicated to one or more terminal(s) [step 1010]. A command, such as
play, download, etc., from a terminal may then be received [step 1012]. The gateway device may
then push or stream the on-demand content to one or more terminals [step 1014]. It will be
appreciated that the gateway device may stream/push the content to the terminal(s) as it is
received from the on-demand service, may cache a suitable amount of the content prior to
streaming/pushing the content to the terminal(s), store the content in persistent storage and
transmit/push the content to the terminal(s) at a later time, etc.
        Referring now to FIG. 11, a method 1100 of providing dynamic control of streamed
content is provided. First, the gateway device streams content [step 1102]. The content may be
streamed from an on-demand source via the external network, from persistent storage, or from
any other suitable source (e.g. HD television signal via antenna, etc.). The gateway device will
stream the content to a cache, located in memory, persistent storage or other suitable repository,
so as to buffer the streaming content [step 1104]. The buffered content may then be pushed or
otherwise communicated to one or more terminals [step 1106]. The gateway device may then
receive a user command [step 1108]. Illustrative user commands here include, without
limitation, pause, record, etc. Upon receiving the user command, the cached content will be
tagged in accordance with the user command [step 11101. The gateway device may later provide
access to the tagged content based on the tag [step 1112]. For example, and without limitation,
content in cache may be tagged with a pause tag whereby a user may later access the paused
content in cache and even from a terminal different than the terminal from which the pause
command was made. In another example without limitation, cached content having a record tag
may be transferred to persistent storage for subsequent access by the user and even from a
                                                 23

terminal different than the terminal from which the record command was made.
        Referring now to FIG. 12 a method 1200 for providing parental control is shown. First,
the gateway device receives parental control instructions [step 1202]. The parental control
instructions may include restrictions based on any suitable content rating systems, restrictions
based on channel, restrictions based on time, or any suitable combination thereof. In one
embodiment, the restrictions may also be limited to certain terminal(s) and are not applied
equally to all terminal(s). The gateway device may then receive content to be transmitted or
pushed to one or more terminals [step 1204]. This content may be received in response to a
specific command (e.g to stream/play from a particular external network source, stream/play
from persistent storage, etc.) or may be more passive in nature (e.g. channel surfing by a user).
The gateway device may then determine if the content is permitted by the terminal(s) according
to the parental control instructions [step 1206]. If the content is not permitted to the terminal(s),
the gateway device will not stream/push the content to the terminal(s) [step 1208]. If the content
is permitted to the terminals, the gateway device will stream/push the content to the terminal(s)
[step 1210]. It will be appreciated that this method may be applied to any suitable content type
including, but not limited to, video, audio, Internet content etc.
        Referring now to FIG. 13, a method 1300 of delivering text messages is shown. First,
terminal(s) for receiving text messages are identified to the gateway [step 1302]. The gateway
may then receive a text message from a source via the external network [step 1304]. The
gateway device may then transmit/push the text message to the previously identified terminal(s).
In one non-limiting example, a terminal for receiving text messages may be a DECT phone.
        Referring now to FIG. 18, a method for jamming or otherwise controlling
communications from one or more terminal(s) is shown 1800. First, an attempted
                                                  24

communication from a terminal is detected [step 1802]. This communication may be detected
via any suitable means. In one embodiment, a Wi-Fi and/or a Femto module of the gateway
device is employed for scanning or otherwise recognizing attempted communication from one of
the terminals. However, it will be appreciated that any suitable module or device may be used
for this purpose. Once the terminal communication has been detected, the communication may
be intercepted, blocked or otherwise jammed so as to prevent the communication from reaching
its intended destination [step 1804]. Any suitable technique for intercepting, blocking and/or
jamming a communication as known in the art may be employed and remain within the scope of
the present disclosure. Next, a response communication may be sent to the terminal. The
response communication may take any suitable form. In one embodiment, the response
communication will turn the terminal to its travel mode or airplane mode. In an alternative
embodiment, the terminal may be required to register with the gateway device, which may or
may not include required payment from a user. In yet another embodiment, the terminal may be
directed to communicate with a particular website. It will be appreciated that the response
communication may combine any of the forgoing response communications and remain within
the scope of the present disclosure.
         While the present disclosure has been described in connection with what is considered the
most practical and preferred embodiment, it is understood that this disclosure is not limited to the
disclosed embodiments, but is intended to cover various arrangements included within the spirit
and scope of the broadest interpretation so as to encompass all such modifications and equivalent
arrangements. Also, as used herein, including in the claims, the terms first, second, third, etc...
used in relation to an element are for reference or identification purposes only, and these terms,
unless otherwise indicated, are not intended to describe or suggest a number, order, source,
                                                 25

purpose, or substantive quality for any element for which such a term is used.
                                      Industrial Applicability
         The disclosed invention would be valuable in the field of networking systems that utilize
gateways to communicate with various terminals. In particular, the referenced devices, systems,
and methods enables a user to simplify the use of and provide additional functionality to the
many types of electronic devices that permeate most users' lives. This will allow users more
flexibility and manufactures a way to integrate their products in a simplified network gateway.
                                                 26

                                               Claims
1. A local network system comprising:
        a vehicle comprising:
                one or more terminals operable to act as a client on the local network;
                a gateway device operable to manage communications between the one or more
        terminals and an external network, the gateway device comprising:
                        a memory configured to store a set of instructions;
                        a processor configured to execute the set of instructions;
                        a first communications module in communication with the external
                        network:
                        a second communications module for providing communication between
                the gateway device and at least one terminal; and
                        a third communications module for providing communication between the
               gateway device and at least one other terminal.
2. The system of claim I wherein the vehicle is an automobile.
3. The system of claim 1.wherein the vehicle is an aircraft.
4. The system of claim I wherein the vehicle is a rail vehicle.
5. The system of claim I wherein the vehicle is a watercraft.
6. The system of claim I wherein the first module includes at least one member of a group
comprising: an air-to-ground communication control system communications module; a satellite
communications module; a GSM-R communications control module; a TETRA communications
module: a Wi-Fi communications module; and a WiMAX communications module.
                                                 27

7. The system of claim I wherein the second module includes at least one member of a group
comprising: a voice gateway communications module, an Ethernet communications module, a
VoI P communications module, a Fento communications module, a Zigbee communications
module, a WiFi communications module, WHDMI communications module, a print server, and a
DVR communications module.
8 The system of claim I wherein the third module includes at least one member of a group
comprising: a voice gateway communications module. an Ethernet communications module, a
yelP communications module, a Fento communications module, a Zigbee communications
module, a WiFi communications module, WHDMI communications module, a WUSB WHDMI
communications module, a print server, and a DVR communications module.
9. The system of claim 1 further comprising a fourth communications module in
communications with a second external network
10. The system of claim I wherein the first module includes at least one member of a group
comprising: a WAN communications module; a WLAN communications module; and an
Ethernet communications module.
11. The system of claim I wherein the instructions cause the processor to:
        detect a communication from a terminal;
        intercept the communication from the terminal; and
        send a response communication to the terminal.
12. The system of claim 11 wherein the response communication includes instructions for
accessing the external network via the gateway device.
13. The system of claim II wherein the response communication is a command forcing the
terminal into a travel mode.
                                               28

14. A gateway device for a vehicle, the gateway device operable to manage communications
between one or more terminals and an external network, the gateway device comprising:
              a memory configured to store a set of instructions;
              a processor configured to execute the set of instructions;
              a first communications module in communication with the external network,
       wherein the first module includes at least one member of a group comprising: an air-to
       ground communication control system communication s.module; a satellite
       communications module; a GSM-R communications control module; a TETRA
       communications module; a Wi-Fi communications module; and a WiNI1AX
       com-munications module;
              a second communications module for providing communication between the
       gateway device and at least one terminal; and
              a third communications module for providing communication between the
       gateway device and at least one terminal..
15, The device of claim 14 wherein the second module includes at least one member of a group
comprising: a voice gateway communications module, an Ethernet communications module, a
VolP communications module, a Femto communications module, a Zigbee communications
module, a WiFi communications module, WHDMI communications module, a print server, and a
DVR communications module.
16. The device of claim 14 wherein the third module includes at least one member of a group
comprising: a voice gateway communications module, an Ethernet communications module, a
VoIP communications module, a Femto communications module, a Zigbee communications
                                                29

module, a WiFi communications module, WHDMI communications module, a WUSB WHDMI
communications module. a print server, and a DVR communications module.
17. The device of claim 14 wherein the instructions cause the processor to:
       detect a communication from a terminal:
       intercept the communication from the terminal; and
       send a response communication to the terminal.
18. The device of claim 17 wherein the response communication includes instructions br
accessing the external network via the gateway device.
19. The device of claim 17 wherein the response communication is a command forcing the
terminal into a travel mode.
                                               30

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
