                                              ABSTRACT
        A device may receive trial information that identifies rules or requirements associated
with a clinical trial. The device may identify a set of participants associated with the clinical
trial. The device may automatically obtain, from a user device associated with a particular
participant, of the set of participants, first information regarding the particular participant. The
first information may relate to a biometric of the particular participant or an environment
associated with the particular participant. The device may determine that the first information
indicates that the particular participant does not satisfy a particular rule or requirement
associated with the clinical trial. The device may provide, to the user device, a prompt
indicating that the particular participant does not satisfy the particular rule or requirement.
The device may store or provide the first information for addition to a profile associated with
the particular participant.

                                1/8
                             0~                 c2
                             EDE
                        00'
   75c                  ccE
             0                                       0
     0                                    70
                                          -0
                                                   C   C,
                     00
                         cnU
                                       CC
                  00
               coo
                                    .0
                                             2!1CU
                                     0       (
       C) 0)
00
 0

                                                   1
                      DEVICE FOR FACILITATING CLINICAL TRIAL
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0001]       Clinical trials are experiments, performed in clinical research, which are applied to
participants such as human volunteers. Clinical trials may be performed to better understand
how a specific disease presents or to determine the safety and effectiveness of medications,
devices, diagnostic products, or treatment regimens intended for human use. A clinical trial
is typically administered in accordance with a protocol that defines the parameters of the
clinical trial, including who may participate, frequency and dosage of medication to be taken,
data to be collected, etc. Thus, in order to perform a clinical trial, participants must be found
who fit the necessary profile and efforts must be employed to have them follow the protocol
through the period of the trial.

                                                    2
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0002]        In one aspect, the present invention provides a device, including one or more
processors that receive trial information and identify rules or requirements associated with a
clinical trial, identify a plurality of participants associated with the clinical trial, automatically
obtain, from a user device associated with a particular participant, of the plurality of
participants, first information regarding the particular participant, the first information relating
to a biometric of the particular participant or an environment associated with the particular
participant, determine that the first information indicates that the particular participant does
not satisfy a particular rule or requirement associated with the clinical trial, provide, to the
user device, a prompt indicating that the particular participant does not satisfy the particular
rule or requirement, and store or provide the first information for addition to a profile
associated with the particular participant.
[0003]       In another aspect, the present invention provides a method, including receiving,
by a first device, trial information that identifies rules or requirements associated with a
clinical trial, identifying, by the device, a plurality of participants associated with the clinical
trial, automatically obtaining, by the first device and from a second device associated with a
particular participant, of the plurality of participants, first information regarding the particular
participant, the first information relating to a biometric of the particular participant or
environmental conditions associated with the particular participant, determining, by the first
device and based on the first information, that the particular participant has violated a
particular rule or requirement associated with the clinical trial, providing, by the first device
and to the second device, a prompt indicating that the particular participant has violated the
particular rule or requirement, and store or provide the first information for addition to a profile
associated with the particular participant.
[0004]       In yet another aspect, the present invention provides a non-transitory computer
readable medium storing instructions, the instructions including one or more instructions that,
when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to receive
trial information that identifies rules or requirements associated with a clinical trial, identify a
plurality of participants associated with the clinical trial, automatically obtain, from a user

                                                   3
device associated with a particular participant, of the plurality of participants, first information
regarding the particular participant, the first information relating to a biometric of the particular
participant or an environment associated with the particular participant, and the first
information being obtained via a secure connection, determine that the first information
indicates that the particular participant does not satisfy a particular rule or requirement
associated with the clinical trial, provide, to the user device, a prompt indicating that the
particular participant does not satisfy the particular rule or requirement, and store or provide
the first information for addition to a profile associated with the particular participant.

                                                   4
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0005]       Figs. 1A-1C are diagrams of an overview of an example implementation described
herein;
[0006]       Fig. 2 is a diagram of an example environment in which systems and/or methods,
described herein, may be implemented;
[0007]       Fig. 3 is a diagram of example components of one or more devices of Fig. 2;
[0008]       Fig. 4 is a flow chart of an example process for identifying potential participants to
be added to a clinical trial participation pool;
[0009]       Fig. 5 is a flow chart of an example process for selecting participants from a clinical
trial participation pool to participate in a clinical trial; and
[0010]       Fig. 6 is a flow chart of an example process for administering a clinical trial.

                                                  5
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENT(S) OF THE INVENTION
[0011]      The following detailed description of example implementations refers to the
accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify
the same or similar elements.
[0012]      A healthcare or life sciences organization may administer a clinical trial to better
understand a disease or to test a medical drug or treatment. In doing so, the organization
may attempt to control variables relating to a population of participants to determine an effect
of the medical drug or treatment, such as efficacy, side effects, or the like.
[0013]      Administering a clinical trial and finding participants can be challenging for many
reasons. As one example, clinical researchers may need to advertise in print media or via
broadcast media when attempting to identify participants for a clinical trial. Alternatively,
researchers may need to canvas medical professionals, such as treating physicians, to
identify eligible participants.      These techniques may can be inefficient because the
researchers may have to screen through many potential participants to determine if any are
satisfy eligibility requirements for the clinical trial.  In addition, physical distance between
viable participants and investigator sites may render it difficult to locate the clinical trial in a
way that is accessible to a sufficient number of participants. As yet another example, it may
be expensive and time consuming to identify and sign up investigators to enroll patients in
the trial. Furthermore, there may be a disparity in access to clinical testing locations among
participants from different demographics.         As still another example, gathering relevant
medical history may be difficult and time consuming. Additionally, redundant gathering of
data may occur when a participant participates in multiple trials. As yet another example, it
may be difficult to ensure that a participant actually adheres to the rules of the clinical trial.
Further, it may be difficult to efficiently and securely gather data for the clinical trial.
[0014]      Implementations, described herein, may provide a clinical trial platform for clinical
trials.   The clinical trial platform may receive participant information for people who are
interested in participating in clinical trials, and may add those people to a pool of available
participants. The clinical trial platform may select available participants for clinical trials from
the pool based on attributes of the available participants. The clinical trial platform may

                                                     6
automatically obtain additional information from selected participants, such as signatures,
consent, or the like. Based on the additional information, the clinical trial platform may create
or update a data structure, such as a database. In administering the clinical trial, the clinical
trial platform may collect clinical information and may improve adherence to rules based on
providing adherence prompts to the participants. The clinical trial platform may store the
newly obtained information in association with participant profiles.
[0015]       In this way, the clinical trial platform may enable analysis of participant information
gathered in many different clinical trials, and may reduce double-keying of information.
Additionally, the clinical trial platform may improve matching of participants with clinical trials
by more efficiently matching participants to clinical trials as opposed to conventional
techniques. Furthermore, the clinical trial platform may improve adherence of participants
to the requirements of the clinical trials. Still further, the clinical trial platform may reduce
reliance on humans (e.g., local medical professionals) to gather information associated with
clinical trials. Still further, the clinical trial platform may allow for the collection and
aggregation of disparate data types previously not available as part of a trial. Additionally,
the clinical trial platform may improve security of the clinical trial process.
[0016]       Notably, in some implementations, the clinical trial platform may perform such
operations based on a combination of clinical information, personal information, and ambient
information. Clinical information may include information obtained from medically regulated
devices or data otherwise collected in a fashion that satisfies regulatory requirements (e.g.,
patient-reported outcomes, information gathered by a field worker, etc.).                   Personal
information may include non-regulated information gathered by a device (e.g., a patient
weight, an activity level measurement, a sleep quality measurement, a measurement
obtained by a wearable device, such as a FitBit, etc.). Ambient information may include
information regarding an environment associated with a patient, such as weather
information, pollen count, humidity, or the like. The clinical trial platform may use this
information to generate adherence prompts, and to enable more robust analysis of gathered
information to identify efficacy of a medication based on environmental or personal variables.

                                                  7
[0017]       Figs. 1A-1C are diagrams of an overview of an example implementation 100
described herein. As shown in Fig. 1A, example implementation 100 may include an clinical
trial platform, user devices, and a server device (e.g., a server). As shown by reference
number 102, the clinical trial platform may identify a potential participant for a clinical trial
participant pool. For example, the clinical trial platform may identify the potential participant
based on demographic information associated with the potential participant, based on past
participation of the potential participant in one or more clinical trials, or the like.
[0018]       As shown by reference number 104, the clinical trial platform may provide, to a
user device of the potential participant, an information request for participant information
associated with the potential participant.        The participant information may include, for
example, a location associated with the potential participant, a schedule of availability of the
potential participant, personal information associated with the potential participant, or the
like. As shown by reference number 106, the information request may cause a user interface
of the user device to display a "call to action," directed to the potential participant, to
determine whether the potential participant might be added to the clinical trial participant
pool.    The call to action may include an advertisement, an email, a text message, a
notification on a social network, a post on an internet forum or message board, a prompt
within a software application (e.g., an app running on the user device), or the like.
[0019]       As shown by reference number 108, the call to action may include a link (e.g.,
shown as "Trials") which a user of a user device can select to indicate interest in being a
clinical trial participant. Upon selecting the link, the user may provide participant information
such as the user's location, medical history, availability, hobbies, or the like. As shown by
reference number 112, the participant information may be provided to a server device. The
server device may add the participant information to a participant information data structure.
By providing the participant information directly to the server and not via the clinical trial
platform, security of the participant information is improved and processor resources of the
clinical trial platform are conserved. In some implementations, the link shown by reference
number 108 may be a "deep link" which causes relevant information to be provided or stored
to a specific location on the server device (e.g., without being processed by and/or routed

                                                  8
via the clinical trial platform), thus conserving resources of the server device and/or the
clinical trial platform that would otherwise be used to process the relevant information.
[0020]       As shown in Fig. 1B, and by reference number 114, a user device may receive
trial information that identifies one or more criteria for selecting participants in a clinical trial
(e.g., location, medical requirements, age, etc.). As shown by reference number 116, the
user device may provide the trial information to the clinical trial platform.        As shown by
reference number 118, the clinical trial platform may identify one or more selected
participants for the clinical trial based on the trial information and based on the participant
information data structure. For example, the clinical trial platform may match the attributes
identified by the trial information with attributes of the one or more selected participants.
[0021]       As shown by reference number 120, the clinical trial platform may notify a selected
participant by sending an indication of the selection to a user device of the selected
participant, and may request the consent of the selected participant. As shown by reference
number 122, the clinical trial platform may obtain enrollment information associated with the
selected participant, such as a consent signature. In some implementations, the enrollment
information may include other information needed to perform the clinical trial, such as
payment information, an updated medical history, or the like. As shown by reference number
124, prescreening of the selected participant may then be complete, and the clinical trial may
be initiated.
[0022]       As shown in Fig. 1C, and continuing with example implementation 100, the clinical
trial platform may administer the trial to selected participants. As shown by reference number
126, the clinical trial platform may receive administration information that relates to
participation in a clinical trial by a set of participants, such as information to be reported,
activities to be performed, rules for adherence, or the like. As shown by reference number
128, the clinical trial platform may administer the clinical trial based on the administration
information.
[0023]       As shown by reference number 130, to administer the clinical trial, the clinical trial
platform may provide a clinical information request to a participant in the clinical trial via a

                                                    9
user device of the participant. As shown by reference number 132, the clinical trial platform
may obtain clinical information relating to participation in the clinical trial.
[0024]      As shown by reference number 134, to administer the clinical trial, the clinical trial
platform may receive personal information from a user device indicating a participant is not
in adherence with clinical trial rules, such as a heart rate that exceeds a threshold, or a
participant location that violates a clinical trial rule. For example, this personal information
may be received from a wearable device associated with the participant, from a user device
associated with a nurse or field worker, or from another type of device. As shown by
reference number 136, the clinical trial platform may provide an adherence prompt to the
user device to improve adherence to the requirements of the clinical trial by the participant.
As shown by reference number 138, to administer the clinical trial, the clinical trial platform
may provide clinical information to the server, and the server may add the clinical information
to the participant information data structure.        In some implementations, the clinical trial
platform may process the clinical information, may identify particular clinical information that
is to be provided, may analyze particular clinical information, or the like.                 In some
implementations, the clinical trial platform may receive and/or process ambient information
to administer the clinical trial.        For example, the clinical trial platform may generate
adherence prompts based on trial information and ambient information, may analyze
particular clinical information based on the ambient information, may identify outcomes of
the clinical trial based on the ambient information, or the like.
[0025]      In this way, the clinical trial platform may enable analysis of participant information
gathered in many different clinical trials, and may reduce double-keying of information by
local medical professionals. Additionally, the clinical trial platform may improve matching of
participants with clinical trials based on attributes of the participants and the clinical trials.
Furthermore, the clinical trial platform may improve adherence of participants to the
requirements of the clinical trials. Still further, the clinical trial platform may reduce reliance
on humans (e.g., local medical professionals) to gather information associated with clinical
trials. Additionally, the clinical trial platform may improve security of the clinical trial process.
Further, the clinical trial platform may improve safety of the trial process. For example, the
clinical trial platform may determine that a participant's vital signs satisfy a particular

                                                 10
threshold (e.g., based on a user device associated with the participant), and may transmit a
message indicating that the participant is to cease taking a medication, visit a medical
professional, or the like. Finally, the clinical trial platform may collect "ambient" data about
the participant's environment at specific points in time and provide additional analysis of that
data in combination with other data collected.
[0026]       As indicated above, Figs. 1A-1C are provided merely as an example.            Other
examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to Figs. 1A-1C.
[0027]       Fig. 2 is a diagram of an example environment 200 in which systems and/or
methods described herein may be implemented. As shown in Fig. 2, environment 200 may
include one or more user devices 205, one or more server devices 210, an clinical trial
platform 215 hosted within a cloud computing environment 220, and a network 225. Devices
of environment 200 may interconnect via wired connections, wireless connections, or a
combination of wired and wireless connections.
[0028]       User device 205 includes one or more devices capable of receiving, generating,
storing, processing, and/or providing information associated with clinical trial platform 215,
such as information associated with one or more applications of clinical trial platform 215.
For example, user device 205 may include a communication and computing device, such as
a mobile phone (e.g., a smart phone, a radiotelephone, etc.), a laptop computer, a desktop
computer, a tablet computer, a handheld computer, a wearable communication device (e.g.,
a smart wristwatch, a pair of smart eyeglasses, etc.), or a similar type of device. In some
implementations, user device 105 may include one or more medical devices (e.g., sensors,
monitors, etc.) via which data may be gathered.
[0029]       Server device 210 includes one or more devices capable of receiving, collecting,
obtaining, gathering, storing, processing, and/or providing information associated with a
patient and/or a treatment associated with the patient. For example, server device 210 may
include a server or a group of servers. In some implementations, server device 210 may
include a device that stores or has access to patient information that is to be used by clinical
trial platform 215. In some implementations, server device 210 may be capable of providing
information to clinical trial platform 215.

                                               11
[0030]     Clinical trial platform 215 includes one or more devices capable of receiving,
determining, processing, storing, and/or providing information associated with one or more
patient services associated with a patient and/or a treatment associated with the patient. For
example, clinical trial platform 215 may include a server or a group of servers. In some
implementations, clinical trial platform 215 may host a suite of applications associated with
the one or more patient services. In some implementations, clinical trial platform 215 may
include a workflow orchestration component as described herein.
[0031]     In some implementations, as shown, clinical trial platform 215 may be hosted in
cloud computing environment 220.          Notably, while implementations described herein
describe clinical trial platform 215 as being hosted in cloud computing environment 220, in
some implementations, clinical trial platform 215 may not be cloud-based or may be partially
cloud-based.
[0032]     Cloud computing environment 220 includes an environment that hosts clinical trial
platform 215. Cloud computing environment 220 may provide computation, software, data
access, storage, etc. services that do not require end-user (e.g., user device 205) knowledge
of a physical location and configuration of system(s) and/or device(s) that hosts clinical trial
platform 215. As shown, cloud computing environment 220 includes a group of computing
resources 222 (referred to collectively as "computing resources 222" and individually as
"computing resource 222").
[0033]     Computing resource 222 includes one or more personal computers, workstation
computers, server devices, or another type of computation and/or communication device. In
some implementations, computing resource 222 may host clinical trial platform 215. The
cloud resources may include compute instances executing in computing resource 222,
storage devices provided in computing resource 222, data transfer devices provided by
computing resource 222, etc.        In some implementations, computing resource 222 may
communicate with other computing resources 222 via wired connections, wireless
connections, or a combination of wired and wireless connections.
[0034]     As further shown in Fig. 2, computing resource 222 may include a group of cloud
resources, such as one or more applications ("APPs") 222-1, one or more virtual machines

                                                12
("VMs") 222-2, virtualized storage ("VSs") 222-3, one or more hypervisors ("HYPs") 222-4,
or the like.
[0035]       Application 222-1 includes one or more software applications that may be provided
to or accessed by user device 205. Application 222-1 may eliminate a need to install and
execute the software applications on user device 205. For example, application 222-1 may
include software associated with clinical trial platform 215 and/or any other software capable
of being provided via cloud computing environment 220.           In some implementations, one
application 222-1 may send/receive information to/from one or more other applications 222
1, via virtual machine 222-2.
[0036]       Virtual machine 222-2 includes a software implementation of a machine (e.g., a
computer) that executes programs like a physical machine. Virtual machine 222-2 may be
either a system virtual machine or a process virtual machine, depending upon use and
degree of correspondence to any real machine by virtual machine 222-2. A system virtual
machine may provide a complete system platform that supports execution of a complete
operating system ("OS"). A process virtual machine may execute a single program, and may
support a single process. In some implementations, virtual machine 222-2 may execute on
behalf of a user (e.g., user device 205), and may manage infrastructure of cloud computing
environment 220, such as data management, synchronization, or long-duration data
transfers.
[0037]       Virtualized storage 222-3 includes one or more storage systems and/or one or
more devices that use virtualization techniques within the storage systems or devices of
computing resource 222. In some implementations, within the context of a storage system,
types of virtualizations may include block virtualization and file virtualization.         Block
virtualization may refer to abstraction (or separation) of logical storage from physical storage
so that the storage system may be accessed without regard to physical storage or
heterogeneous structure. The separation may permit administrators of the storage system
flexibility in how the administrators manage storage for end users. File virtualization may
eliminate dependencies between data accessed at a file level and a location where files are

                                                13
physically stored. This may enable optimization of storage use, server consolidation, and/or
performance of non-disruptive file migrations.
[0038]      Hypervisor 222-4 provides hardware virtualization techniques that allow multiple
operating systems (e.g., "guest operating systems") to execute concurrently on a host
computer, such as computing resource 222.           Hypervisor 222-4 may present a virtual
operating platform to the guest operating systems, and may manage the execution of the
guest operating systems. Multiple instances of a variety of operating systems may share
virtualized hardware resources.
[0039]      Network 225 includes one or more wired and/or wireless networks. For example,
network 225 may include a cellular network (e.g., a long-term evolution (LTE) network, a 3G
network, a code division multiple access (CDMA) network, etc.), a public land mobile network
(PLMN), a local area network (LAN), a wide area network (WAN), a metropolitan area
network (MAN), a telephone network (e.g., the Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN)),
a private network, an ad hoc network, an intranet, the Internet, a fiber optic-based network,
or the like, and/or a combination of these or other types of networks.
[0040]      The number and arrangement of devices and networks shown in Fig. 2 are
provided as an example.        In practice, there may be additional devices, fewer devices,
different devices, or differently arranged devices than those shown in Fig. 2. Furthermore,
two or more devices shown in Fig. 2 may be implemented within a single device, or a single
device shown in Fig. 2 may be implemented as multiple, distributed devices. Additionally,
one or more of the devices of environment 200 may perform one or more functions described
as being performed by another one or more devices of environment 200.
[0041]      Fig. 3 is a diagram of example components of a device 300. Device 300 may
correspond to user device 205, server device 210, and/or clinical trial platform 215. In some
implementations, user device 205, server device 210, and/or clinical trial platform 215 may
include one or more devices 300 and/or one or more components of device 300. As shown
in Fig. 3, device 300 may include a bus 310, a processor 320, a memory 330, a storage
component 340, an input component 350, an output component 360, and a communication
interface 370.

                                               14
[0042]      Bus 310 includes a component that permits communication               among    the
components of device 300.      Processor 320 is implemented in hardware, firmware, or a
combination of hardware and software. Processor 320 includes a processor (e.g., a central
processing unit (CPU), a graphics processing unit (GPU), and/or an accelerated processing
unit (APU)), a microprocessor, a microcontroller, and/or any processing component (e.g., a
field-programmable gate array (FPGA) and/or an application-specific integrated circuit
(ASIC)) that interprets and/or executes instructions. In some implementations, processor
320 includes one or more processors capable of being programmed to perform a function.
Memory 330 includes a random access memory (RAM), a read only memory (ROM), and/or
another type of dynamic or static storage device (e.g., a flash memory, a magnetic memory,
and/or an optical memory) that stores information and/or instructions for use by processor
320.
[0043]      Storage component 340 stores information and/or software related to the
operation and use of device 300. For example, storage component 340 may include a hard
disk (e.g., a magnetic disk, an optical disk, a magneto-optic disk, and/or a solid state disk),
a compact disc (CD), a digital versatile disc (DVD), a floppy disk, a cartridge, a magnetic
tape, and/or another type of non-transitory computer-readable medium, along with a
corresponding drive.
[0044]      Input component 350 includes a component that permits device 300 to receive
information, such as via user input (e.g., a touch screen display, a keyboard, a keypad, a
mouse, a button, a switch, and/or a microphone).         Additionally, or alternatively, input
component 350 may include a sensor for sensing information (e.g., a global positioning
system (GPS) component, an accelerometer, a gyroscope, and/or an actuator).             Output
component 360 includes a component that provides output information from device 300 (e.g.,
a display, a speaker, and/or one or more light-emitting diodes (LEDs)).
[0045]      Communication interface 370 includes a transceiver-like component (e.g., a
transceiver and/or a separate receiver and transmitter) that enables device 300 to
communicate with other devices, such as via a wired connection, a wireless connection, or
a combination of wired and wireless connections. Communication interface 370 may permit

                                                 15
device 300 to receive information from another device and/or provide information to another
device. For example, communication interface 370 may include an Ethernet interface, an
optical interface, a coaxial interface, an infrared interface, a radio frequency (RF) interface,
a universal serial bus (USB) interface, a Wi-Fi interface, a cellular network interface, or the
like.
[0046]      Device 300 may perform one or more processes described herein. Device 300
may perform these processes in response to processor 320 executing software instructions
stored by a non-transitory computer-readable medium, such as memory 330 and/or storage
component 340. A computer-readable medium is defined herein as a non-transitory memory
device. A memory device includes memory space within a single physical storage device or
memory space spread across multiple physical storage devices.
[0047]     Software instructions may be read into memory 330 and/or storage component
340 from another computer-readable medium or from another device via communication
interface 370. When executed, software instructions stored in memory 330 and/or storage
component 340 may cause processor 320 to perform one or more processes described
herein.   Additionally, or alternatively, hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in
combination with software instructions to perform one or more processes described herein.
Thus, implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of
hardware circuitry and software.
[0048]     The number and arrangement of components shown in Fig. 3 are provided as an
example. In practice, device 300 may include additional components, fewer components,
different components, or differently arranged components than those shown in Fig. 3.
Additionally, or alternatively, a set of components (e.g., one or more components) of device
300 may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another set of
components of device 300.
[0049]      Fig. 4 is a flow chart of an example process 400 for identifying potential
participants to be added to a clinical trial participation pool. In some implementations, one
or more process blocks of Fig. 4 may be performed by clinical trial platform 215. In some
implementations, one or more process blocks of Fig. 4 may be performed by another device

                                                   16
or a group of devices separate from or including clinical trial platform 215, such as user
device 205 and server device 210.
[0050]      As shown in Fig. 4, process 400 may include identifying a potential participant to
be added to a clinical trial participation pool (block 410). For example, clinical trial platform
215 may identify one or more potential participants to be considered for participation in
clinical trials.  In some implementations, clinical trial platform 215 may identify potential
participants based on potential participants opting into consideration for participation.
Additionally, or alternatively, clinical trial platform 215 may identify potential participants
based on past participation in a clinical trial. In some implementations, when clinical trial
platform 215 identifies potential participants, clinical trial platform 215 may add the identified
potential participants to a participant information data structure, as described below.
[0051]       In some implementations, a clinical trial participation pool may relate to a particular
type of clinical trial. In such a case, the clinical trial participation pool may be associated with
one or more particular criteria based on which to identify potential participants for the
particular type of clinical trial. Types of clinical trials may be defined based on a variety of
medical conditions, diseases, medications, medical devices, medical procedures or
circumstances, or combinations thereof. For example, a clinical trial type may relate to a
new medication, a new type of heart monitor, a specifically defined diet, a sleep study, a
behavioral disorder, substance abuse, weight loss, or the like.
[0052]       In some implementations, clinical trial platform 215 may identify a potential
participant based on an interaction with a call to action, such as an advertisement, an email,
a text message, a notification on a social network, a post on an internet forum or message
board, a prompt within an app, or the like. A call to action may be provided for display via a
user interface of user device 205.        For example, clinical trial platform 215 may identify a
plurality of potential participants based on respective interactions, by the plurality of potential
participants, with calls to action that include a link based on which to provide the participant
information. In some implementations, an invitation or advertisement may be provided to
user device 205 associated with a potential participant, and the potential participant may
interact with the user device 205 to indicate interest in selection as a potential participant. In

                                                  17
this way, clinical trial platform 215 permits targeting of particular demographics, regions, or
the like, based on the invitation or advertisement. Furthermore, by providing the call to action
to user device 205 associated with potential participants, clinical trial platform 215 may
increase a rate of interaction with the call to action.
[0053]       In some implementations, clinical trial platform 215 may identify a potential
participant based on the potential participant having participated in a clinical trial in the past.
For example, when a participant has previously participated in a clinical trial, the participant
information data structure may already store participant information relating to the
participant.     For example, the participant information data structure may store profiles
corresponding to participants. In such a case, clinical trial platform 215 may access the
participant information data structure to identify potential participants based on matching
terms, based on a relevance search, based on location, based on profiles associated with
the potential participants, or the like.
[0054]       In some implementations, clinical trial platform 215 may identify a potential
participant based on suitability, of the potential participant, for clinical trials. A number of
factors may relate to the suitability for a clinical trial. For example, clinical trial platform 215
may identify a potential participant based on the potential participant having a medical history
that matches criteria for inclusion in clinical trials. As another example, clinical trial platform
215 may identify a potential participant based on the potential participant having a medical
history that does not match criteria for exclusion from clinical trials. As yet another example,
clinical trial platform 215 may identify a potential participant based on the potential participant
being located near a location of the clinical trial.        As still another example, clinical trial
platform 215 may identify a potential participant based on the potential participant expressing
interest in remuneration for participation in clinical trials. As another example, clinical trial
platform 215 may identify a potential participant based on physical attributes such as height,
weight, or the like, satisfying a threshold. As still another example, clinical trial platform 215
may identify a potential participant based on participant demographics such as gender, age,
occupation, population density, ambient information associated with a potential participant
(e.g., weather, humidity, pollen count, etc.), or the like.

                                                     18
[0055]       As further shown in Fig. 4, process 400 may include providing, for the potential
participant, an information request for participant information associated with the potential
participant (block 420). For example, based on identifying the potential participant, clinical
trial platform 215 may provide an information request for the potential participant. In some
implementations, clinical trial platform 215 may provide the information request to a user
device 205 associated with the potential participant. For example, clinical trial platform 215
may determine a device identifier associated with user device 205, and may provide the
information request to user device 205 based on the device identifier. In this case, clinical
trial platform 215 may determine the device identifier based on an interaction with an
invitation, advertisement, or the like (e.g., when identifying the potential participant).
Additionally, or alternatively, clinical trial platform 215 may identify the device identifier based
on the participant information data structure (e.g., when the potential participant has
previously participated in one or more other clinical trials).
[0056]       In some implementations, clinical trial platform 215 may provide the information
request to obtain participant information associated with the potential participant.             For
example, the information request may include a link, an interface, or the like, via which user
device 205 may receive the participant information. Participant information may include any
information that is relevant or useful to administering a clinical trial. For example, participant
information may include information about medical history, demographics, personal
contacts, location, hobbies, diet, exercise habits, sleep habits, drug use, alcohol use, nicotine
use, psychological history, employment status, occupation, work schedule, or the like.
[0057]       In some implementations, the information request may include a deep link that is
associated with a particular location on server device 210. The deep link may provide access
to the particular location without having to access other sites or pages, open a new
application, route information via clinical trial platform 215, or the like. In this case, user
device 205 may provide the participant information directly to server device 210 based on
the link, the network address, or the like. In this way, computational resources of clinical trial
platform 215 and/or server device 210 are conserved that would otherwise be used to
provide information to server device 210 via clinical trial platform 215.

                                                     19
[0058]       As further shown in Fig. 4, process 400 may include receiving the participant
information based on the information request (block 430). For example, clinical trial platform
215 may receive the participant information. In this case, the participant information may be
received from participants (via user device 205) or from other sources (e.g., websites,
databases, subscriber information, or medical records). In some implementations, clinical
trial platform 215 may receive the participant information automatically (e.g., based on a link
from user device 205, based on user device 205 automatically providing such information,
or based on obtaining the information from social media or another publically available
source).
[0059]       In some implementations, server device 210 may receive the participant
information. For example, server device 210 may receive the participant information directly
from user device 205, based on a deep link, as described above. In this way, computing
resources of clinical trial platform 215 are conserved. As another example, server device
210 may receive the participant information via clinical trial platform 215, which may permit
clinical trial platform 215 to filter or process the participant information, thus conserving
resources of server device 210.
[0060]       As further shown in Fig. 4, process 400 may include adding the participant
information to a participant information data structure (block 440). For example, clinical trial
platform 215 may add the participant information to a participant information data structure.
Additionally, or alternatively, clinical trial platform 215 may provide the participant information
to another device (e.g., server device 210), which may add the participant information to the
participant information data structure.
[0061]       The participant information data structure may identify potential participants of the
clinical trial participation pool, and may identify participant information corresponding to the
potential participants. In some implementations, the participant information data structure
may be a database or an appropriate component of a database that may be queried for
participant information after the participant information has been added.
[0062]       In some implementations, clinical trial platform 215 may determine or calculate
participant information for inclusion in the participant information data structure based on

                                                   20
information associated with the potential participant. For example, clinical trial platform 215
may determine body mass index (BMI) of the potential participant based on a height and
weight of the potential participant.        As another example, clinical trial platform 215 may
determine a minority status based on location and demographic information associated with
the potential participant. In this way, the participant information data structure allows clinical
trial platform 215 to determine derivative information for use in selecting participants and/or
performing clinical trials, which enables large-scale data mining that would be difficult with
traditional screening methods.
[0063]       Although Fig. 4 shows example blocks of process 400, in some implementations,
process 400 may include additional blocks, fewer blocks, different blocks, or differently
arranged blocks than those depicted in Fig. 4. Additionally, or alternatively, two or more of
the blocks of process 400 may be performed in parallel.
[0064]       Fig. 5 is a flow chart of an example process 500 for selecting participants from a
clinical trial participation pool to participate in a clinical trial. In some implementations, one
or more process blocks of Fig. 5 may be performed by clinical trial platform 215. In some
implementations, one or more process blocks of Fig. 5 may be performed by another device
or a group of devices separate from or including clinical trial platform 215, such as user
device 205 and server device 210.
[0065]       As shown in Fig. 5, process 500 may include receiving trial information that
identifies one or more criteria for selecting participants in a clinical trial (block 510). For
example, clinical trial platform 215 may receive trial information (e.g., from user device 205
associated with an administrator of the clinical trial). In this case, the trial information may
identify one or more criteria for selecting participants for participation in a clinical trial. A
clinical trial may include any trial that is to be performed with regard to a group of participants.
For example, a clinical trial may be performed to determine the safety and/or effectiveness
of a medication, a device, a diagnostic product, or a treatment regimen.                   In some
implementations, participants may be selected from a clinical trial participation pool based
on the participant information data structure.

                                                 21
[0066]      In some implementations, the trial information may specify rules or criteria for
identifying selected participants. For example, a criterion may identify a requirement for
participation, an attribute that disqualifies a potential participant from participation, or the like.
In some implementations, the trial information may include a participant profile or a set of
seed participants. The participant profile or set of seed participants may identify one or more
participants that are associated with attributes based on which to identify selected
participants. For example, the set of seed participants may identify an ideal participant
profile. As another example, the set of seed participants may identify multiple participants
that are associated with a set of attributes based on which to select participants. In this case,
the set of seed participants may be determined based on participants in a past study. In
some implementations, clinical trial platform 215 may use the participant profile or set of
seed participants to select the selected participants from a pool.
[0067]      As further shown in Fig. 5, process 500 may include identifying one or more
selected participants based on a participant information data structure and based on the trial
information (block 520). For example, clinical trial platform 215 may identify one or more
selected participants for a clinical trial based on the trial information and based on a
participant information data structure. A selected participant may include a person, that is
identified by clinical trial platform 215 based on the participant information data structure, as
appropriate to participate in a clinical trial.
[0068]      In some implementations, all of the selected participants may participate in the
clinical trial.   Additionally, or alternatively, a subset of the selected participants may
participate in the clinical trial. For example, clinical trial platform 215 may select a particular
quality of selected participants (e.g., based on requirements of a clinical trial, based on an
amount of resources available for the clinical trial, etc.). Additionally, or alternatively, clinical
trial platform 215 may generate a ranked list of selected participants (e.g., based on
suitability of the selected participants for the clinical trial).
[0069]      In some implementations, clinical trial platform 215 may select the selected
participants based on comparing attributes of the selected participants to the trial information.
For example, the trial information may identify attributes of one or more particular participants

                                                  22
(e.g., a participant profile, a seed participant, etc.), and clinical trial platform 215 may identify
the one or more selected participants based on comparing the attributes of the one or more
particular participants to the attributes of the one or more selected participants. Additionally,
or alternatively, the trial information may identify one or more rules for selecting participants,
and clinical trial platform 215 may identify (e.g., automatically) selected participants that
match the one or more rules. In this way, clinical trial platform 215 conserves processor
resources that would otherwise be used to manually select participants, or would otherwise
be used to select participants based on a more complicated system, such as a holistic model.
[0070]      As an example, a clinical trial may test a blood pressure medication. The trial may
require participants to visit a clinical trial location once to receive the medication and a
monitoring device. Trial information for the clinical trial may specify rules that participants
must be male, between 45 and 65, with blood pressure that falls within a designated range,
who live within 25 miles of the testing facility. Further to the example, clinical trial platform
215 may compare attributes of potential participants to the specified rules to identify selected
participants. For example, a 47 year old male whose address is 17 miles from the testing
facility, and whose medical history indicates a blood pressure that falls within the specified
range, may be selected as a selected participant. In this way, selection of participants may
be improved by expanding a range of potential participants beyond a local area, therefore
potentially allowing for a larger sample of participants, a more effective sample due to a
potentially more specific selection of participants, and/or a more demographically diverse
range of participants.
[0071]      In some implementations, clinical trial platform 215 may identify selected
participants based on a model. For example, the model may receive trial information and
participant information (e.g., information identifying a set of potential participants), and may
output information identifying one or more selected participants of the set of potential
participants. In some implementations, the model may output a score for a participant based
on how closely a participant matches one or more rules. In this case, the model may identify
selected participants based on the score. For example, the model may select all participants
whose score satisfies a threshold. As another example, the model may rank participants

                                                    23
based on score, and may select a top ranking subset of the participants, such as a particular
number, or a particular percentage, of the participants.
[0072]       In some implementations, clinical trial platform 215 may train the model based on
the trial information.      For example, clinical trial platform 215 may use a set of seed
participants, and may use scores associated with the set of seed participants, as a training
set for the model. In this way, clinical trial platform 215 improves accuracy of the model. In
such a case, clinical trial platform 215 may update the model.           For example, clinical trial
platform 215 may update the model based on information identifying selected participants
that are actually used for the clinical trial. As another example, clinical trial platform 215 may
update the model based on user-inputted information indicating whether the scores
associated with the selected participants are accurate. In this way, clinical trial platform 215
improves accuracy of the model and conserves processor and worker resources that would
otherwise be used to specify manual rules.
[0073]       As further shown in Fig. 5, process 500 may include determining that the one or
more selected participants are to participate in the clinical trial (block 530). For example,
clinical trial platform 215 may determine that the one or more selected participants are to
participate in the trial. In some implementations, clinical trial platform 215 may determine
that every selected participant is to participate in the clinical trial (e.g., automatically), which
conserves computing resources that would otherwise be used to identify a subset of selected
participants that are to participate in the trial.
[0074]       In some implementations, clinical trial platform 215 may identify a subset of the
selected participants to participate. For example, clinical trial platform 215 may select top
ranked selected participants (e.g., based on scores or ranks associated with the selected
participants), participants that are closest to a particular location, geographically diverse
participants, or the like. In this way, clinical trial platform 215 conserves computing resources
that would otherwise be used to process a larger number of participants. Additionally, or
alternatively, clinical trial platform 215 may identify participants to participate in a trial based
on user input.       For example, clinical trial platform 215 may provide a list of selected
participants to user device 205, and user device 205 may receive an interaction to select one

                                                  24
or more of the selected participants to participate in the trial. In this way, clinical trial platform
215 permits training of the model for identifying the selected participants based on the user
selections.
[0075]       As further shown in Fig. 5, process 500 may include obtaining enrollment
information associated with the one or more selected participants (block 540). For example,
clinical trial platform 215 may obtain enrollment information associated with the one or more
selected participants. Enrollment information may be any information, not identified by the
participant information data structure, that is needed to administer the clinical trial.           For
example, enrollment information may include informed consent information, future location
information (e.g., plans of a participant to move or be unavailable in the future), information
from parties associated with the selected participant (e.g., a recommendation, etc.),
additional medical information, updates to medical information, user account information
(e.g., if the selected participant is to self-report information via a portal), payment information
for the participant, or the like.
[0076]       In some implementations, clinical trial platform 215 may obtain enrollment
information from the one or more selected participants. For example, clinical trial platform
215 may obtain the enrollment information based on a request for such information. As
another example, clinical trial platform 215 may obtain the enrollment information based on
providing a website or interface via which the one or more selected participants may input
the information.
[0077]       In some implementations, clinical trial platform 215 may identify enrollment
information to be obtained with regard to the one or more selected participants. For example,
clinical trial platform 215 may determine, based on the trial information, that each selected
participant is to sign a consent form. In such a case, clinical trial platform 215 may provide
the consent form to user devices 205 associated with each selected participant. As another
example, clinical trial platform 215 may determine that one or more required values of
participant information are not included in the participant information data structure, and may
obtain, from user devices 205 associated with the one or more selected participants, the one
or more required values of participant information.         In this way, clinical trial platform 215

                                                   25
automatically identifies and obtains enrollment information based on trial information, which
reduces manual input required to administrate a clinical trial.
[0078]      In some implementations, clinical trial platform 215 may cause another entity to
obtain the enrollment information. For example, clinical trial platform 215 may automatically
schedule an appointment for the participant to visit a medical practitioner or onboarding
facility, and the participant may provide this information at the appointment.           In this way,
organizational resources and computational resources are conserved that would otherwise
be used to manually identify enrollment information to be obtained, and to manually schedule
appointments to obtain the identified enrollment information.
[0079]      In some implementations, clinical trial platform 215 may automatically obtain the
enrollment information. For example, clinical trial platform 215 may automatically obtain the
enrollment information from a social media profile of a user, or from a database of user
information.     In this way, clinical trial platform 215 conserves computing and worker
resources that would otherwise be used to manually obtain or provide the enrollment
information. Furthermore, as enrollment processing is performed by clinical trial platform
215, enrollment of a participant may not require the participant to travel to a medical facility,
thus improving rates of participation and reducing expense.
[0080]      As further shown in Fig. 5, process 500 may include storing and/or providing the
enrollment information (block 550). For example, clinical trial platform 215 may store and/or
provide the enrollment information. As a particular example, clinical trial platform 215 may
add the enrollment information to the participant information data structure, or may provide
the enrollment information to server device 210 to be added to the participant information
data structure. In this way, the enrollment information can be used to select the participant
for participation in other clinical trials, or to administer the other clinical trials. Furthermore,
adding the enrollment information to the participant information data structure enables
analysis of the enrollment information and the participant information data structure, which
may permit determination of research conclusions, identification of unexpected correlations,
or the like.

                                                    26
[0081]       As another example, clinical trial platform 215 may provide the enrollment
information to a party associated with the clinical trial (e.g., a field nurse, a medical records
center, a doctor's office, etc.). As yet another example, clinical trial platform 215 may store
the enrollment information locally. By storing the enrollment information locally, clinical trial
platform 215 improves efficiency of administering the clinical trial, when clinical trial platform
215 is to administer the clinical trial.
[0082]       By selecting trial participants in the manner described above, clinical trial platform
215 may improve matching of participants with clinical trials.              Furthermore, clinical trial
platform 215 may reduce reliance on humans to gather information associated with clinical
trials. Additionally, by providing a deep link as described above, clinical trial platform 215
conserves processor and storage resources of clinical trial platform 215 by automatically
adding data to the participant information data structure (e.g., stored by server device 210).
Further, by identifying participants based on a participant information data structure, clinical
trial platform 215 saves organizational and computational resources that would otherwise be
used to obtain, from participants, information based on which to select the participants.
[0083]       Although Fig. 5 shows example blocks of process 500, in some implementations,
process 500 may include additional blocks, fewer blocks, different blocks, or differently
arranged blocks than those depicted in Fig. 5. Additionally, or alternatively, two or more of
the blocks of process 500 may be performed in parallel.
[0084]       Fig. 6 is a flow chart of an example process 600 for administering a clinical trial.
In some implementations, one or more process blocks of Fig. 6 may be performed by clinical
trial platform 215. In some implementations, one or more process blocks of Fig. 6 may be
performed by another device or a group of devices separate from or including clinical trial
platform 215, such as user device 205 and server device 210.
[0085]       As shown in Fig. 6, process 600 may include receiving administration information
that relates to participation in a clinical trial by a set of participants (block 610). For example,
clinical trial platform 215 may receive administration information.               The administration
information may relate to participation in a clinical trial by a set of participants, or may relate
to administering the clinical trial for the set of participants. For example, the administration

                                                 27
information may include or identify clinical, personal, and ambient information to be gathered
regarding participation in the clinical trial. The clinical information may include information
obtained by medically regulated devices or information obtained in a fashion that satisfies
regulatory requirements. The personal information may include information gathered by a
user device 205 associated with the participant, in a fashion that may or may not satisfy
regulatory requirements.      For example, the clinical and personal information may include
information identifying medications, dosages administered, physiological measurements
(body temperature, heart rate, blood pressure, etc.), chemical measurements (oxygen,
glucose, insulin, carbon dioxide, etc.), observations (mental or physical responsiveness,
mood, etc.), calorie intake, change in bodyweight, activity levels, sleep patterns, feedback
from health care workers or from monitors or devices that measure any of the above or other
attributes, or the like. Additionally, or alternatively, the administration may identify ambient
information to be gathered. Ambient information may include ambient data, such as external
temperature, humidity, pollen count correlated to the time and location a measurement is
taken, or the like.
[0086]     As another example, the administration information may identify a length of time
or a number of visits associated with the clinical trial.         As yet another example, the
administration information may identify requirements of the clinical trial, such as things that
a participant must do, eat, read, etc. for participation to be valid or rewarded, things that a
participant is not allowed to do, eat, etc., places that a participant must go or must not go,
activity levels a participant must exceed or not exceed, physiological or chemical
measurement thresholds that a participant must exceed or not exceed, occupational tasks
that a participant must be able to perform, or the like.
[0087]     As further shown in Fig. 6, process 600 may include administering the clinical trial
based on the administration information (block 620). For example, clinical trial platform 215
may administer the clinical trial. To administer the clinical trial, clinical trial platform 215 may
obtain clinical information, personal information, and/or ambient information relating to
participation in the trial, as described in more detail in connection with block 630, below.
Additionally, or alternatively, clinical trial platform 215 may provide, to user devices 205
associated with participants, adherence prompts relating to requirements of the clinical trial,

                                                28
as described in more detail in connection with block 640, below. In some implementations,
clinical trial platform 215 may administer the clinical trial automatically (e.g., without user
input).    In this way, clinical trial platform 215 reduces user input, thereby conserving
computing and organizational resources.
[0088]       As further shown in Fig. 6, process 600 may include obtaining clinical information,
personal information, and/or ambient information relating to participation in the clinical trial
(block 630). For example, when administering the clinical trial, clinical trial platform 215 may
obtain clinical information relating to participation in the clinical trial. As explained above,
clinical information includes information obtained from medically regulated devices or data
otherwise collected in a fashion that satisfies regulatory requirements, personal information
may include non-regulated information gathered by a user device such as a wearable device,
and ambient information may include information regarding an environment associated with
a participant, such as weather information, pollen count, humidity, or the like.
[0089]       In some implementations, clinical trial platform 215 may obtain the clinical
information, personal information, and/or ambient information from user device 205
associated with a participant. For example, clinical trial platform 215 may cause user device
205 to provide a field of a graphical user interface, in which the user can input information.
In this way, clinical trial platform 215 improves the likelihood of obtaining timely and/or
accurate information.
[0090]       In some implementations, clinical trial platform 215 may obtain the clinical
information, personal information, and/or ambient information based on providing a secure
portal via which the user can provide the information. For example, clinical trial platform 215
may require a participant to provide one or more credentials to access the secure portal. As
another example, clinical trial platform 215 may provide the secure portal via a secure
connection (e.g., a Hypertext Transfer Protocol secure (HTTPS) connection, a Transport
Layer Security (TLS) session, etc.). As yet another example, clinical trial platform 215 may
require user device 205 to be located in a secure location (e.g., a medical facility, a location
with a secure Internet connection, etc.) to provide the clinical information, personal
information, and/or ambient information via the secure portal.           In this way, clinical trial

                                                    29
platform 215 improves security of the clinical information, personal information, and/or
ambient information.
[0091]       As yet another example, clinical trial platform 215 may receive or obtain the clinical
information, personal information, and/or ambient information automatically, such as based
on a communication with a sensor associated with user device 205 (e.g., a heart rate
monitor, an onboard microphone, a Bluetooth-connected device, a location sensor, etc.). In
such a case, clinical trial platform 215 may provide a message to user device 205 to cause
user device 205 to obtain the clinical information, personal information, and/or ambient
information. Additionally, or alternatively, clinical trial platform 215 may cause user device
205 to obtain clinical information, personal information, and/or ambient information based on
a schedule (e.g., may cause user device 205 to perform a periodic measurement, may cause
user device 205 to periodically prompt a participant for information, etc.). In this way, clinical
trial platform 215 conserves computing resources of user device 205 that would otherwise
be used to receive the clinical information, personal information, and/or ambient information
based on manual input, and improves accuracy of the clinical information.
[0092]       As further shown in Fig. 6, process 600 may include providing adherence prompts
to improve adherence to requirements of the clinical trial (block 640). For example, clinical
trial platform 215 may provide an adherence prompt to user device 205 associated with a
participant.     In some implementations, when administering the clinical trial, clinical trial
platform 215 may determine, based on clinical information, personal information, and/or
ambient information received from user device 205 associated with a particular participant,
that the particular participant has violated a particular rule of the rules associated with the
clinical trial.   In this case, clinical trial platform 215 may provide, to user device 205, a
message indicating that the particular participant has violated the particular rule. User device
205 may provide the message to the particular participant, and may thereby improve
adherence of the particular participant to the particular rule and/or safety of the particular
participant.
[0093]       In some implementations, the adherence prompt may identify a requirement, and
may indicate that the participant is to comply with the requirement.         For example, if the

                                                30
participant leaves a particular area, the adherence prompt may prompt the participant to go
back into the particular area. As another example, the adherence prompt may prompt the
participant to reduce or increase a level of physical activity based on whether the participant's
heart rate satisfies a threshold. As yet another example, if the participant does not move for
an amount of time that satisfies a threshold, the adherence prompt may prompt the
participant to move. As still another example, if the participant has not provided clinical
information or personal information for a period of time that exceeds a threshold, the
adherence prompt may prompt the participant to provide information and/or may provide an
interface for receiving the clinical information or personal information. As another example,
the adherence prompt may remind the participant to take medication.               As yet another
example, the adherence prompt may tell the participant to schedule a meeting.
[0094]     In some implementations, the adherence prompt may relate to ambient
information associated with a participant.         For example, assume that a participant
participates in a migraine medication trial. Assume further that an administrator of the trial
knows that migraine headaches are more sever on hot, humid days. In such a case, when
administering the trial, clinical trial platform 215 may obtain ambient information for
participants, and may generate adherence prompts based on the ambient information. For
example, when temperature and humidity values satisfy a threshold, clinical trial platform
215 may automatically provide an adherence prompt to participants indicating to stay in an
air conditioned area and to stay properly hydrated.       In this way, clinical trial platform 215
reduces variability of clinical trial outcomes based on ambient weather and other external
factors.
[0095]     In some implementations, the adherence prompt may include a message (e.g., an
email message, a text message, a push notification), a phone call (e.g., an automated phone
call, a phone call connected with a medical professional, etc.), an app notification (e.g., via
an app installed on user device 205 and associated with clinical trial platform 215), or the
like. In some implementations, clinical trial platform 215 may cause user device 205 to
perform an action based on the adherence prompt. For example, when clinical trial platform
215 determines that a participant has failed to take a medication on schedule, clinical trial

                                                 31
platform 215 may cause user device 205 to generate a set of scheduled reminders to cause
the participant to take the medication on schedule.
[0096]       By providing adherence prompts as described, clinical trial platform 215 improves
adherence to a trial protocol, thus improving the sufficiency, quality, and/or relevancy of the
data, and improves safety of the clinical trial. Furthermore, clinical trial platform 215 reduces
a need for a medical professional to administer such information.
[0097]       As further shown in Fig. 6, process 600 may include updating a participant
information data structure based on the clinical information, the personal information, the
ambient information, and/or the adherence prompts (block 650). For example, clinical trial
platform 215 may update the participant information data structure based on the clinical
information, the personal information, the ambient information, and/or the adherence
prompts.       In some implementations, clinical trial platform 215 may provide the clinical
information, the personal information, the ambient information, and/or information relating to
the adherence prompts to a device that stores the participant information data structure, such
as server device 210, for addition to the participant information data structure. In this way,
clinical trial platform 215 saves storage resources of clinical trial platform 215. Additionally,
or alternatively, clinical trial platform 215 may store the clinical information, the personal
information, the ambient information, and/or the adherence prompts locally. In this way,
clinical trial platform 215 improves efficiency of analyzing data associated with the participant
information data structure, of querying data from the participant information data structure,
and of identifying participants for later clinical trials.
[0098]       In some implementations, clinical trial platform 215 may identify times and subject
matter associated with the adherence prompts. For example, when clinical trial platform 215
determines that a participant is not adherent to a rule, clinical trial platform 215 may provide
an adherence prompt, and may add, to the participant information data structure, information
that identifies the adherence prompt (e.g., a time associated with the adherence prompt, a
subject matter of the rule, a remedial action associated with the adherence prompt, etc.). In
this way, clinical trial platform 215 may audit adherence of a participant to a program and
determine whether the adherence prompts are useful. Additionally, or alternatively, clinical

                                                  32
trial platform 215 may facilitate analysis of the adherence prompts to determine clinical
conclusions regarding treatment, adherence, or the like.
[0099]       In some implementations, clinical trial platform 215 may selectively update the
participant information data structure based on content of information. For example, clinical
trial platform 215 may not add clinical information that is irrelevant to a clinical trial, may not
add information that is not useful to selecting participants, or the like. In this way, clinical
trial platform 215 conserves computing resources that would otherwise be used to store all
participant information and/or adherence information.
[00100]      As further shown in Fig. 6, process 600 may include storing and/or providing the
clinical information, the personal information, the ambient information, and/or the participant
information data structure (block 660). For example, clinical trial platform 215 may provide
the clinical information, the personal information, and/or the ambient information to an
administrator of the clinical study. In some implementations, clinical trial platform 215 may
provide the participant information data structure (e.g., for storage by another device or for
analysis by another device).
[00101]      In some implementations, clinical trial platform 215 may analyze the participant
information data structure. For example, clinical trial platform 215 may identify unexpected
correlations in patient information based on a clinical trial (e.g., based on the clinical
information, the personal information and/or the ambient information). As another example,
clinical trial platform 215 may identify effectiveness of a clinical trial. As yet another example,
clinical trial platform 215 may determine modifications to adherence prompts based on
whether adherence prompts motivated adherence to requirements. As still another example,
clinical trial platform 215 may identify outlier participants based on results of clinical trial.
[00102]      In some implementations, clinical trial platform 215 may cause a participant to be
rewarded or paid. For example, clinical trial platform 215 may determine that the clinical trial
is complete based on the clinical information, and may cause an entity to provide payment
or another type of reward to a participant (e.g., automatically, without user interaction). In
some implementations, clinical trial platform 215 may notify a participant that a clinical trial
has ended.        Additionally, or alternatively, clinical trial platform 215 may automatically

                                                 33
schedule a meeting (e.g., an appointment with a medical practitioner) for one or more
participants in a clinical trial.
[00103]      Based on administering the clinical trial as described above, the clinical trial
platform may improve adherence of participants to the requirements of clinical trials. Further,
the clinical trial platform may reduce reliance on humans (e.g., local medical professionals)
to gather information associated with clinical trials. Additionally, automatic gathering of
clinical information and/or personal information may reduce or eliminate office visits, thus
conserving resources, enabling access to a larger range of participants, and improving
accuracy of information. Furthermore, enrichment of a participant information data structure
based on clinical information, personal information, ambient information, and adherence
prompts enables analysis of patient information to identify trends and correlations, and
enables reuse of the participant information data structure to select participants for future
clinical trials.
[00104]      Although Fig. 6 shows example blocks of process 600, in some implementations,
process 600 may include additional blocks, fewer blocks, different blocks, or differently
arranged blocks than those depicted in Fig. 6. Additionally, or alternatively, two or more of
the blocks of process 600 may be performed in parallel.
[00105]      Implementations described herein provide a clinical trial platform for clinical trials.
The clinical trial platform may receive participant information for people who are interested
in participating in clinical trials, and may add those people to a pool of available participants.
The clinical trial platform may select participants for clinical trials from the pool based on
attributes of the available participants. The clinical trial platform may automatically obtain
additional information from the selected participants, such as signatures, consent, or the like.
Based on the additional information, the clinical trial platform may create or update a data
structure such as a database. In administering the clinical trial, the clinical trial platform may
collect clinical information and may improve adherence to rules based on providing
adherence prompts to the participants.         The clinical trial platform may store the newly
obtained information in association with participant profiles.

                                                   34
[00106]    In this way, the clinical trial platform may enable analysis of participant information
gathered in many different clinical trials, and may reduce double-keying of information.
Additionally, the clinical trial platform may improve matching of participants with clinical trials.
Furthermore, the clinical trial platform may improve adherence of participants to the
requirements of the clinical trials. Still further, the clinical trial platform may reduce reliance
on humans, to gather information associated with clinical trials. Additionally, the clinical trial
platform may improve security of the clinical trial process.
[00107]    The foregoing disclosure provides illustration and description, but is not intended
to be exhaustive or to limit the implementations to the precise form disclosed. Modifications
and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure or may be acquired from practice
of the implementations.
[00108]    As used herein, the term component is intended to be broadly construed as
hardware, firmware, and/or a combination of hardware and software.
[00109]    Some implementations are described herein in connection with thresholds. As
used herein, satisfying a threshold may refer to a value being greater than the threshold,
more than the threshold, higher than the threshold, greater than or equal to the threshold,
less than the threshold, fewer than the threshold, lower than the threshold, less than or equal
to the threshold, equal to the threshold, etc.
[00110]    Certain user interfaces have been described herein and/or shown in the figures.
A user interface may include a graphical user interface, a non-graphical user interface, a
text-based user interface, etc. A user interface may provide information for display. In some
implementations, a user may interact with the information, such as by providing input via an
input component of a device that provides the user interface for display.                 In some
implementations, a user interface may be configurable by a device and/or a user (e.g., a user
may change the size of the user interface, information provided via the user interface, a
position of information provided via the user interface, etc.). Additionally, or alternatively, a
user interface may be pre-configured to a standard configuration, a specific configuration
based on a type of device on which the user interface is displayed, and/or a set of

                                              35
configurations based on capabilities and/or specifications associated with a device on which
the user interface is displayed.
[00111]     It will be apparent that systems and/or methods, described herein, may be
implemented in different forms of hardware, firmware, or a combination of hardware and
software. The actual specialized control hardware or software code used to implement these
systems and/or methods is not limiting of the implementations. Thus, the operation and
behavior of the systems and/or methods were described herein without reference to specific
software code-it being understood that software and hardware can be designed to
implement the systems and/or methods based on the description herein.
[00112]     Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and/or
disclosed in the specification, these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of
possible implementations. In fact, many of these features may be combined in ways not
specifically recited in the claims and/or disclosed in the specification.      Although each
dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one claim, the disclosure of
possible implementations includes each dependent claim in combination with every other
claim in the claim set.
[00113]     No element, act, or instruction used herein should be construed as critical or
essential unless explicitly described as such. Also, as used herein, the articles "a" and "an"
are intended to include one or more items, and may be used interchangeably with "one or
more." Furthermore, as used herein, the term "set" is intended to include one or more items
(e.g., related items, unrelated items, a combination of related and unrelated items, etc.), and
may be used interchangeably with "one or more." Where only one item is intended, the term
"one" or similar language is used. Also, as used herein, the terms "has," "have," "having," or
the like are intended to be open-ended terms. Further, the phrase "based on" is intended to
mean "based, at least in part, on" unless explicitly stated otherwise.
[00114]     Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to mean the inclusion of a stated feature or step, or group

                                               36
of features or steps, but not the exclusion of any other feature or step, or group of features
or steps.
[00115]    The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken
as an acknowledgement, or any suggestion that, the prior art forms of the common general
knowledge.

                                                   37
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.      A device, including:
        one or more processors that:
                receive trial information and identify rules or requirements associated with a
        clinical trial;
                identify a plurality of participants associated with the clinical trial;
                automatically obtain, from a user device associated with a particular
        participant, of the plurality of participants, first information regarding the particular
        participant,
                        the first information relating to a biometric of the particular participant or
                an environment associated with the particular participant;
                determine that the first information indicates that the particular participant does
        not satisfy a particular rule or requirement associated with the clinical trial;
                provide, to the user device, a prompt indicating that the particular participant
        does not satisfy the particular rule or requirement; and
                store or provide the first information for addition to a profile associated with the
        particular participant.
2.      A device according to claim 1, where the one or more processors, when identifying
the plurality of participants, further:
        select the plurality of participants from a plurality of potential participants based on
the trial information and based on participant information associated with the plurality of
potential participants,
                the profile associated with the particular participant identifying participant
        information associated with the particular participant.
3.      A device according to either claim 1 or claim 2, where the one or more processors
further:
        identify the plurality of potential participants based on respective interactions, by the
plurality of potential participants, with a call to action,

                                                38
               the call to action including a link based on which to provide the participant
       information.
4.     A device according to any one of the preceding claims, where the one or more
processors, when obtaining the first information, further:
               obtain the first information via a secure connection based on the user device
       being located at a particular location.
5.     A device according to any one of the preceding claims, where the one or more
processors, when obtaining the first information:
       cause a sensor associated with the user device to obtain the first information; and
       obtain the first information from the user device in real time or substantially real time.
6.     A device according to claim 5, where the one or more processors, when causing the
user device to perform the action:
       cause the user device to display information that identifies the particular rule,
               the information that identifies the particular rule to indicate that the particular
       participant has violated the particular rule.
7.     A device according to according to any one of the preceding claims, where the one or
more processors, when determining that the particular participant does not satisfy the
particular rule or requirement further:
       determine that the particular participant has violated the particular rule based on at
least one of:
               a measurement obtained by the user device,
               location information obtained by the user device, or
               information inputted to the user device.
8.     A device according to any one of the preceding claims, where the one or more
processors, when identifying the plurality of participants:
       identify the plurality of participants based on a model,

                                                   39
                the model receiving, as input, participant information corresponding to the
        plurality of potential participants, and the trial information; and
                the model outputting information that identifies the plurality of participants.
9.      A method, including:
        receiving, by a first device, trial information that identifies rules or requirements
associated with a clinical trial;
        identifying, by the device, a plurality of participants associated with the clinical trial;
        automatically obtaining, by the first device and from a second device associated with
a particular participant, of the plurality of participants, first information regarding the particular
participant,
                the first information relating to a biometric of the particular participant or
        environmental conditions associated with the particular participant;
        determining, by the first device and based on the first information, that the particular
participant has violated a particular rule or requirement associated with the clinical trial;
        providing, by the first device and to the second device, a prompt indicating that the
particular participant has violated the particular rule or requirement; and
        store or provide the first information for addition to a profile associated with the
particular participant.
10.     A method according to claim 9, where identifying the plurality of participants includes:
        selecting the plurality of participants from a plurality of potential participants based on
a model,
                the model receiving, as input, the trial information and participant information
        that identifies attributes of the plurality of potential participants; and
                the model outputting information that identifies the plurality of participants and
        information that identifies one or more scores corresponding to the plurality of
        participants,
                         the scores being generated based on the participant information and the
                trial information, and

                                                   40
                        the scores indicating suitability of the plurality of participants for the
                clinical trial.
11.     A method according to either claim 9 or claim 10, further including:
        generating an updated model based on information indicating whether the plurality of
participants are appropriate for the clinical trial; and
        identifying another one or more participants for participation in the clinical trial based
on the updated model.
12.     A method according to claim 10, where the trial information identifies attributes of one
or more seed participants; and
        where identifying the plurality of participants includes:
                identifying the plurality of participants based on comparing the attributes of the
        one or more seed participants to the attributes of the plurality of participants.
13.     A method according to any one of claims 9 to 12, where administering the clinical trial
includes:
        providing a request for the first information to a user device associated with a
particular participant; and
        receiving, from the user device and based on the request, the first information.
14.     A method according to any one of claims 9 to 13, where the first information includes
one or more of:
        information obtained from a medically regulated device or data collected in a fashion
that satisfies regulatory requirements, or
        biometric information obtained by a sensor of the second device.
15.     A method according to any one of claims 9 to 14, where the particular rule or
requirement relates to compliance of the particular participant with the clinical trial or safety
of the particular participant.

                                                  41
16.    A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions, the instructions
including:
       one or more instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the
one or more processors to:
               receive trial information that identifies rules or requirements associated with a
       clinical trial;
               identify a plurality of participants associated with the clinical trial;
               automatically obtain, from a user device associated with a particular
       participant, of the plurality of participants, first information regarding the particular
       participant,
                       the first information relating to a biometric of the particular participant or
               an environment associated with the particular participant, and
                       the first information being obtained via a secure connection;
               determine that the first information indicates that the particular participant does
       not satisfy a particular rule or requirement associated with the clinical trial;
               provide, to the user device, a prompt indicating that the particular participant
       does not satisfy the particular rule or requirement; and
               store or provide the first information for addition to a profile associated with the
       particular participant.
17.    A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 16, where the one or
more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more
processors to:
       select the plurality of participants from a plurality of potential participants,
               the plurality of participants being selected based on profiles associated with
       the plurality of participants.
18.    A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to either claim 16 or claim 17,
where the profiles associated with the plurality of participants identify one or more of:
       information regarding biometrics of the plurality of participants,
       locations associated with the plurality of participants,

                                                   42
        information gathered in connection with one or more other clinical trials, or
        other clinical trials in which the plurality of participants have participated.
19.     A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to any one of claims 16 to 18,
where the one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further
cause the one or more processors to:
        obtain, from the plurality of participants, second information based on identifying the
plurality of participants,
                the second information to include at least one of:
                        medical information,
                        consent information regarding consent to participate in the clinical trial,
                        one or more credentials associated with the plurality of participants, or
                        payment information associated with the one or more selected
                participants.
20.     A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 19, where the one or
more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to identify the plurality of
participants, further cause the one or more processors to:
        identify the plurality of participants based on respective interactions, by the plurality
of participants, with a call to action,
                the call to action including a link based on which to provide the second
        information.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
