ABSTRACT
The present disclosure relates to materials and methods of conjugating a water soluble
polymer to a therapeutic protein.

   THERAPEUTIC PROTEINS WITH INCREASED HALF-LIFE AND METHODS OF
                                        PREPARING SAME
[0001]        This application is a divisional of Application No. <removed-apn>, filed 5 October
2017, which is a divisional of Application No. 2012262428, filed 25 May 2012, the entire
contents of which are incorporated herein by way of cross-reference.
                                   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001a]       The present disclosure relates to materials and methods for conjugating a water
soluble polymer to a therapeutic protein.
                             BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]        The preparation of conjugates by forming a covalent linkage between a water
soluble polymer and a therapeutic protein can be carried out by a variety of chemical methods.
PEGylation of polypeptide drugs protects them in circulation and improves their
pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic profiles (Harris and Chess, Nat Rev Drug Discov.
2003; 2:214-21). The PEGylation process attaches repeating units of ethylene glycol
(polyethylene glycol (PEG)) to a polypeptide drug. PEG molecules have a large
hydrodynamic volume (5-10 times the size of globular proteins), are highly water soluble and
hydrated, non-toxic, non-immunogenic and rapidly cleared from the body. PEGylation of
molecules can lead to increased resistance of drugs to enzymatic degradation, increased half
life in vivo, reduced dosing frequency, decreased immunogenicity, increased physical and
thermal stability, increased solubility, increased liquid stability, and reduced aggregation. The
first PEGylated drugs were approved by the FDA in the early 1990s. Since then, the FDA has
approved several PEGylated drugs for oral, injectable, and topical administration.
[0003]        Polysialic acid (PSA), also referred to as colominic acid (CA), is a naturally
occurring polysaccharide. It is a homopolymer of N-acetylneuraminic acid with a(2->8)
ketosidic linkage and contains vicinal diol groups at its non-reducing end. It is negatively
charged and a natural constituent of the human body. It can easily be produced from bacteria in
large quantities and with pre-determined physical characteristics (US Patent No.
5,846,951). Because the bacterially-produced PSA is chemically and immunologically identical
to PSA produced in the human body, bacterial PSA is non-immunogenic, even when coupled to
proteins. Unlike some polymers, PSA acid is biodegradable. Covalent coupling of colominic
acid to catalase and asparaginase has been shown to increase enzyme stability in the presence of
proteolytic enzymes or blood plasma. Comparative studies in vivo with
                                                  -1 -

polysialylated and unmodified asparaginase revealed that polysialylation increased the half
life of the enzyme (Fernandes and Gregoriadis, Int J Pharm. 2001;217:215-24).
[0004]      Coupling of PEG-derivatives to peptides or proteins is reviewed by Roberts et al.
(Adv Drug Deliv Rev 2002;54:459-76). One approach for coupling water soluble polymers
to therapeutic proteins is the conjugation of the polymers via the carbohydrate moieties of the
protein. Vicinal hydroxyl (OH) groups of carbohydrates in proteins can be easily oxidized
with sodium periodate (NaIO4) to form active aldehyde groups (Rothfus and Smith, J Biol
Chem 1963; 238:1402-10; van Lenten and Ashwell, J Biol Chem 1971;246:1889-94).
Subsequently the polymer can be coupled to the aldehyde groups of the carbohydrate by use
of reagents containing, for example, an active hydrazide group (Wilchek M and Bayer EA,
Methods Enzymol 1987;138:429-42). A more recent technology is the use of reagents
containing aminooxy groups which react with aldehydes to form oxime linkages (WO
96/40662, W02008/025856).
[0005]      Additional examples describing conjugation of a water soluble polymer to a
therapeutic protein are described in WO 06/071801 which teaches the oxidation of
carbohydrate moieties in Von Willebrand factor and subsequent coupling to PEG using
hydrazide chemistry; US Publication No. 2009/0076237 which teaches the oxidation of
rFVIII and subsequent coupling to PEG and other water soluble polymers (e.g. PSA, HES,
dextran) using hydrazide chemistry; WO 2008/025856 which teaches oxidation of different
coagulation factors, e.g. rFIX, FVIII and FVIla and subsequent coupling to e.g., PEG, using
aminooxy chemistry by forming an oxime linkage; and US Patent No. 5,621,039 which
teaches the oxidation of FIX and subsequent coupling to PEG using hydrazide chemistry.
[0006]      Recently, an improved method was described comprising mild periodate oxidation
of sialic acids to generate aldehydes followed by reaction with an aminooxy group containing
reagent in the presence of catalytic amounts of aniline (Dirksen A., and Dawson PE,
Bioconjugate Chem. 2008;19,2543-8; and Zeng Y et al., Nature Methods 2009;6:207-9). The
aniline catalysis dramatically accelerates the oxime ligation, allowing the use of very low
concentrations of the reagent. The use of nucleophilic catalysts are also described in Dirksen,
A., et al., J Am Chem Soc., 128:15602-3 (2006); Dirksen, A., et al., Angew chem. Int Ed.,
45:7581-4 (2006); Kohler, J.J., ChemBioChem., 10:2147-50 (2009); Giuseppone, N., et al., J
Am Chem Soc., 127:5528-39 (2005); and Thygesen, M.B., et al., J Org Chem., 75:1752-5
(2010).
                                               -2-

[0007]      Notwithstanding the aforementioned techniques and reagents, there remains a need
in the art for materials and methods for conjugating water soluble polymers to therapeutic
proteins with minimum process steps and with high efficiency, while increasing half-life and
retaining biological activity.
                              SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0008]      The present disclosure provides materials and methods for conjugating polymers to
proteins that improves the protein's pharmacodynamic and/or pharmacokinetic properties
while maximizing the yields of conjugation reactions.
[0009]      In one embodiment of the present disclosure, a method of preparing a therapeutic
protein conjugate is provided comprising the step of contacting a therapeutic protein, or
biologically-active fragment thereof, with a thiol reductant and a water soluble polymer, or
functional derivative thereof, under conditions that (a) produce a reduced cysteine sulfhydryl
group on the therapeutic protein, and (b) allow conjugation of the water-soluble polymer to
the reduced cysteine sulfhydryl group; said therapeutic protein having an amino acid
sequence with no more than one accessible cysteine sulhydryl group.
[0010]      In another embodiment, the aforementioned method is provided wherein the
therapeutic protein is selected from the group consisting of a protein of the serpin superfamily
selected from the group consisting of: AIPI (alpha-I proteinase inhibitor), or A1AT (alpha-I
antitrypsin), ATR (alpha- 1-antitrypsin-related protein), AACT or ACT (alpha-I
antichymotrypsin), P14 (proteinase inhibitor 4), PCI or PROCI (protein C inhibitor), CBG,
(corticosteroid-binding globulin), TBG (thyroxine-binding globulin), AGT
(angiotensinogen), centerin, PZI (protein Z-dependent protease inhibitor), P12 (proteinase
inhibitor 2), PAI2 or PLANH2 (plasminogen activator inhibitor-2), SCCA1 (squamous cell
carcinoma antigen 1), SCCA2 (squamous cell carcinoma antigen 2), P15 (proteinase inhibitor
5), P16 (proteinase inhibitor 6), megsin, P18 (proteinase inhibitor 8), P19 (proteinase inhibitor
9), PRl0 (proteinase inhibitor 10), epipin, yukopin, P113 (proteinase inhibitor 13), PI8LI
(proteinase inhibitor 8-like 1), AT3 or ATIII (antithrombin-III), HC-II or HCF2 (heparin
cofactor II), PAIl or PLANHI (plasminogen activator inhibitor-1), PNI (proteinase nexin I),
PEDF, (pigment epithelium-derived factor), PLI (plasmin inhibitor), Ci IN or CI INH
(plasma proteinase CI inhibitor), CBPI (collagen-binding protein 1), CBP2 (collagen
binding protein 2), PIi2 (proteinase inhibitor 12), and PIi4 (proteinase inhibitor 14); a
protein selected from the group consisting of: antithrombin III, alpha-i -antichymotrypsin,
                                               -3-

human serum albumin, alcoholdehydrogenase, biliverdin reductase, buturylcholinesterase,
complement C5a, cortisol-binding protein, creatine kinase, ferritin, heparin cofactor,
interleukin 2, protein C inhibitor, tissue factor; vitronectin; ovalbumin, plasminogen-activator
inhibitor, neuroserpin, Cl-Inhibitor, nexin, alpha-2-antiplasmin, heparin cofactor II, alphal
antichymotrypsin, alpha1-microglobulin; and a blood coagulation factor protein selected from
the group consisting of: Factor IX (FIX), Factor VIII (FVIII), Factor VIIa (FVIIa), Von
Willebrand Factor (VWF), Factor FV (FV), Factor X (FX), Factor XI (FXI), Factor XII
(FXII), Factor XIII (FXIII) thrombin (FII), protein C, protein S, tPA, PAI-1, tissue factor
(TF) and ADAMTS 13 protease. In a related embodiment, the therapeutic protein is AlPI.
In another related embodiment, the therapeutic protein is human serum albumin.
[0011]     In another embodiment, the aforementioned method is provided wherein the
therapeutic protein is a glycoprotein. In a related embodiment, the therapeutic protein is
glycosylated in vivo. In another related embodiment, the therapeutic protein is glycosylated
in vitro.
[0012]     In another embodiment, the aforementioned method is provided comprising a
quantity of therapeutic protein between 0.100 and 10.0 gram weight. In various
embodiments, the quantity of therapeutic protein is between 0.01 and 10.0 gram weight,
between 0.02 and 9.0 gram weight, between 0.03 and 8.0 gram weight, between 0.04 and 7.0
gram weight, between 0.05 and 6.0 gram weight, between 0.06 and 5.0 gram weight, between
0.07 and 4.0 gram weight, between 0.08 and 3.0 gram weight, between 0.09 and 2.0 gram
weight, and between 0.10 and 1.0 gram weight. Thus, in one embodiment, the methods of the
rpesent disclosure are applicable to large-scale production of therapeutic protein conjugates.
[0013]     In another embodiment, the aforementioned method is provided wherein the water
soluble polymer is selected from the group consisting of linear, branched or multi-arm water
soluble polymer. In another embodiment, the aforementioned method is provided wherein
the water-soluble polymer has a molecular weight between 3,000 and 150,000 Daltons (Da).
In various embodiments, the water-soluble polymer has a molecular weight between 5,000
and 125,000, between 6,000 and 120,000, between 7,000 and 115,000, between 8,000 and
110,000, between 9,000 and 100,000, between 10,000 and 80,000, between 15,000 and
75,000, between 20,000 and 60,000, between 30,000 and 50,000, and between 35,000 and
45,000 Da. In one embodiment, the water-soluble polymer is linear and has a molecular
weight between 10,000 and 50,000 Da. In still another embodiment, the water-soluble
polymer is linear and has a molecular weight of 20,000.
                                                -4-

[0014]    In another embodiment, the aforementioned method is provided wherein the water
soluble polymer is selected from the group consisting of polyethylene glycol (PEG),
branched PEG, PolyPEG@ (Warwick Effect Polymers; Coventry, UK), polysialic acid (PSA),
starch, hydroxylethyl starch (HES), hydroxyalkyl starch (HAS), carbohydrate,
polysaccharides, pullulane, chitosan, hyaluronic acid, chondroitin sulfate, dermatan sulfate,
dextran, carboxymethyl-dextran, polyalkylene oxide (PAO), polyalkylene glycol (PAG),
polypropylene glycol (PPG), polyoxazoline, polyacryloylmorpholine, polyvinyl alcohol
(PVA), polycarboxylate, polyvinylpyrrolidone, polyphosphazene, polyoxazoline,
polyethylene-co-maleic acid anhydride, polystyrene-co-maleic acid anhydride, poly(1
hydroxymethylethylene hydroxymethylformal) (PHF), 2-methacryloyloxy-2'
ethyltrimethylammoniumphosphate (MPC), and functional derivatives thereof.
[0015]    In still another embodiment, the aforementioned method is provided wherein the
water soluble polymer is derivatized to contain a sulfhydryl-specific group selected from the
group consisting of: maleimide (MAL), vinylsulfones, orthopyridyl-disulfides (OPSS) and
iodacetamides. In one embodiment, the water soluble polymer is PEG and the sulfhydryl
specific group is MAL. In still another embodiment, the water soluble polymer is PSA and
the sulfhydryl-specific group is MAL.
[0016]    In yet another embodiment, the aforementioned method is wherein the thiol
reductant is selected from the group consisting of: Tris[2-carboxyethyl] phosphine
hydrochloride (TCEP), dithiothreitol (DTT), dithioerythritol (DTE), sodium borohydride
(NaBH 4), sodium cyanoborohydride (NaCNBH 3), -mercaptoethanol (BME), cysteine
hydrochloride and cysteine. In one embodiment, the thiol reductant is TCEP.
[0017]    In another embodiment, the aforementioned method is provided wherein the thiol
reductant concentration is between 1 and 100-fold molar excess relative to the therapeutic
protein concentration. In still another embodiment, the thio reductant concentration is
between 1 and 10-fold molar excess relative to the therapeutic protein concentration. In
various embodiments, the thio reductant concentration is between 1 and 9, 1 and 8, 1 and 7, 1
and 6, 1 and 5, 2 and 4, and 3 and 4-fold molar excess relative to the therapeutic protein
concentration.
[0018]    In another embodiment, the aforementioned method is provided wherein the amino
acid sequence of the therapeutic protein contains no more than one cysteine residue. In
another embodiment, the aforementioned method is provided wherein the accessible cysteine
                                              -5-

sulfhydryl group is present in a native amino acid sequence of the therapeutic protein. In still
another embodiment, the aforementioned method is provided wherein the amino acid
sequence of therapeutic protein is modified to include the accessible cysteine sulfhydryl
group. In yet another embodiment, the aforementioned method is provided wherein the
conditions that produce a reduced cysteine sulfhydryl group on the therapeutic protein do not
reduce a disulfide bond between other cysteine amino acids in the protein. In another
embodiment, the aforementioned method is wherein therapeutic protein comprises only one
cysteine residue which comprises an accessible sulfhydryl group that is completely or
partially oxidized, said only one cysteine residue is not involved in a disulfide bond with
another cysteine residue in the therapeutic protein's amino acid sequence.
[0019]     In another embodiment of the present disclosure, the aforementioned method is
provided further comprising the step of purifying the therapeutic protein conjugate. In
various embodiments, the therapeutic protein conjugate is purified using a technique selected
from the group consisting of ion-exchange chromatography, hydrophobic interaction
chromatography, size exclusion chromatography and affinity chromatography or
combinations thereof.
[0020]     Instill another embodiment, the aforementioned method is provided wherein the
therapeutic protein, water-soluble polymer and thiol reductant are incubated together in a
single vessel, wherein the reduction of the oxidized SH group and the conjugation reaction is
carried out simultaneously. In another embodiment, the thiol reductant is removed following
incubation with the therapeutic protein and prior to incubating the therapeutic protein with
the water-soluble polymer, wherein the reduction of the oxidized SH group and the
conjugation reaction is carried out sequentially.
[0021]     In yet another embodiment of the present disclosure, the aforementioned method is
provided wherein the therapeutic protein conjugate retains at least 20% biological activity
relative to native therapeutic protein. In another embodiment the therapeutic protein
conjugate retains at least 60% biological activity relative to native therapeutic protein. In one
embodiment, the therapeutic protein conjugate retains between 10 to 100% biological activity
relative to native therapeutic protein. In various embodiments, the therapeutic protein
conjugate retains at least 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, or 90% biological
activity relative to native therapeutic protein.
                                                 - 6-

[0022]      In yet another embodiment of the present disclosure, the aforementioned method is
provided wherein at least 70% of the therapeutic protein conjugate comprises a single water
soluble polymer. In another embodiment 10-100% of the therapeutic protein conjugate
comprises a single water-soluble polymer. In various embodiments, 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%,
50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, or 90% of the therapeutic protein conjugate comprises a single water
soluble polymer.
[0023]      In still another embodiment of the present disclosure, the aforementioned method is
provided wherein the therapeutic protein conjugate has an increased half-life relative to
native therapeutic protein. In another embodiment, the therapeutic protein conjugate has at
least a 1.5-fold increase in half-life relative to native therapeutic protein. In one embodiment,
the therapeutic protein conjugate has at least a 1 to 10-fold increase in half-life relative to
native therapeutic protein. In various embodiments, the therapeutic protein conjugate has at
least a 1, 1.5, 2, 2.5, 3, 3.5, 4, 4.5, 5, 5.5, 6, 6.5, 7, 7.5, 8, 8.5, 9 or 9.5-fold increase in half
life relative to native therapeutic protein.
[0024]      In still another embodiment of the present disclosure, a method of preparing an
AlPI conjugate is provided comprising the steps of contacting the AlPI with TCEP under
conditions that allow the reduction of a sulfhydryl group on the AlPI, and contacting a linear
PEG derivatized to contain a MAL group with the AlPI under conditions that allow
conjugation of the water-soluble polymer to the reduced sulfhydryl group; said AlPI
comprising only one cysteine residue which comprises an accessible sulfhydryl group that is
completely or partially oxidized, said only one cysteine residue is not involved in a di-sulfide
bond with another cysteine residue in the A1PI's amino acid sequence; said TCEP
concentration is between 3 and 4-fold molar excess relative to the AlPI concentration;
wherein at least 70% of the AlPI conjugate comprises a single water-soluble polymer; said
AlPI conjugate having an increased half-life relative to native AlPI; and said AlPI conjugate
retaining at least 60% biological activity relative to native AlPI.
                                                FIGURES
[0025]      Figure 1 shows stabilization of an oxime linkage by reduction with NaCNBH3 to
form an alkoxyamine linkage.
[0026]      Figure 2 shows the synthesis of 3-oxa-pentane-1,5-dioxyamine containing two
active aminooxy groups in a two-step organic reaction employing a modified Gabriel
Synthesis of primary amines.
                                                    -7-

[0027]     Figure 3 shows a pharmacokinetic profile obtained with PEGylated Al PI.
                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0028]     The pharmacological and immunological properties of therapeutic proteins can be
improved by chemical modification and conjugation with polymeric compounds such as
those described herein. The present disclosure provides material and methods for preparing
therapeutic conjugates that are biologically active and have an extended half-life relative to a
non-conjugated therapeutic protein. The properties of the resulting conjugates generally
strongly depend on the structure and the size of the polymer. Thus, polymers with a defined
and narrow size distribution are usually preferred in the art. Synthetic polymers like PEG can
be manufactured easily with a narrow size distribution, while PSA can be purified in such a
manner that results in a final PSA preparation with a narrow size distribution. In addition
PEGylation reagents with defined polymer chains and narrow size distribution are on the
market and commercially available for a reasonable price.
METHODS OF PREPARING THERAPEUTIC PROTEIN CONJUGATES
[0029]     As described herein, the instant disclosure provides a method of preparing a
therapeutic protein conjugate. The various components of the methods provided by the
instant disclosure, e.g., therapeutic proteins, water-soluble polymers, reducing agents, and the
like, as well as the various conditions provided by the methods, e.g., reaction time and
concentrations of the various components, are described below.
[0030]     In one embodiment of the instant disclosure, a therapeutic protein is contacted with
a thiol reductant to produce a reduced cysteine sulfhydryl group on the therapeutic protein.
In another embodiment, the therapeutic protein with a reduced cysteine sulfhydryl group is
contacted with a water-soluble polymer to produce a therapeutic protein conjugate. In
various embodiments, the reaction steps to conjugate a water-soluble polymer to a therapeutic
protein are carried out separately and "sequentially." By way of example, starting materials
and reagents such as therapeutic protein, thiol reductant/reducing agent, and water soluble
polymer, etc., are separated between individual reaction steps (i.e., the therapeutic protein is
first reduced, followed by removal of the reducing agent, and then contacted with a water
soluble polymer). In another embodiment, the starting materials and reagents necessary to
complete a conjugation reaction according to the present disclosure is carried out in a single
vessel ("simultaneous").
                                                -8-

[0031]      In various embodiments of the present disclosure, a sulfhydryl - (SH) specific
reagent (e.g., a water-soluble polymer with a SH-specific/compatible end group or linker) is
conjugated to a SH group present on the therapeutic protein. In various embodiments, the SH
group is present on a cysteine residue of the therapeutic protein. The instant disclosure
provides methods whereby the therapeutic protein comprises multiple (e.g., more than one)
cysteine residues, but only one of such cysteine residues is accessible, and therefore
available, for conjugation to a water-soluble polymer. For example, a therapeutic protein
may have multiple cysteine residues in its naturally-occurring amino acid sequence. Such a
therapeutic protein, however, has no more than one accessible cysteine SH group as
described below. According to various embodiments of the instant disclosure, such a
therapeutic protein is site-specifically conjugated to a water-soluble polymer under conditions
that allow conjugation of the water-soluble polymer to the accessible sulfhydryl group
without disrupting disulfide bridges present in the therapeutic protein.
[0032]      According to various embodiments of the instant disclosure and as described
further below, the amino acid sequence of a therapeutic protein may naturally contain a single
(i.e., one), accessible SH group on a cysteine residue. Alternatively, the amino acid sequence
of a therapeutic protein may be modified using standard molecular biological techniques to
contain a single, accessible SH group on a cysteine residue. Such a modification may be
necessary when, for example, (i) the natural (i.e., wild-type) amino acid sequence of the
therapeutic protein does not include a cysteine residue; (ii) the amino acid sequence of the
therapeutic protein includes multiple cysteine residues, but all of which are involved in
disulfide bridges or are otherwise not accessible (e.g., buried in the folded protein); (iii) the
amino acid sequence of the therapeutic protein includes multiple cysteine residues with more
than one of such cysteine residues being accessible. In the aforementioned scenarios (ii) and
(iii), the instant disclosure contemplates the use of standard molecular biological techniques
to engineer a modified amino acid sequence that will result in a therapeutic protein with a
single accessible SH group. Alternatively, the instant disclosure contemplates the use of
standard chemical techniques to modify the therapeutic protein that will result in a
therapeutic protein with a single accessible SH group.
[0033]      By way of example, the instant disclosure provides a method for PEGylation of a
therapeutic protein (e.g., AlPI), with a SH-specific reagent (e.g. MAL-PEG), which is
performed in the presence of a mild reductive agent (e.g. TCEP). This method can be
performed as a simultaneous approach or, in the alternative, using a sequential approach (first
                                                -9-

reduction, then conjugation). SH-specific reagents include, but are not limited to, maleimide
(MAL), vinylsulfones, orthopyridyl-disulfides (OPSS) and iodacetamides.
[0034]      In various embodiments of the invention, the aforementioned method is provided
wherein any water-soluble polymer is conjugated to a therapeutic protein.
[0035]      In various embodiments of the invention, the aforementioned method is provided
wherein the therapeutic protein contains one accessible free SH group, which is not involved
in disulfide bridges. In various embodiments, the therapeutic proteins and peptides having
one free accessible SH groups are prepared by methods of recombinant DNA technology
(i.e., the protein's amino acid sequence is modified such that only one accessible SH group is
present on the protein). In various embodiments of the instant disclosure, serpins such as
AIPI (alpha-I proteinase inhibitor), or A1AT (alpha-1-antitrypsin), ATR (alpha-I
antitrypsin-related protein), AACT or ACT (alpha- 1-antichymotrypsin), P14 (proteinase
inhibitor 4), PCI or PROCI (protein C inhibitor), CBG, (corticosteroid-binding globulin),
TBG (thyroxine-binding globulin), AGT (angiotensinogen), centerin, PZI (protein Z
dependent protease inhibitor), P12 (proteinase inhibitor 2), PAI2 or PLANH2 (plasminogen
activator inhibitor-2), SCCA1 (squamous cell carcinoma antigen 1), SCCA2 (squamous cell
carcinoma antigen 2), P15 (proteinase inhibitor 5), P16 (proteinase inhibitor 6), megsin, P18
(proteinase inhibitor 8), P19 (proteinase inhibitor 9), PIl0 (proteinase inhibitor 10), epipin,
yukopin, P113 (proteinase inhibitor 13), PI8LI (proteinase inhibitor 8-like 1), AT3 or ATIII
(antithrombin-III), HC-II or HCF2 (heparin cofactor II), PAIl or PLANHi (plasminogen
activator inhibitor-1), PN 1 (proteinase nexin I), PEDF, (pigment epithelium-derived factor),
PLI (plasmin inhibitor), CiIIN or CI INH (plasma proteinase CI inhibitor), CBPI (collagen
binding protein 1), CBP2 (collagen-binding protein 2), PIi2 (proteinase inhibitor 12), and
PIi4 (proteinase inhibitor 14) and blood coagulation proteins such as Factor IX (FIX), Factor
VIII (FVIII), Factor VIIa (FVIIa), Von Willebrand Factor (VWF), Factor FV (FV), Factor X
(FX), Factor XI (FXI), Factor XII (FXII), thrombin (FII), protein C, protein S, tPA, PAI-1,
tissue factor (TF) and ADAMTS 13 protease are contemplated for use in the described
methods.
THERAPEUTIC PROTEINS
[0036]      As described herein, the term therapeutic protein refers to any therapeutic protein
molecule which exhibits biological activity that is associated with the therapeutic protein. In
one embodiment of the present disclosure, the therapeutic protein molecule is a full-length
                                               - 10 -

protein. In various embodiments of the present disclosure, the therapeutic protein may be
produced and purified from its natural source. Alternatively, according to the present
disclosure, the term "recombinant therapeutic protein" includes any therapeutic protein
obtained via recombinant DNA technology. In certain embodiments, the term encompasses
proteins as described herein.
[0037]     As used herein, "endogenous therapeutic protein" includes a therapeutic protein
which originates from the mammal intended to receive treatment. The term also includes
therapeutic protein transcribed from a transgene or any other foreign DNA present in said
mammal. As used herein, "exogenous therapeutic protein " includes a blood coagulation
protein which does not originate from the mammal intended to receive treatment.
[0038]     As used herein, "plasma-derived therapeutic protein " or "plasmatic" includes all
forms of the protein, for example a blood coagulation protein, found in blood obtained from a
mammal having the property participating in the coagulation pathway.
[0039]     As disclosed herein, the addition of a water soluble polymer is one approach to
improve the properties of therapeutic proteins. In certain embodiments of the present
disclosure, the polypeptides are exemplified by the following therapeutic proteins: enzymes,
antigens, antibodies, receptors, blood coagulation proteins, growth factors, hormones, and
ligands.
[0040]     In certain embodiments, the therapeutic protein is a member of the serpin family of
proteins (e.g., AiPI (alpha-I proteinase inhibitor), or A1AT (alpha-1-antitrypsin), ATR
(alpha-i -antitrypsin-related protein), AACT or ACT (alpha-i -antichymotrypsin), P14
(proteinase inhibitor 4), PCI or PROCI (protein C inhibitor), CBG, (corticosteroid-binding
globulin), TBG (thyroxine-binding globulin), AGT (angiotensinogen), centerin, PZI (protein
Z-dependent protease inhibitor), P12 (proteinase inhibitor 2), PAI2 or PLANH2 (plasminogen
activator inhibitor-2), SCCAI (squamous cell carcinoma antigen 1), SCCA2 (squamous cell
carcinoma antigen 2), P15 (proteinase inhibitor 5), P16 (proteinase inhibitor 6), megsin, P18
(proteinase inhibitor 8), P19 (proteinase inhibitor 9), PIl0 (proteinase inhibitor 10), epipin,
yukopin, PIi3 (proteinase inhibitor 13), PI8LI (proteinase inhibitor 8-like 1), AT3 or ATIII
(antithrombin-III), HC-II or HCF2 (heparin cofactor II), PAIl or PLANHi (plasminogen
activator inhibitor-1), PN I (proteinase nexin I), PEDF, (pigment epithelium-derived factor),
PLI (plasmin inhibitor), CiIIN or CI INH (plasma proteinase CI inhibitor), CBPI (collagen
binding protein 1), CBP2 (collagen-binding protein 2), PIi2 (proteinase inhibitor 12), and
                                              - 11 -

P114 (proteinase inhibitor 14)). The serpins (serine proteinase inhibitors) are a superfamily of
proteins (300-500 amino acids in size) that fold into a conserved structure and employ an
unique suicide substrate-like inhibitory mechanism (Silverman, G.A., et al., J. Biol. Chem.,
276(36):33293-33296 (2001); incorporated by reference in its entirety).
[0041]     In certain embodiments, the therapeutic protein is a member of the coagulation
factor family of proteins (e.g., Factor IX (FIX), Factor VIII (FVIII), Factor VIIa (FVIIa), Von
Willebrand Factor (VWF), Factor FV (FV), Factor X (FX), Factor XI (FXI), Factor XII
(FXII), thrombin (FII), protein C, protein S, tPA, PAI- 1, tissue factor (TF) and ADAMTS 13
protease).
[0042]     In various embodiments, the therapeutic proteins have one or more than one
cysteine residue. In one embodiment, where a therapeutic protein has only one cysteine
residue, the cysteine residue comprises an accessible sulfhydryl group that is completely or
partially oxidized. Such a sulhydryl group on the cysteine, while not involved in a di-sulfide
bond with another cysteine residue in the therapeutic protein's amino acid sequence, may be
bound to a "free" cysteine residue or any other sulfur-containing compound (e.g.,
glutathione) following purification. As disclosed herein, reduction of such a cysteine on the
therapeutic protein increases the efficiency of coupling, for example, a water-soluble polymer
to the sulhydryl group on the cysteine.
[0043]     In another embodiment, the therapeutic protein contains more than one cysteine, yet
has only one cysteine residue that comprises an accessible sulfhydryl group that is completely
or partially oxidized (i.e., only one cysteine residue that is not involved in a di-sulfide bond
with another cysteine residue in the therapeutic protein's amino acid sequence or is not
otherwise accessible due to, for example, intra- or inter - protein-protein interactions such as
burial as a result of protein folding or formation of dimers, and the like).
[0044]     In various embodiments, cysteine residues may be added or removed from a
therapeutic protein's amino acid sequence, thereby allowing conjugation of a water-soluble
according to the present disclosure. U.S Patent No. 5,766,897, which is incorporated by
reference in its entirety, describes the production "cysteine-PEGylated proteins" in general.
Polypeptide variants, analogs and derivatives are discussed below.
[0045]     The therapeutic proteins provided herein should not be considered to be exclusive.
Rather, as is apparent from the present disclosure provided herein, the methods of the present
disclosure are applicable to any protein wherein attachment of a water soluble polymer is
                                                - 12 -

desired according to the present disclosure. For example, therapeutic proteins are described
in US 2007/0026485, incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
AlPI
[0046]     In one embodiment, A1PI is conjugated to a water soluble polymer according to the
methods provided in the instant disclosure. AlPI (al-proteinase inhibitor or AlPI or alpha 1
antitrypsin or al-antitrypsin or A1AT) is a 52 kD glycoprotein of 394 amino acids present in
human plasma (Carrell, R.W., et al., Nature 298(5872):329-34 (1982); UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot
Accession No. P01009). Structure and variation of human alpha 1-antitrypsin. One
carbohydrate chain (N-glycan) is added to each of three B-asparagine residues by post
translational modification (Brantly, Am. J. Respir. Cell. Mol. Boil., 27:652-654 ( 2002)).
AlPI is encoded by a 12.2 kb gene on the human chromosome 14q31-32,3 which consists of
three non-coding introns and four coding exons.
[0047]     The two amino acids Met358-Ser359 are the active center of the protein. AlPI is
largely synthesized in the hepatocytes, but the protein biosynthesis of AlPI followed by
release into the bloodstream also takes place in mononuclear phagocytes, in intestinal cells
and epithelial cells of the lung (NN., Am. J. Respir. Crit. Care Med., 168:818-900 (2003),
Travis, J., and Salvesen, G.S., Annu. Rev. Biochem., 52:655-709 (1983)).
[0048]     A1PI can be detected throughout the tissue of the body, but has particular
physiological significance in the lung. The considerable number of permanent cellular
defense events which is due to the large contact surface of the lung with the air breathed in
causes increased release of highly active proteases in the surrounding alveolar tissue. if the
balance between protease and inhibitor is shifted as a result of genetically caused under
expression of AlPI or toxic substances such as cigarette smoke, NE can destroy the cells of
the alveoli. This may result in the formation of life-threatening lung emphysema, a chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease/COPD (Klebe, g., Spektrum, 2nd ed., 351-366 (2009)).
[0049]     WO 2005/027821 and U.S. Patent Nos. 5,981,715, 6,284,874, and 5,616,693, each
incorporated by reference in its entirety, discloses a process for purifying AlPI. U.S. Patent
No. 5,981,715 also discloses AlPI replacement or AlPI augmentation therapies. AlPI
deficiency is an autosomal, recessive hereditary disorder displayed by a large number of
allelic variants and has been characterized into an allelic arrangement designated as the
protease inhibitor (Pi) system. These alleles have been grouped on the basis of the alpha-1-PI
levels that occur in the serum of different individuals. Normal individuals have normal
                                               - 13 -

serum levels of alpha-l-PI (normal individuals have been designated as having a PiMM
phenotype). Deficient individuals have serum alpha-l-PI levels of less than 35% of the
average normal level (these individuals have been designated as having a PiZZ phenotype).
Null individuals have undetectable AlPI protein in their serum (these individuals have been
designated as having a Pi(null)(null) phenotype).
[0050]     AlPI deficiency is characterized by low serum (less than 35% of average normal
levels) and lung levels of AlPI. These deficient individuals have a high risk of developing
panacinar emphysema. This emphysema predominates in individuals who exhibit PiZZ,
PiZ(null) and Pi(null)(null) phenotypes. Symptoms of the condition usually manifests in
afflicted individuals in the third to fourth decades of life.
[0051]     The emphysema associated with AlPI deficiency develops as a result of
insufficient AlPI concentrations in the lower respiratory tract to inhibit neutrophil elastase,
leading to destruction of the connective tissue framework of the lung parenchyma.
Individuals with AlPI deficiency have little protection against the neutrophil elastase
released by the neutrophils in their lower respiratory tract. This imbalance of
protease:protease inhibitor in AlPI deficient individuals results in chronic damage to, and
ultimately destruction of the lung parenchyma and alveolar walls.
[0052]     Individuals with severe AlPI deficiency typically exhibit endogenous serum AlPI
levels of less than 50 mg/dl, as determined by commercial standards. Individuals with these
low serum AlPI levels have greater than an 80% risk of developing emphysema over a
lifetime. It is estimated that at least 40,000 patients in the United States, or 2% of all those
with emphysema, have this disease resulting from a defect in the gene coding for AlPI. A
deficiency in AlPI represents one of the most common lethal hereditary disorders of
Caucasians in the United States and Europe.
[0053]     Therapy for patients with AlPI deficiency is directed towards replacement or
augmentation of AlPI levels in the serum. If serum levels of AlPI are increased, this is
expected to lead to higher concentrations in the lungs and thus correct the neutrophil elastase:
AlPI imbalance in the lungs and prevent or slow destruction of lung tissue. Studies of
normal and AlPI deficient populations have suggested that the minimum protective serum
AlPI levels are 80 mg/dl or 11      M (about 57 mg/dl; using pure standards). Consequently,
most augmentation therapy in AlPI deficient patients is aimed toward providing the
minimum protective serum level of AlPI, since serum AlPI is the source of alveolar AlPI.
                                                - 14 -

[0054]     A1PI preparations have been available for therapeutic use since the mid 1980's.
The major use has been augmentation (replacement) therapy for congenital AlPI deficiency.
The half-life of human AlPI in vivo is 4.38 days with a standard deviation of 1.27 days. The
currently recommended dosage of 60 mg AlPI/kg body weight weekly will restore low
serum levels of AlPI to levels above the protective threshold level of 11 IM or 80 mg/dl.
[0055]     U.S. Patent No. 4,496,689, incorporated by reference in its entirety, discloses
water-soluble polymers covalently attached to AlPI. Additional publications disclose the
conjugation of water-soluble polymers to the single cysteine residue of AlPI (Cantin, A.M.,
et al., Am. J. Respir. Cell. Mol. Biol., 27:659-665 (2002); Tyagi, S.C., J. Biol. Chem.,
266:5279-5285 (1991)).
FVII
[0056]     In one embodiment, FVII is conjugated to a water soluble polymer according to the
methods provided in the instant disclosure. FVII (also known as stable factor or
proconvertin) is a vitamin K-dependent serine protease glycoprotein with a pivotal role in
hemostasis and coagulation (Eigenbrot, Curr Protein Pept Sci. 2002;3:287-99).
[0057]     FVII is synthesized in the liver and secreted as a single-chain glycoprotein of 48
kD. FVII shares with all vitamin K-dependent serine protease glycoproteins a similar protein
domain structure consisting of an amino-terminal gamma-carboxyglutamic acid (Gla) domain
with 9-12 residues responsible for the interaction of the protein with lipid membranes, a
carboxy-terminal serine protease domain (catalytic domain), and two epidermal growth
factor-like domains containing a calcium ion binding site that mediates interaction with
tissue factor. Gamma-glutamyl carboxylase catalyzes carboxylation of Gla residues in the
amino-terminal portion of the molecule. The carboxylase is dependent on a reduced form of
vitamin K for its action, which is oxidized to the epoxide form. Vitamin K epoxide reductase
is required to convert the epoxide form of vitamin K back to the reduced form.
[0058]     The major proportion of FVII circulates in plasma in zymogen form, and activation
of this form results in cleavage of the peptide bond between arginine 152 and isoleucine 153.
The resulting activated FVIIa consists of a NH2-derived light chain (20 kD) and a COOH
terminal-derived heavy chain (30 kD) linked via a single disulfide bond (Cys 135 to Cys
262). The light chain contains the membrane-binding Gla domain, while the heavy chain
contains the catalytic domain.
                                               - 15 -

[0059]     The plasma concentration of FVII determined by genetic and environmental factors
is about 0.5 mg/mL (Pinotti et al., Blood. 2000;95:3423-8). Different FVII genotypes can
result in several-fold differences in mean FVII levels. Plasma FVII levels are elevated during
pregnancy in healthy females and also increase with age and are higher in females and in
persons with hypertriglyceridemia. FVII has the shortest half-life of all procoagulant factors
(3-6 h). The mean plasma concentration of FVIIa is 3.6 ng/mL in healthy individuals and the
circulating half-life of FVIIa is relatively long (2.5 h) compared with other coagulation
factors.
[0060]     Hereditary FVII deficiency is a rare autosomal recessive bleeding disorder with a
prevalence estimated to be 1 case per 500,000 persons in the general population (Acharya et
al., J Thromb Haemost. 2004;2248-56). Acquired FVII deficiency from inhibitors is also
very rare. Cases have also been reported with the deficiency occurring in association with
drugs such as cephalosporins, penicillins, and oral anticoagulants. Furthermore, acquired
FVII deficiency has been reported to occur spontaneously or with other conditions, such as
myeloma, sepsis, aplastic anemia, with interleukin-2 and antithymocyte globulin therapy.
[0061]     Reference FVII polynucleotide and polypeptide sequences include, e.g., GenBank
Accession Nos. J02933 for the genomic sequence, M13232 for the cDNA (Hagen et al.
PNAS 1986; 83: 2412-6), and P08709 for the polypeptide sequence (references incorporated
herein in their entireties). A variety of polymorphisms of FVII have been described, for
example see Sabater-Lleal et al. (Hum Genet. 2006; 118:741-51) (reference incorporated
herein in its entirety).
                Factor IX
[0062]     FIX is a vitamin K-dependent plasma protein that participates in the intrinsic
pathway of blood coagulation by converting FX to its active form in the presence of calcium
ions, phospholipids and FVIIIa. The predominant catalytic capability of FIX is as a seine
protease with specificity for a particular arginine-isoleucine bond within FX. Activation of
FIX occurs by FXIa which causes excision of the activation peptide from FIX to produce an
activated FIX molecule comprising two chains held by one or more disulfide bonds. Defects
in FIX are the cause of recessive X-linked hemophilia B.
[0063]     Hemophilia A and B are inherited diseases characterized by deficiencies in FVIII
and FIX polypeptides, respectively. The underlying cause of the deficiencies is frequently
the result of mutations in FVIII and FIX genes, both of which are located on the X
                                                - 16 -

chromosome. Traditional therapy for hemophilias often involves intravenous administration
of pooled plasma or semi-purified coagulation proteins from normal individuals. These
preparations can be contaminated by pathogenic agents or viruses, such as infectious prions,
HIV, parvovirus, hepatitis A, and hepatitis C. Hence, there is an urgent need for therapeutic
agents that do not require the use of human serum.
[0064]     The level of the decrease in FIX activity is directly proportional to the severity of
hemophilia B. The current treatment of hemophilia B consists of the replacement of the
missing protein by plasma-derived or recombinant FIX (so-called FIX substitution or
replacement treatment or therapy).
[0065]     Polynucleotide and polypeptide sequences of FIX can be found for example in the
UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot Accession No. P00740, US Pat. No. 6,531,298.
                Factor VIII
[0066]     Coagulation factor VIII (FVIII) circulates in plasma at a very low concentration and
is bound non-covalently to Von Willebrand factor (VWF). During hemostasis, FVIII is
separated from VWF and acts as a cofactor for activated factor IX (FIXa)-mediated FX
activation by enhancing the rate of activation in the presence of calcium and phospholipids or
cellular membranes.
[0067]     FVIII is synthesized as a single-chain precursor of approximately 270-330 kD with
the domain structure Al-A2-B-A3-C1-C2.         When purified from plasma (e.g., "plasma
derived" or "plasmatic"), FVIII is composed of a heavy chain (Al-A2-B) and a light chain
(A3-C1-C2). The molecular mass of the light chain is 80 kD whereas, due to proteolysis
within the B domain, the heavy chain is in the range of 90-220 kD.
[0068]     FVIII is also synthesized as a recombinant protein for therapeutic use in bleeding
disorders. Various in vitro assays have been devised to determine the potential efficacy of
recombinant FVIII (rFVIII) as a therapeutic medicine. These assays mimic the in vivo
effects of endogenous FVIII. In vitro thrombin treatment of FVIII results in a rapid increase
and subsequent decrease in its procoagulant activity, as measured by in vitro assays. This
activation and inactivation coincides with specific limited proteolysis both in the heavy and
the light chains, which alter the availability of different binding epitopes in FVIII, e.g.
allowing FVIII to dissociate from VWF and bind to a phospholipid surface or altering the
binding ability to certain monoclonal antibodies.
                                                - 17 -

[0069]      The lack or dysfunction of FVIII is associated with the most frequent bleeding
disorder, hemophilia A. The treatment of choice for the management of hemophilia A is
replacement therapy with plasma derived or rFVIII concentrates. Patients with severe
haemophilia A with FVIII levels below 1%, are generally on prophylactic therapy with the
aim of keeping FVIII above 1% between doses. Taking into account the average half-lives of
the various FVIII products in the circulation, this result can usually be achieved by giving
FVIII two to three times a week.
[0070]      Reference polynucleotide and polypeptide sequences include, e.g.,
UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot P00451 (FA8_HUMAN); Gitschier J et al., Characterization of the
human Factor VIII gene, Nature, 312(5992): 326-30 (1984); Vehar GH et al., Structure of
human Factor VIII, Nature, 312(5992):337-42 (1984); Thompson AR. Structure and Function
of the Factor VIII gene and protein, Semin Thromb Hemost, 2003:29;11-29 (2002).
                 Von Willebrand Factor
[0071]      Von Willebrand factor (VWF) is a glycoprotein circulating in plasma as a series of
multimers ranging in size from about 500 to 20,000 kD. Multimeric forms of VWF are
composed of 250 kD polypeptide subunits linked together by disulfide bonds. VWF mediates
initial platelet adhesion to the sub-endothelium of the damaged vessel wall. Only the larger
multimers exhibit hemostatic activity. It is assumed that endothelial cells secrete large
polymeric forms of VWF and those forms of VWF which have a low molecular weight (low
molecular weight VWF) arise from proteolytic cleavage. The multimers having large
molecular masses are stored in the Weibel-Pallade bodies of endothelial cells and liberated
upon stimulation.
[0072]      VWF is synthesized by endothelial cells and megakaryocytes as prepro-VWF that
consists to a large extent of repeated domains. Upon cleavage of the signal peptide, pro
VWF dimerizes through disulfide linkages at its C-terminal region. The dimers serve as
protomers for multimerization, which is governed by disulfide linkages between the free end
termini. The assembly to multimers is followed by the proteolytic removal of the propeptide
sequence (Leyte et al., Biochem. J. 274 (1991), 257-261).
[0073]      The primary translation product predicted from the cloned cDNA of VWF is a
2813-residue precursor polypeptide (prepro-VWF). The prepro-VWF consists of a 22 amino
acid signal peptide and a 741 amino acid propeptide, with the mature VWF comprising 2050
amino acids (Ruggeri Z.A., and Ware, J., FASEB J., 308-316 (1993).
                                               - 18 -

[0074]      Defects in VWF are causal to Von Willebrand disease (VWD), which is
characterized by a more or less pronounced bleeding phenotype. VWD type 3 is the most
severe form in which VWF is completely missing, and VWD type 1 relates to a quantitative
loss of VWF and its phenotype can be very mild. VWD type 2 relates to qualitative defects
of VWF and can be as severe as VWD type 3. VWD type 2 has many sub forms, some being
associated with the loss or the decrease of high molecular weight multimers. Von Willebrand
disease type 2a (VWD-2A) is characterized by a loss of both intermediate and large
multimers. VWD-2B is characterized by a loss of highest-molecular-weight multimers.
Other diseases and disorders related to VWF are known in the art.
[0075]      The polynucleotide and amino acid sequences of prepro-VWF are available at
GenBank Accession Nos. NM_000552 and NP_000543, respectively.
[0076]      Other blood coagulation proteins according to the present invention are described in
the art, e.g. Mann KG, Thromb Haemost, 1999;82:165-74.
         A.      Polypeptides
[0077]      In one aspect, the starting material of the present disclosure is a protein or
polypeptide. Therapeutic protein molecules contemplated include full-length proteins,
precursors of full length proteins, biologically active subunits or fragments of full length
proteins, as well as biologically active derivatives and variants of any of these forms of
therapeutic proteins. Thus, therapeutic protein include those that (1) have an amino acid
sequence that has greater than about 60%, about 65%, about 70%, about 75%, about 80%,
about 85%, about 90%, about 91%, about 92%, about 93%, about 94%, about 95%, about
96%, about 97%, about 98% or about 99% or greater amino acid sequence identity, over a
region of at least about 25, about 50, about 100, about 200, about 300, about 400, or more
amino acids, to a polypeptide encoded by a referenced nucleic acid or an amino acid
sequence described herein; and/or (2) specifically bind to antibodies, e.g., polyclonal or
monoclonal antibodies, generated against an immunogen comprising a referenced amino acid
sequence as described herein, an immunogenic fragment thereof, and/or a conservatively
modified variant thereof.
[0078]      As used herein "biologically active derivative," "biologically active fragment,"
"biologically active analog" or "biologically active variant" includes any derivative or
fragment or analog or variant of a molecule having substantially the same functional and/or
                                                 - 19 -

biological properties of said molecule, such as binding properties, and/or the same structural
basis, such as a peptidic backbone or a basic polymeric unit.
[0079]     An "analog," such as a "variant" or a "derivative," is a compound substantially
similar in structure and having the same biological activity, albeit in certain instances to a
differing degree, to a naturally-occurring molecule.
[0080]     A "derivative," for example, is a type of analog and refers to a polypeptide sharing
the same or substantially similar structure as a reference polypeptide that has been modified,
e.g., chemically.
[0081]     A polypeptide variant, for example, is a type of analog and refers to a polypeptide
sharing substantially similar structure and having the same biological activity as a reference
polypeptide (i.e., "native polypeptide" or "native therapeutic protein"). Variants differ in the
composition of their amino acid sequences compared to the naturally-occurring polypeptide
from which the variant is derived, based on one or more mutations involving (i) deletion of
one or more amino acid residues at one or more termini of the polypeptide and/or one or
more internal regions of the naturally-occurring polypeptide sequence (e.g., fragments), (ii)
insertion or addition of one or more amino acids at one or more termini (typically an
"addition" or "fusion") of the polypeptide and/or one or more internal regions (typically an
"insertion") of the naturally-occurring polypeptide sequence or (iii) substitution of one or
more amino acids for other amino acids in the naturally-occurring polypeptide sequence.
[0082]     Variant polypeptides include insertion variants, wherein one or more amino acid
residues are added to a therapeutic protein amino acid sequence of the present disclosure.
Insertions may be located at either or both termini of the protein, and/or may be positioned
within internal regions of the therapeutic protein amino acid sequence. Insertion variants,
with additional residues at either or both termini, include for example, fusion proteins and
proteins including amino acid tags or other amino acid labels. In one aspect, the therapeutic
protein molecule optionally contains an N-terminal Met, especially when the molecule is
expressed recombinantly in a bacterial cell such as E. coli.
[0083]     In deletion variants, one or more amino acid residues in a therapeutic protein
polypeptide as described herein are removed. Deletions can be effected at one or both
termini of the therapeutic protein polypeptide, and/or with removal of one or more residues
within the therapeutic protein amino acid sequence. Deletion variants, therefore, include
fragments of a therapeutic protein polypeptide sequence.
                                               - 20 -

[0084]     In substitution variants, one or more amino acid residues of a therapeutic protein
polypeptide are removed and replaced with alternative residues. In one aspect, the
substitutions are conservative in nature and conservative substitutions of this type are well
known in the art. Alternatively, the present disclosure embraces substitutions that are also
non-conservative. Exemplary conservative substitutions are described in Lehninger,
[Biochemistry, 2nd Edition; Worth Publishers, Inc., New York (1975), pp. 7 1-77] and are set
out immediately below.
                             CONSERVATIVE SUBSTITUTIONS
                         SIDE CHAIN                         AMINO ACID
                     CHARACTERISTIC
              Non-polar (hydrophobic):
                     A. Aliphatic                              ALIVP
                     B. Aromatic                                  FW
                     C. Sulfur-containing                          M
                     D. Borderline                                 G
              Uncharged-polar:
                     A. Hydroxyl                                 STY
                     B. Amides                                    NQ
                     C. Sulfhydryl                                  C
                     D. Borderline                                 G
              Positively charged (basic)                         KRH
              Negatively charged (acidic)                         D E
[0085]     Alternatively, exemplary conservative substitutions are set out immediately below.
                            CONSERVATIVE SUBSTITUTIONS II
                 ORIGINAL RESIDUE                     EXEMPLARY
                                                     SUBSTITUTION
                          Ala (A)                       Val, Leu, Ile
                          Arg (R)                      Lys, Gln, Asn
                          Asn (N)                    Gln, His, Lys, Arg
                          Asp (D)                           Glu
                                               -21 -

                          Cys (C)                              Ser
                          Gln (Q)                             Asn
                          Glu (E)                             Asp
                          His (H)                      Asn, Gln, Lys, Arg
                            Ile (I)               Leu, Val, Met, Ala, Phe,
                          Leu (L)                   Ile, Val, Met, Ala, Phe
                          Lys (K)                        Arg, Gln, Asn
                          Met (M)                         Leu, Phe, Ile
                           Phe (F)                     Leu, Val, Ile, Ala
                           Pro (P)                            Gly
                           Ser (S)                            Thr
                           Thr (T)                             Ser
                          Trp (W)                             Tyr
                          Tyr (Y)                      Trp, Phe, Thr, Ser
                          Val (V)                   Ile, Leu, Met, Phe, Ala
[0086]      As described herein, in various embodiments, the therapeutic protein is modified to
introduce or delete cysteines, glycosylation sites, or other amino acids with compatible side
chains for directed water-soluble polymer attachment. Such modification may be
accomplished using standard molecular biological techniques known in the art and can be
accomplished recombinantly (e.g., engineering an amino acid sequence to delete or insert one
or more cysteines) such that the purified, modified protein comprises the desired sequence.
Alternatively, such modification may be accomplished in vitro following production and
purification of the protein.
         B.      Polynucleotides
[0087]      Nucleic acids encoding a therapeutic protein of the present disclosure include, for
example and without limitation, genes, pre-mRNAs, mRNAs, cDNAs, polymorphic variants,
alleles, synthetic and naturally-occurring mutants.
[0088]      Polynucleotides encoding a therapeutic protein of the present disclosure also
include, without limitation, those that (1) specifically hybridize under stringent hybridization
conditions to a nucleic acid encoding a referenced amino acid sequence as described herein,
and conservatively modified variants thereof; (2) have a nucleic acid sequence that has
greater than about 95%, about 96%, about 97%, about 98%, about 99%, or higher nucleotide
                                               - 22  -

sequence identity, over a region of at least about 25, about 50, about 100, about 150, about
200, about 250, about 500, about 1000, or more nucleotides (up to the full length sequence of
1218 nucleotides of the mature protein), to a reference nucleic acid sequence as described
herein. Exemplary "stringent hybridization" conditions include hybridization at 42oC in 50%
formamide, 5X SSC, 20 mM Na-P04, pH 6.8; and washing in IX SSC at 55oC for 30
minutes. It is understood that variation in these exemplary conditions can be made based on
the length and GC nucleotide content of the sequences to be hybridized. Formulas standard
in the art are appropriate for determining appropriate hybridization conditions. See
Sambrook et al., Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual (Second ed., Cold Spring Harbor
Laboratory Press, 1989)  9.47-9.5 1.
         C.      Production of therapeutic proteins
[0089]      A "naturally-occurring" polynucleotide or polypeptide sequence is typically from a
mammal including, but not limited to, primate, e.g., human; rodent, e.g., rat, mouse, hamster;
cow, pig, horse, sheep, or any mammal. The nucleic acids and proteins of the present
disclosure can be recombinant molecules (e.g., heterologous and encoding the wild type
sequence or a variant thereof, or non-naturally occurring). In various embodiments, a
naturally-occurring therapeutic protein is purified from blood or blood plasma samples
obtained from a human.
[0090]      Production of a therapeutic protein includes any method known in the art for (i) the
production of recombinant DNA by genetic engineering, (ii) introducing recombinant DNA
into prokaryotic or eukaryotic cells by, for example and without limitation, transfection,
electroporation or microinjection, (iii) cultivating said transformed cells, (iv) expressing
therapeutic protein, e.g. constitutively or upon induction, and (v) isolating said blood
coagulation protein, e.g. from the culture medium or by harvesting the transformed cells, in
order to obtain purified therapeutic protein.
[0091]      In other aspects, the therapeutic protein is produced by expression in a suitable
prokaryotic or eukaryotic host system characterized by producing a pharmacologically
acceptable blood coagulation protein molecule. Examples of eukaryotic cells are mammalian
cells, such as CHO, COS, HEK 293, BHK, SK-Hep, and HepG2.
[0092]      A wide variety of vectors are used for the preparation of the therapeutic protein and
are selected from eukaryotic and prokaryotic expression vectors. Examples of vectors for
prokaryotic expression include plasmids such as, and without limitation, pRSET, pET, and
                                                -23-

pBAD, wherein the promoters used in prokaryotic expression vectors include one or more of,
and without limitation, lac, trc, trp, recA, or araBAD. Examples of vectors for eukaryotic
expression include: (i) for expression in yeast, vectors such as, and without limitation, pAO,
pPIC, pYES, or pMET, using promoters such as, and without limitation, AOX1, GAP,
GALl, or AUGi; (ii) for expression in insect cells, vectors such as and without limitation,
pMT, pAc5, pIB, pMIB, or pBAC, using promoters such as and without limitation PH, p10,
MT, Ac5, OpIE2, gp64, or polh, and (iii) for expression in mammalian cells, vectors such as
and without limitation pSVL, pCMV, pRc/RSV, pcDNA3, or pBPV, and vectors derived
from, in one aspect, viral systems such as and without limitation vaccinia virus, adeno
associated viruses, herpes viruses, or retroviruses, using promoters such as and without
limitation CMV, SV40, EF-1, UbC, RSV, ADV, BPV, and P-actin.
         D.      Administration
[0093]      In one embodiment a conjugated therapeutic protein of the present disclosure may
be administered by injection, such as intravenous, intramuscular, or intraperitoneal injection.
[0094]      To administer compositions comprising a conjugated therapeutic protein of the
present disclosure to human or test animals, in one aspect, the compositions comprise one or
more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers. The terms "pharmaceutically" or
"pharmacologically acceptable" refer to molecular entities and compositions that are stable,
inhibit protein degradation such as aggregation and cleavage products, and in addition do not
produce allergic, or other adverse reactions when administered using routes well-known in
the art, as described below. "Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers" include any and all
clinically useful solvents, dispersion media, coatings, antibacterial and antifungal agents,
isotonic and absorption delaying agents and the like, including those agents disclosed above.
[0095]      As used herein, "effective amount" includes a dose suitable for treating a disease or
disorder or ameliorating a symptom of a disease or disorder. In one embodiment, "effective
amount" includes a dose suitable for treating a mammal having an autosomal recessive
disorder leading to AlPI deficiency as described herein. In one embodiment, "effective
amount" includes a dose suitable for treating a mammal having a bleeding disorder as
described herein. As used herein, "effective amount" also includes a dose suitable for
treating a mammal having a bleeding disorder as described herein.
[0096]      The compositions may be administered orally, topically, transdermally,
parenterally, by inhalation spray, vaginally, rectally, or by intracranial injection. The term
                                                - 24 -

parenteral as used herein includes subcutaneous injections, intravenous, intramuscular,
intracisternal injection, or infusion techniques. Administration by intravenous, intradermal,
intramuscular, intramammary, intraperitoneal, intrathecal, retrobulbar, intrapulmonary
injection and or surgical implantation at a particular site is contemplated as well. Generally,
compositions are essentially free of pyrogens, as well as other impurities that could be
harmful to the recipient.
[0097]     Single or multiple administrations of the compositions can be carried out with the
dose levels and pattern being selected by the treating physician. For the prevention or
treatment of disease, the appropriate dosage will depend on the type of disease to be treated,
as described above, the severity and course of the disease, whether drug is administered for
preventive or therapeutic purposes, previous therapy, the patient's clinical history and
response to the drug, and the discretion of the attending physician.
[0098]     The present disclosure also relates to a pharmaceutical composition comprising an
effective amount of a conjugated therapeutic protein as defined herein. The pharmaceutical
composition may further comprise a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, diluent, salt, buffer,
or excipient. The pharmaceutical composition can be used for treating the above-defined
bleeding disorders. The pharmaceutical composition of the present disclosure may be a
solution or a lyophilized product. Solutions of the pharmaceutical composition may be
subjected to any suitable lyophilization process.
[0099]     As an additional aspect, the present disclosure includes kits which comprise a
composition of the present disclosure packaged in a manner which facilitates its use for
administration to subjects. In one embodiment, such a kit includes a compound or
composition described herein (e.g., a composition comprising a conjugated therapeutic
protein), packaged in a container such as a sealed bottle or vessel, with a label affixed to the
container or included in the package that describes use of the compound or composition in
practicing the method. In one embodiment, the kit contains a first container having a
composition comprising a conjugated therapeutic protein and a second container having a
physiologically acceptable reconstitution solution for the composition in the first container.
In one aspect, the compound or composition is packaged in a unit dosage form. The kit may
further include a device suitable for administering the composition according to a specific
route of administration. Preferably, the kit contains a label that describes use of the
therapeutic protein or peptide composition.
                                               - 25 -

WATER SOLUBLE POLYMERS
[00100]      In one embodiment of the instant disclosure, a therapeutic protein conjugate
molecule is bound to a water-soluble polymer including, but not limited to, polyethylene
glycol (PEG), branched PEG, PolyPEG@ (Warwick Effect Polymers; Coventry, UK),
polysialic acid (PSA), starch, hydroxylethyl starch (HES), hydroxyalkyl starch (HAS),
carbohydrate, polysaccharides, pullulane, chitosan, hyaluronic acid, chondroitin sulfate,
dermatan sulfate, starch, dextran, carboxymethyl-dextran, polyalkylene oxide (PAO),
polyalkylene glycol (PAG), polypropylene glycol (PPG) polyoxazoline, poly
acryloylmorpholine, polyvinyl alcohol (PVA), polycarboxylate, polyvinylpyrrolidone,
polyphosphazene, polyoxazoline, polyethylene-co-maleic acid anhydride, polystyrene-co
maleic acid anhydride, poly(1-hydroxymethylethylene hydroxymethylformal) (PHF), 2
methacryloyloxy-2'-ethyltrimethylammoniumphosphate (MPC), and functional derivatives
thereof.
[00101]      According to various embodiments of the instant disclosure, water soluble
polymers may be modified or derivatized by attaching a functional linker or a specific and
desired end group chemistry to enable such a water-soluble polymer derivative to attach in a
site specific manner to a therapeutic protein (with at least one accessible site compatible with
such end group chemistry). For example, water-soluble polymer functional derivatives such
as N-hydroxysuccinimide ester-PEG (NHS-PEG), PEG carbonate, PEG aldehydes,
aminooxy-PEG, PEG hydrazide (PEG-Hz), PEG hydrazine, PEG maleimide (MAL-PEG),
PEG thiol (PEG-SH), Amino PEG (PEG -NH2), Carboxyl PEG (PEG-COOH), Hydroxyl
PEG (PEG-OH), PEG epoxide, oxidized PSA, aminooxy-PSA, PSA hydrazide, PEG
vinylsulfone, PEG orthpyridyl-disulfide (OPSS), PEG ioacetamide, PEG benzotriazole, PSA
SH, MAL-PSA, PSA hydrazide, PSA hydrazine and PSA-NH2 are contemplated by the
present disclosure.
[00102]      In one embodiment of the present disclosure, the water soluble polymer has a
molecular weight range of 350 to 150,000, 500 to 100,000, 1000 to 80,000, 1500 to 60,000,
2,000 to 45,000 Da, 3,000 to 35,000 Da, and 5,000 to 25,000 Da. In various embodiments,
the water-soluble polymer is a PEG or PSA with a molecular weight of 10,000, 20,000,
30,000 , 40,000 , 50,000 , 60,000 , 70,000 , or 80,000 Da. In one embodiment, the water
soluble polymer is a PEG or PSA with a molecular weight of 20, 000 Da.
                                              -26-

[00103]      In one embodiment, the therapeutic protein derivative retains the full functional
activity of native therapeutic protein products, and provides an extended half-life in vivo, as
compared to native therapeutic protein products. In another embodiment of the present
disclosure, the half-life of the construct is decreased or increased 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 0.9, 1.0,
1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or 10-fold relative to the in vivo half-life of native
therapeutic protein.
[00104]      In another embodiment, the therapeutic protein derivative retains at least 10, 11,
12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 34, 35, 36, 37,
38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44. 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56,57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62,
63,64,65,66,67,68,69,70,71,72,73,74,75,76,77,78,79,80,81,82,83,84,85,86,87,
88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100, 110, 120, 130, 140, or 150 percent (%)
biological activity relative to native blood coagulation protein.
[00105]      In one embodiment, the biological activity of, for example a conjugated AlPI
protein and native Al PI protein are determined by a neutrophil elastase inhibitory capacity
assay (Travis J, Johnson D (1981): Method Enzymol 80, 754-764).
[00106]      In one embodiment, the biological activity of the derivative and native blood
coagulation protein (e.g., FVII) are determined by the ratios of chromogenic activity to blood
coagulation factor antigen value (blood coagulation factor:Chr: blood coagulation factor:Ag).
        A. Sialic acid and PSA
[00107]      PSAs consist of polymers (generally homopolymers) of N-acetylneuraminic acid.
The secondary amino group normally bears an acetyl group, but it may instead bear a
glycolyl group. Possible substituents on the hydroxyl groups include acetyl, lactyl, ethyl,
sulfate, and phosphate groups.
                                             OH
                                      HO
                                  AcHN                          OH
                                         HO OH
                               N-AcetyIneuraminic acid
                                              Nieu5Ac
[00108]      Structure of sialic acid (N-acetylneuraminic acid)
                                                    - 27 -

[00109]     PSAs and modified PSAs (mPSAs) generally comprise linear polymers consisting
essentially of N-acetylneuraminic acid moieties linked by 2,8- or 2,9- glycosidic linkages or
combinations of these (e.g. alternating 2,8- and 2,9- linkages). In particularly preferred PSAs
and mPSAs, the glycosidic linkages are ax-2,8. Such PSAs and mPSAs are conveniently
derived from colominic acids, and are referred to herein as "CAs" and "mCAs". Typical
PSAs and mPSAs comprise at least 2, preferably at least 5, more preferably at least 10 and
most preferably at least 20 N-acetylneuraminic acid moieties. Thus, they may comprise from
2 to 300 N-acetylneuraminic acid moieties, preferably from 5 to 200 N-acetylneuraminic acid
moieties, or most preferably from 10 to 100 N-acetylneuraminic acid moieties. PSAs and
CAs preferably are essentially free of sugar moieties other than N-acetylneuraminic acid.
Thus PSAs and CAs preferably comprise at least 90%, more preferably at least 95% and most
preferably at least 98% N-acetylneuraminic acid moieties.
[00110]     Where PSAs and CAs comprise moieties other than N-acetylneuraminic acid (as,
for example in mPSAs and mCAs) these are preferably located at one or both of the ends of
the polymer chain. Such "other" moieties may, for example, be moieties derived from
terminal N-acetylneuraminic acid moieties by oxidation or reduction.
[00111]     For example, WO 2001/087922 describes such mPSAs and mCAs in which the
non-reducing terminal N-acetylneuraminic acid unit is converted to an aldehyde group by
reaction with sodium periodate. Additionally, WO 2005/016974 describes such mPSAs and
mCAs in which the reducing terminal N-acetylneuraminic acid unit is subjected to reduction
to reductively open the ring at the reducing terminal N-acetylneuraminic acid unit, whereby a
vicinal diol group is formed, followed by oxidation to convert the vicinal diol group to an
aldehyde group.
[00112]     Different PSA derivatives can be prepared from oxidized PSA containing a single
aldehyde group at the non reducing end. The preparation of aminooxy PSA is described
below in Example 5, the preparation of PSA maleimide is described below in Example 14.
PSA-NH2 containing a terminal amino group can be prepared by reductive amination with
NH4C1 and PSA-SH containing a terminal sulfhydryl group by reaction of PSA-NH2 with 2
iminothiolane (Traut's reagent), both procedures are described in US 7,645,860 B2. PSA
hydrazine can be prepared by reaction of oxidized PSA with hydrazine according to US
7,875,708 B2. PSA hydrazide can be prepared by reaction of oxidized PSA with adipic acid
dihydrazide (WO 2011/012850 A2).
                                              -28-

                                                                            I  -~'~-~C        -YN
                                                                                       UH
[00113]     Structure of colominic acid (homopolymer of N-acetylneuraminic acid)
[00114]     Colominic acids (a sub-class of PSAs) are homopolymers of N-acetylneuraminic
acid (NANA) with a (2->8) ketosidic linkage, and are produced, inter alia, by particular
strains of Escherichia coli possessing KI antigen. Colominic acids have many physiological
functions. They are important as a raw material for drugs and cosmetics.
[00115]     Comparative studies in vivo with polysialylated and unmodified asparaginase
revealed that polysialylation increased the half-life of the enzyme (Fernandes and
Gregoriadis, Biochimica Biophysica Acta 1341: 26-34, 1997).
[00116]     As used herein, "sialic acid moieties" includes sialic acid monomers or polymers
("polysaccharides") which are soluble in an aqueous solution or suspension and have little or
no negative impact, such as side effects, to mammals upon administration of the PSA-blood
coagulation protein conjugate in a pharmaceutically effective amount. The polymers are
characterized, in one aspect, as having 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 100,
200, 300, 400, or 500 sialic acid units. In certain aspects, different sialic acid units are
combined in a chain.
[00117]     In one embodiment of the present disclosure, the sialic acid portion of the
polysaccharide compound is highly hydrophilic, and in another embodiment the entire
compound is highly hydrophilic. Hydrophilicity is conferred primarily by the pendant
carboxyl groups of the sialic acid units, as well as the hydroxyl groups. The saccharide unit
may contain other functional groups, such as, amine, hydroxyl or sulphate groups, or
combinations thereof. These groups may be present on naturally-occurring saccharide
compounds, or introduced into derivative polysaccharide compounds.
[00118]     The naturally occurring polymer PSA is available as a polydisperse preparation
showing a broad size distribution (e.g. Sigma C-5762) and high polydispersity (PD). Because
                                               - 29 -

the polysaccharides are usually produced in bacteria carrying the inherent risk of copurifying
endotoxins, the purification of long sialic acid polymer chains may raise the probability of
increased endotoxin content. Short PSA molecules with 1-4 sialic acid units can also be
synthetically prepared (Kang SH et al., Chem Commun. 2000;227-8; Ress DK and Linhardt
RJ, Current Organic Synthesis. 2004;1:31-46), thus minimizing the risk of high endotoxin
levels. However PSA preparations with a narrow size distribution and low polydispersity,
which are also endotoxin-free, can now be manufactured. Polysaccharide compounds of
particular use for the present disclosure are, in one aspect, those produced by bacteria. Some
of these naturally-occurring polysaccharides are known as glycolipids. In one embodiment,
the polysaccharide compounds are substantially free of terminal galactose units.
        B.      Polyethylene glycol (PEG) and PEGylation
[00119]     In certain aspects, therapeutic proteins are conjugated to a water soluble polymer
by any of a variety of chemical methods (Roberts JM et al., Advan Drug Delivery Rev
2002;54:459-76). For example, in one embodiment a therapeutic protein is modified by the
conjugation of PEG to free amino groups of the protein using N-hydroxysuccinimide (NHS)
esters. In another embodiment the water soluble polymer, for example PEG, is coupled to
free SH groups using maleimide chemistry or the coupling of PEG hydrazides or PEG amines
to carbohydrate moieties of the therapeutic protein after prior oxidation.
[00120]     The conjugation is in one aspect performed by direct coupling (or coupling via
linker systems) of the water soluble polymer to a therapeutic protein under formation of
stable bonds. In addition degradable, releasable or hydrolysable linker systems are used in
certain aspects the present disclosure (Tsubery et al., J Biol Chem 2004;279:38118-24 /
Greenwald et al., J Med Chem 1999;42:3657-67 / Zhao et al., Bioconj Chem 2006;17:341-51
/ W02006/138572A2 / US7259224B2 / US7060259B2).
[00121]     In various embodiments of the present disclosure, a therapeutic protein is modified
via lysine residues by use of polyethylene glycol derivatives containing an active N
hydroxysuccinimide ester (NHS) such as succinimidyl succinate, succinimidyl glutarate or
succinimidyl propionate. These derivatives react with the lysine residues of the therapeutic
protein under mild conditions by forming a stable amide bond. In addition lysine residues
can be modified by reductive amination with PEG aldehydes in the presence of NaCNBH3 to
form a secondary amine bond. Carbohydrate residues (predominantly N-glycans) can be
modified with aminooxy PEG or PEG hydrazide after prior oxidation. Free SH groups in
                                               - 30 -

proteins can react with PEG maleimide, PEG vinylsulfones, PEG orthopyridyl-disulfides and
PEG iodacetamides. An overview of PEG chemistry is given by Roberts et al. (Adv Drug
Deliv Rev 2002;54:459-76).
[00122]     In various embodiments of the present disclosure, the chain length of the PEG
derivative is 5,000 Da. Other PEG derivatives with chain lengths of 500 to 2,000 Da, 2,000
to 5,000 Da, greater than 5,000 up to 10,000 Da or greater than 10,000 up to 20,000 Da, or
greater than 20,000 up to 150,000 Da are used in various embodiments, including linear and
branched structures. In one embodiment of the present disclosure, the chain length of the
PEG derivative is 20,000 Da.
[00123]     Alternative methods for the PEGylation of amino groups are, without limitation,
the chemical conjugation with PEG carbonates by forming urethane bonds, or the reaction
with aldehydes or ketones by reductive amination forming secondary amide bonds.
[00124]     In various embodiments of the present disclosure a therapeutic protein molecule is
chemically modified using PEG derivatives that are commercially available. These PEG
derivatives in alternative aspects have a linear or branched structures. Examples of PEG
derivatives containing NHS groups are listed below.
[00125]     The following PEG derivatives are non-limiting examples of those commercially
available from Nektar Therapeutics (Huntsville, Ala.; see www.nektar.com/PEG reagent
catalog; Nektar Advanced PEGylation, price list 2005-2006):
[00126]     mPEG-Succinimidyl propionate (mPEG-SPA)
                                                          0
                                                      0
                                  niPEG-CH 2 CH 2 -C-0-N
[00127]     mPEG-Succinimidyl a-methylbutanoate (mPEG-SMB)
                                                   - 31 -

                                                             0
                                                  0
                                                  ||
                                              II
                           mPrEG-CH 2 CH 2 C-C-0-N
                                          CH 3
                                                             0
[00128]   mPEG-CM-HBA-NHS (CM=carboxymethyl; HBA=Hydroxy butyric acid)
                                                               0
                                     0                 0
                            mPEG-CHC-0-CHCH2C-0-N
                                                I
                                               CH 3
                                                               0
[00129]   Structure of a Branched PEG-derivative (Nektar Therapeutics):
[00130]   Branched PEG N-Hydroxysuccinimide (mPEG2-NHS)
                                                         0
                               mPEG         O
                                            C-O-N
                               mPEG
                                                         0
[00131]   This reagent with branched structure is described in more detail by Kozlowski et
al. (BioDrugs 2001;5:419-29).
[00132]   Other non-limiting examples of PEG derivatives are commercially available from
NOF Corporation (Tokyo, Japan; see www.nof.co.jp/english: Catalogue 2005)
[00133]   General Structure of Linear PEG-derivatives (NOF Corp.):
                                                           0
                                CH 30(CH 2CH20       -X -7N
                                                           0
[00134]   X=carboxymethyl
                                               - 32  -

                                                                            0
                                                                0
                                                                11
                               CH 3 0(CH2 CH 2   O).-CH2 --      C- 0-N
                                                                            0
[00135]   X=carboxypentyl
                                                                              0
                                                                     0
                                                                     11
                          CH 3 0(CH2 CH 2       O).--(CH2)          -C-0-N
                                                                 5
                                                                              0
[00136]   x=succinate
                                                                                0
                                                   0                      0
                           CH 3 0(CH     2 C 2 0)--C-C-2H2         C-C-0-N
                                                                       2
                                            mPEG Succinimidyl succinate
[00137]   x=glutarate
                                                                               0
                                                   0                     0
                           CH 3 0(CH2 CH 2 O).--C-       (CH 2 )3 -C-0-N
                                            mPEG Succinimidyl glutamate
[00138]   Structures of Branched PEG-derivatives (NOF Corp.): 2,3
Bis(methylpolyoxyethylene-oxy)-1-(1,5-dioxo-5-succinimidyloxy, pentyloxy)propane
                  H3C-(OCH 2-CH      2 )a-O-CH2
                  113C-(OCII 2-CII2)f--O-CII                0                     0
                                                I           ||                    I
                                                CH,2-O-C-              CH2CHH-C -O-N
[00139]   2,3-Bis(methylpolyoxyethylene-oxy)-1-(succinimidyl carboxypentyloxy)propane
                                                       - 33 -

                      H 3 C-OCH    -- C
                                2       2 )--O- CH  2                                   O
                      H 3 C-(OCH2 -CH   2 )n--O-CH                                0
                                                           I                   --
                                                                                  ||
                                                                                  C-0-N
                                                 CH 2 -0--CH   2CH 2CHCH2 CH 2
                                                                                        0
[00140]     These propane derivatives show a glycerol backbone with a 1,2 substitution
pattern. In the present disclosure branched PEG derivatives based on glycerol structures with
1,3 substitution or other branched structures described in US2003/0143596A1 are also
contemplated.
[00141]     PEG derivatives with degradable (for example, hydrolysable linkers) as described
by Tsubery et al. (J Biol Chem 2004;279:38118-24) and Shechter et al. (WO04089280A3)
are also contemplated.
        C.      Hydroxyalkyl starch (HAS) and hydroxylethyl starch (HES)
[00142]     In various embodiments of the present disclosure, a therapeutic protein molecule
is chemically modified using hydroxyalkyl starch (HAS) or hydroxylethyl starch (HES) or
derivatives thereof.
[00143]     HES is a derivative of naturally occurring amylopectin and is degraded by alpha
amylase in the body. HES is a substituted derivative of the carbo- hydrate polymer
amylopectin, which is present in corn starch at a concentration of up to 95 % by weight. HES
exhibits advantageous biological properties and is used as a blood volume replacement agent
and in hemodilution therapy in the clinics (Sommermeyer et al. , 1987,
Krankenhauspharmazie, 8 (8), 271-278; and Weidler et al., 1991, Arzneim.-Forschung/Drug
Res., 41, 494-498).
[00144]     Amylopectin consists of glucose moieties, wherein in the main chain alpha-1,4
glycosidic bonds are present and at the branching sites alpha-1, 6-glycosidic bonds are found.
The physical-chemical properties of this molecule are mainly determined by the type of
glycosidic bonds. Due to the nicked alpha-1,4-glycosidic bond, helical structures with about
six glucose-monomers per turn are produced. The physicochemical as well as the
biochemical properties of the polymer can be modified via substitution. The introduction of a
hydroxyethyl group can be achieved via alkaline hydroxyethylation. By adapting the reaction
conditions it is possible to exploit the different reactivity of the respective hydroxy group in
                                                        - 34 -

the unsubstituted glucose monomer with respect to a hydroxyethylation. Owing to this fact,
the skilled person is able to influence the substitution pattern to a limited extent.
[00145]     HAS refers to a starch derivative which has been substituted by at least one
hydroxyalkyl group. Therefore, the term hydroxyalkyl starch is not limited to compounds
where the terminal carbohydrate moiety comprises hydroxyalkyl groups RI, R2, and/or R3,
but also refers to compounds in which at least one hydroxy group present anywhere, either in
the terminal carbohydrate moiety and/or in the remaining part of the starch molecule, HAS',
is substituted by a hydroxyalkyl group R1, R2, or R3.
[00146]     The alkyl group may be a linear or branched alkyl group which may be suitably
substituted. Preferably, the hydroxyalkyl group contains 1 to 10 carbon atoms, more
preferably from 1 to 6 carbon atoms, more preferably from 1 to 4 carbon atoms, and even
more preferably 2-4 carbon atoms. "Hydroxyalkyl starch" therefore preferably comprises
hydroxyethyl starch, hydroxypropyl starch and hydroxybutyl starch, wherein hydroxyethyl
starch and hydroxypropyl starch are particularly preferred.
[00147]     Hydroxyalkyl starch comprising two or more different hydroxyalkyl groups is also
comprised in the present disclosure. The at least one hydroxyalkyl group comprised in HAS
may contain two or more hydroxy groups. According to one embodiment, the at least one
hydroxyalkyl group comprised HAS contains one hydroxy group.
[00148]     The term HAS also includes derivatives wherein the alkyl group is mono-or
polysubstituted. In one embodiment, the alkyl group is substituted with a halogen, especially
fluorine, or with an aryl group, provided that the HAS remains soluble in water.
Furthermore, the terminal hydroxy group a of hydroxyalkyl group may be esterified or
etherified. HAS derivatives are described in WO/2004/024776, which is incorporated by
reference in its entirety.
        D. Methods of attachment
                                               - 35 -

[00149]     A therapeutic protein may be covalently linked to the polysaccharide compounds
by any of various techniques known to those of skill in the art.
[00150]     The coupling of the water soluble polymer can be carried out by direct coupling to
the protein or via linker molecules. One example of a chemical linker is MBPH (4-[4-N
Maleimidophenyl]butyric acid hydrazide) containing a carbohydrate-selective hydrazide and
a sulfhydryl-reactive maleimide group (Chamow et al., J Biol Chem 1992;267:15916-22).
Other exemplary and preferred linkers are described below.
[00151]     In various aspects of the present disclosure, sialic acid moieties are bound to a
therapeutic protein, e.g., albumin, AlPI, FVIIa or other members of the serpin or blood
coagulation factor protein families for example by the method described in US Patent No.
4,356,170, which is herein incorporated by reference.
[00152]     Other techniques for coupling PSA to polypeptides are also known and
contemplated by the present disclosure. For example, US Publication No. 2007/0282096
describes conjugating an amine or hydrazide derivative of, e.g., PSA, to proteins. In addition,
US Publication No. 2007/0191597 describes PSA derivatives containing an aldehyde group
for reaction with substrates (e.g., proteins) at the reducing end. These references are
incorporated by reference in their entireties.
[00153]     In addition, various methods are disclosed at column 7, line 15, through column 8,
line 5 of U.S. Patent No. 5,846,951 (incorporated by reference in its entirety). Exemplary
techniques include linkage through a peptide bond between a carboxyl group on one of either
the blood coagulation protein or polysaccharide and an amine group of the blood coagulation
protein or polysaccharide, or an ester linkage between a carboxyl group of the blood
coagulation protein or polysaccharide and a hydroxyl group of the therapeutic protein or
polysaccharide. Another linkage by which the therapeutic protein is covalently bonded to the
polysaccharide compound is via a Schiff base, between a free amino group on the blood
coagulation protein being reacted with an aldehyde group formed at the non-reducing end of
the polysaccharide by periodate oxidation (Jennings HJ and Lugowski C, J Immunol.
198 1;127:1011-8; Fernandes Al and Gregoriadis G, Biochim Biophys Acta. 1997;1341;26
34). The generated Schiff base is in one aspect stabilized by specific reduction with
NaCNBH3 to form a secondary amine. An alternative approach is the generation of terminal
free amino groups in the PSA by reductive amination with NH4C1 after prior oxidation.
Bifunctional reagents can be used for linking two amino or two hydroxyl groups. For
                                                - 36 -

example, PSA containing an amino group is coupled to amino groups of the protein with
reagents like BS3 (Bis(sulfosuccinimidyl)suberate / Pierce, Rockford, IL). In addition
heterobifunctional cross linking reagents like Sulfo-EMCS (N-F-Maleimidocaproyloxy)
sulfosuccinimide ester / Pierce) is used for instance to link amine and thiol groups.
[00154]     In another approach, a PSA hydrazide is prepared and coupled to the carbohydrate
moiety of the protein after prior oxidation and generation of aldehyde functions.
[00155]     As described above, a free amine group of the therapeutic protein reacts with the
1-carboxyl group of the sialic acid residue to form a peptidyl bond or an ester linkage is
formed between the 1-carboxylic acid group and a hydroxyl or other suitable active group on
a blood coagulation protein. Alternatively, a carboxyl group forms a peptide linkage with
deacetylated 5-amino group, or an aldehyde group of a molecule of a therapeutic protein
forms a Schiff base with the N-deacetylated 5-amino group of a sialic acid residue.
[00156]     The above description can be applied to PEG insofar as the reactive groups are the
same for PEG and PSA.
[00157]     Alternatively, the water soluble polymer is associated in a non-covalent manner
with a therapeutic protein. For example, the water soluble polymer and the pharmaceutically
active compound are in one aspect linked via hydrophobic interactions. Other non-covalent
associations include electrostatic interactions, with oppositely charged ions attracting each
other.
[00158]     In various embodiments, the therapeutic protein is linked to or associated with the
water soluble polymer in stoichiometric amounts (e.g., 1:1, 1:2, 1:3, 1:4, 1:5, 1:6, 1:7, 1:7,
1:8, 1:9, or 1:10, etc.). In various embodiments, 1-6, 7-12 or 13-20 water soluble polymers
are linked to the therapeutic protein. In still other embodiments, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,
11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 or more water soluble polymers are linked to the
therapeutic protein. In one embodiment, a single water soluble polymer is linked to the
therapeutic protein. In another embodiment, a single water soluble polymer is linked to the
therapeutic protein via a cysteine residue.
[00159]     Moreover, the therapeutic protein, prior to conjugation to a water soluble polymer
via one or more carbohydrate moieties, may be glycosylated in vivo or in vitro. These
glycosylated sites can serve as targets for conjugation of the proteins with water soluble
polymers (US Patent Application No. 20090028822, US Patent Application No.
2009/0093399, US Patent Application No. 2009/0081188, US Patent Application No.
                                                - 37 -

2007/0254836, US Patent Application No. 2006/0111279, and DeFrees S. et al.,
Glycobiology, 2006, 16, 9, 833-43).
         E. Aminooxy linkage
[00160]      In one embodiment, the reaction of hydroxylamine or hydroxylamine derivatives
with aldehydes (e.g., on a carbohydrate moiety following oxidation by sodium periodate) to
form an oxime group is applied to the preparation of conjugates of blood coagulation protein.
For example, a glycoprotein (e.g., a therapeutic protein according to the present disclosure
that has been glycosylated or is capable of being glycosylated) is first oxidized with a
oxidizing agent such as sodium periodate (NaIO4) (Rothfus JA and Smith EL., J Biol Chem
1963, 238, 1402-10; and Van Lenten L and Ashwell G., J Biol Chem 1971, 246, 1889-94).
The periodate oxidation of glycoproteins is based on the classical Malaprade reaction
described in 1928, the oxidation of vicinal diols with periodate to form an active aldehyde
group (Malaprade L., Analytical application, Bull Soc Chim France, 1928, 43, 683-96).
Additional examples for such an oxidizing agent are lead tetraacetate (Pb(OAc)4 ),
manganese acetate ( MnO(Ac)3 ), cobalt acetate (Co(OAc)2), thallium acetate (TlOAc),
cerium sulfate ( Ce(S04)2 ) (US 4,367,309) or potassium perruthenate (KRuO4 ) (Marko et
al., J Am Chem Soc 1997,119, 12661-2). By "oxidizing agent" a mild oxidizing compound
which is capable of oxidizing vicinal diols in carbohydrates, thereby generating active
aldehyde groups under physiological reaction conditions is meant.
[00161]      The second step is the coupling of the polymer containing an aminooxy group to
the oxidized carbohydrate moiety to form an oxime linkage. In various embodiments of the
present disclosure, this step can be carried out in the presence of catalytic amounts of the
nucleophilic catalyst aniline or aniline derivatives (Dirksen A and Dawson PE, Bioconjugate
Chem. 2008; Zeng Y et al., Nature Methods 2009;6:207-9). The aniline catalysis
dramatically accelerates the oxime ligation allowing the use of very low concentrations of the
reagents. In another embodiment of the present disclosure the oxime linkage is stabilized by
reduction with NaCNBH3 to form an alkoxyamine linkage (Figure 1). Additional catalysts
are described below.
[00162]      In various embodiments, the reaction steps to conjugate a water soluble polymer
to a therapeutic protein are carried out separately and sequentially (i.e., starting materials
(e.g., therapeutic protein, water soluble polymer, etc), reagents (e.g., oxidizing agents,
aniline, etc) and reaction products (e.g., oxidized carbohydrate on a therapeutic protein,
                                               - 38 -

activated aminooxy water soluble polymer, etc) are separated between individual reaction
steps). In another embodiment, the starting materials and reagents (e.g., therapeutic protein,
water-soluble polymer, thiol reductant, oxidizing agent, etc.) necessary to complete a
conjugation reaction according to the present disclosure is carried out in a single vessel (i.e.,
"a simultaneous reaction"). In one embodiment the native therapeutic protein is mixed with
the aminooxy- polymer reagent. Subsequently the oxidizing reagent is added and the
conjugation reaction is performed.
[00163]     Additional information on aminooxy technology can be found in the following
references, each of which is incorporated in their entireties: EP 1681303A1 (HASylated
erythropoietin); WO 2005/014024 (conjugates of a polymer and a protein linked by an oxime
linking group); W096/40662 (aminooxy-containing linker compounds and their application
in conjugates); WO 2008/025856 (Modified proteins); Peri F et al., Tetrahedron 1998, 54,
12269-78; Kubler-Kielb J and. Pozsgay V., J Org Chem 2005, 70, 6887-90; Lees A et al.,
Vaccine 2006, 24(6), 716-29; and Heredia KL et al., Macromoecules 2007, 40(14), 4772-9.
[00164]     In various embodiments, the water soluble polymer which is linked according to
the aminooxy technology described herein to an oxidized carbohydrate moiety of a
therapeutic protein (e.g., AlPI, FVIIa, or other members of the serpin or blood coagulation
factor protein families) include, but are not limited to polyethylene glycol (PEG), branched
PEG, PolyPEG@, polysialic acid (PSA), carbohydrate, polysaccharides, pullulane, chitosan,
hyaluronic acid, chondroitin sulfate, starch, hydroxylethyl starch (HES), hydroxyalkyl starch
(HAS), dermatan sulfate, dextran, carboxymethyl-dextran, polyalkylene oxide (PAO),
polyalkylene glycol (PAG), polypropylene glycol (PPG) polyoxazoline,
polyacryloylmorpholine, polyvinyl alcohol (PVA), polycarboxylate, polyvinylpyrrolidone,
polyphosphazene, polyoxazoline, polyethylene-co-maleic acid anhydride, polystyrene-co
maleic acid anhydride, poly(1-hydroxymethylethylene hydroxymethylformal) (PHF), 2
methacryloyloxy-2'-ethyltrimethylammoniumphosphate (MPC).
NUCLEOPHILIC CATALYSTS
[00165]     In various embodiments, the conjugation of water soluble polymers to therapeutic
proteins can be catalyzed by aniline or aniline derivatives. Aniline strongly catalyzes
aqueous reactions of aldehydes and ketones with amines to form stable imines such as
hydrazones and oximes. The following diagram compares an uncatalyzed versus the aniline
catalyzed oxime ligation reaction (Kohler JJ, ChemBioChem 2009;10:2147-50):
                                                - 39 -

                       H   H
                          ;NHOH
                          H     R
                                       CC
                                                         NHH
[00166]     Although aniline catalysis can accelerate the oxime ligation allowing short
reaction times and the use of low concentrations of the aminooxy reagent, aniline has toxic
properties that must be considered when, for example, the conjugated therapeutic protein is
form the basis of a pharmaceutical. For example, aniline has been shown to induce
methemoglobinemia (Harrison, J.H.., and Jollow, D.J., Molecular Pharmacology, 32(3) 423
431, 1987). Long-term dietary treatment of rats has been shown to induce tumors in the
spleen (Goodman, DG., et al., J Natl Cancer Inst., 73(1):265-73, 1984). In vitro studies have
also shown that aniline has the potential to induce chromosome mutations and has the
potentially genotoxic activity (Bombhard E.M. and Herbold B, Critical Reviews in
Toxicology 35,783-835, 2005).
[00167]     In various embodiments, aniline derivatives as alternative oxime ligation catalysts
are provided. Such aniline derivatives include, but are not limited to, o-amino benzoic acid,
                                               - 40 -

m-amino benzoic acid, p-amino benzoic acid, sulfanilic acid, o-aminobenzamide, o-toluidine,
m-toluidine, p-toluidine, o-anisidine, m-anisidine, and p-anisidine.
[00168]      In various embodiments, m-toluidine (aka meta-toluidine, m-methylaniline, 3
methylaniline, or 3-amino-1-methylbenzene) is used to catalyze the conjugation reactions
described herein. M-toluidine and aniline have similar physical properties and essentially the
same pKa value (m-toluidine:pKa 4.73, aniline:pKa 4.63).
[00169]      The nucleophilic catalysts of the present disclosure are useful for oxime ligation
(e.g, using aminooxy linkage) or hydrazone formation (e.g., using hydrazide chemistry). In
various embodiments of the present disclosure, the nucleophilic catalyst is provided in the
conjugation reaction at a concentration of 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.5, 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 0.9, 1.0, 1.5,
2.0, 2.5, 3.0, 3.5, 4.0, 4.5, 5.0, 5.5, 6.0, 6.5, 7.0, 7.5, 8.0, 8.5, 9.0, 9.5, 10.0, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15,
16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, or 50 mM. In various embodiments, the nucleophilic
catalyst is provided between 1 to 10 mM. In various embodiments of the present disclosure,
the pH range of conjugation reaction is 4.5, 5.0, 5.5, 6.0, 6.5, 7.0 and 7.5. In one
embodiment, the pH is between 5.5 to 6.5.
REDUCING AGENTS
[00170]      In various embodiments of the invention, a mild reduction step is used to reduce
an accessible cysteine residue of a therapeutic protein, thereby allowing conjugation of a
water-soluble polymer with a sulfhydryl-specific group to the therapeutic protein. As
disclosed herein, a reducing agent or "thiol reductant" includes, but is not limited to, Tris[2
carboxyethyl] phosphine hydrochloride (TCEP), dithiothreitol (DTT), dithioerythritol (DTE),
sodium borohydride (NaBH4), sodium cyanoborohydride (NaCNBH3), P-mercaptoethanol
(BME) and cysteine hydrochloride.
[00171]      In various embodiments, the maleimide group (MAL) is used for conjugation to
the thiol (SH) group of cysteine. One basic prerequisite for this type of modification is a
reduced cysteine which is accessible. However, since the cysteine side chain is usually
present in an oxidized state in the form of a disulfide bond, reduction with a suitable
reductant is carried out before conjugation.
[00172]      According to the present disclosure, the reductant is used in the lowest possible
concentration so as to prevent a possible loss of activity or unfolding of the native form of the
protein (Kim, et al., Bioconjugate Chem., 19:786-791 (2008)). In another embodiment,
ethylene diamine tetraacetic acid (EDTA) is added to the reduction feed. This helps keep the
                                                   -41-

re-oxidation rate of the reduced SH groups low (Yang, et al., Protein eng., 16:761-770
(2003)).
[00173]      Although DTT and BME are the most popular reducing agents, as disclosed herein
TCEP provides the advantages of being an effective reductive agent having an excellent
stability in solution. TCEP can reduce oxidized SH groups without reducing disulfide
bridges. The structure of proteins are not affected and this reagent and can therefore be used
in a "simultaneous" approach (simultaneous reduction and conjugation reaction in a one-pot
reaction) (Hermanson GT, Bioconjugate Techniques. 2nd edition, Elsevier, New York 2008).
[00174]      In one embodiment of the instant disclosure, an immobilized TCEP reducing gel
(Thermo Fisher Scientific, Rockford, IL) is contemplated for use in a "sequential" approach.
[00175]      In various embodiments, the ratio of reductive agent to SH group (e.g., present on
a therapeutic proteins ranges from equimolar up to 100 fold (i.e, 1:100, or 100-fold molar
excess). In various embodiments, the amount of reductive agent is 1-fold, 2-fold, 3-fold , 4
fold , 5-fold , 6-fold , 7-fold , 8-fold , 9-fold ,10-fold , 11-fold , 12-fold , 13-fold , 14-fold ,
15-fold , 16-fold , 17-fold , 18-fold , 19-fold or 20-fold molar excess relative to the
therapeutic protein concentration.
PURIFICATION OF CONJUGATED PROTEINS
[00176]      In various embodiments, purification of a protein that has been incubated with an
oxidizing agent and/or a therapeutic protein that has been conjugated with a water soluble
polymer according to the present disclosure, is desired. Numerous purification techniques are
known in the art and include, without limitation, chromatographic methods such as ion
exchange chromatography, hydrophobic interaction chromatography, size exclusion
chromatography and affinity chromatography or combinations thereof, filtration methods,
and precipitation methods (Guide to Protein Purification, Meth. Enzymology Vol 463 (edited
by Burgess RR and Deutscher MP), 2           edition, Academic Press 2009).
EXEMPLARY EMBODIMENTS
[00177]      [KEEP THE FOLLOWING PARAGRAPHS WHICH WERE INCLUDED IN
THE PROVISIONAL APPLICATION] The present disclosure provides the following
exemplary embodiments:
[00178]      Al. A method of preparing a therapeutic protein conjugate comprising the step of
                                                  - 42 -

[00179]     contacting a therapeutic protein, or biologically-active fragment thereof, with a
thiol reductant and a water soluble polymer under conditions that (a) produce a reduced
cysteine sulfhydryl group on the therapeutic protein, and (b) allow conjugation of the water
soluble polymer to the reduced cysteine sulfhydryl group;
[00180]     said therapeutic protein having an amino acid sequence with no more than one
accessible cysteine sulhydryl group.
[00181]     A2. The method of paragraph Al wherein the amino acid sequence of the
therapeutic protein contains no more than one cysteine residue.
[00182]     A3. The method according to any one of paragraphs Al-A2 comprising a quantity
of therapeutic protein between 0.100 and 10.0 gram weight.
[00183]     A4. The method according to any one of paragraphs Al-A3 wherein the
accessible cysteine sulhydryl group is present in a native amino acid sequence of the
therapeutic protein.
[00184]     A5. The method according to any one of paragraphs Al-A3 wherein the amino
acid sequence of therapeutic protein is modified to include the accessible cysteine sulfhydryl
group.
[00185]     A6. The method according to any one of paragraphs Al and A3-A5 wherein the
conditions that produce a reduced cysteine sulfhydryl group on the therapeutic protein do not
reduce a disulfide bond between other cysteine amino acids in the protein.
[00186]     A7. The method according to any one of paragraphs Al-A6 wherein the
conditions prevent formation of an adduct between the thiol reductant and a water-soluble
polymer.
[00187]     A8. The method according to any one of paragraphs Al-A7 wherein the
therapeutic protein is a serpin.
[00188]     A9. The method according to any one of paragraphs Al-A7 wherein the
therapeutic protein is a blood coagulation protein.
The present disclosure also provides the following exemplary embodiments:
[00189]     B 1. A method of preparing a therapeutic protein conjugate comprising the steps
of:
                                               - 43 -

[00190]     contacting a therapeutic protein or biologically-active fragment thereof with a
thiol reductant under conditions that allow the reduction of a sulfhydryl group on the
therapeutic protein, and
[00191]     contacting a water-soluble polymer with the therapeutic protein under conditions
that allow conjugation of the water-soluble polymer to the reduced sulfhydryl group;
[00192]     said therapeutic protein comprising at least one cysteine residue, and
[00193]     said therapeutic protein comprising only one cysteine residue which comprises an
accessible sulfhydryl group that is completely or partially oxidized, said only one cysteine
residue is not involved in a di-sulfide bond with another cysteine residue in the therapeutic
protein's amino acid sequence.
[00194]     B2. The method according to paragraph B 1 wherein the thiol reductant
concentration is between 1 and 100-fold molar excess relative to the therapeutic protein
concentration. In one embodiment the thio reductant concentration is between 1 and 10-fold
molar excess relative to the therapeutic protein concentration.
[00195]     B3. The method according to any one of the previous paragraphs B1-B2 wherein
at least 70% of the therapeutic protein conjugate comprises a single water-soluble polymer.
In one embodiment, 10-100% of the therapeutic protein conjugate comprises a single water
soluble polymer.
[00196]     B4. The method according to any one of the previous paragraphs B1-B3 further
comprising the step of purifying the therapeutic protein conjugate.
[00197]     B5. The method according to paragraph B4 wherein the therapeutic protein
conjugate is purified using a technique selected from the group consisting of ion-exchange
chromatography, hydrophobic interaction chromatography, size exclusion chromatography
and affinity chromatography or combinations thereof.
[00198]     B6. The method according to any one of the previous paragraphs B1-B5 wherein
the therapeutic protein, water-soluble polymer and thiol reductant are incubated together in a
single vessel, wherein the reduction of the oxidized SH group and the conjugation reaction is
carried out simultaneously.
[00199]     B7. The method according to any one of paragraphs B1-B5 wherein the thiol
reductant is removed following incubation with the therapeutic protein and prior to
                                              - 44 -

incubating the therapeutic protein with the water-soluble polymer, wherein the reduction of
the oxidized SH group and the conjugation reaction is carried out sequentially.
[00200]      B8. The method according to any one of the previous paragraphs B1-B7 wherein
the only one cysteine residue is present in the native amino acid sequence of the therapeutic
protein.
[00201]      B9. The method according to any one of paragraphs B1-B7 wherein the
therapeutic protein's amino acid sequence is modified to comprise the only one cysteine
residue.
[00202]      B1O. The method according to any one of the previous paragraphs B1-B9 wherein
the therapeutic protein is a glycoprotein.
[00203]      B11. The method according to paragraph B10 wherein the therapeutic protein is
glycosylated in vivo.
[00204]      B12. The method according to paragraph B10 wherein the therapeutic protein is
glycosylated in vitro.
[00205]      B13. The method according to any one of the previous paragraphs B1-B12
wherein the therapeutic protein conjugate has an increased half-life relative to native
therapeutic protein.
[00206]      B 14. The method according to paragraph B 13 wherein the therapeutic protein
conjugate has at least a 1.5-fold increase in half-life relative to native therapeutic protein. In
one embodiment, the therapeutic protein conjugate has at least a 1 to 10-fold increase in half
life relative to native therapeutic protein.
[00207]      B15. The method according to any one of the previous paragraphs B1-B14
wherein the therapeutic protein conjugate retains at least 20% biological activity relative to
native therapeutic protein.
[00208]      B 16. The method according to paragraph B 15 wherein the therapeutic protein
conjugate retains at least 60% biological activity relative to native therapeutic protein. In one
embodiment, the therapeutic protein conjugate retains between 10 to 100% biological activity
relative to native therapeutic protein.
[00209]      B17. The method according to any one of the previous paragraphs B1-B16
wherein the thiol reductant is selected from the group consisting of: Tris[2-carboxyethyl]
phosphine hydrochloride (TCEP), dithiothreitol (DTT), dithioerythritol (DTE), sodium
                                               - 45 -

borohydride (NaBH4), sodium cyanoborohydride (NaCNBH3), P-mercaptoethanol (BME),
cysteine hydrochloride and cysteine.
[00210]     B18. The method according to paragraph B17 wherein the thiol reductant is
TCEP.
[00211]     B19. The method according to any one of the previous paragraphs B1-B18
wherein the water-soluble polymer is selected from the group consisting of linear, branched
or multi-arm water soluble polymer.
[00212]     B20. The method according to any one of the previous paragraphs B1-B19
wherein the water-soluble polymer has a molecular weight between 3,000 and 150,000
Daltons (Da).
[00213]     B21. The method according to paragraph B20 wherein the water-soluble polymer
is linear and has a molecular weight between 10,000 and 50,000 Da. In one embodiment, the
water-soluble polymer is linear and has a molecular weight of 20,000.
[00214]     B22. The method according to any one of the previous paragraphs B1-B21
wherein the water-soluble polymer is selected from the group consisting of polyethylene
glycol (PEG), branched PEG, PolyPEG@ (Warwick Effect Polymers; Coventry, UK),
polysialic acid (PSA), starch, hydroxylethyl starch (HES), hydroxyalkyl starch (HAS),
carbohydrate, polysaccharides, pullulane, chitosan, hyaluronic acid, chondroitin sulfate,
dermatan sulfate, dextran, carboxymethyl-dextran, polyalkylene oxide (PAO), polyalkylene
glycol (PAG), polypropylene glycol (PPG), polyoxazoline, polyacryloylmorpholine,
polyvinyl alcohol (PVA), polycarboxylate, polyvinylpyrrolidone, polyphosphazene,
polyoxazoline, polyethylene-co-maleic acid anhydride, polystyrene-co-maleic acid
anhydride, poly(1-hydroxymethylethylene hydroxymethylformal) (PHF), 2-methacryloyloxy
2'-ethyltrimethylammoniumphosphate (MPC), and functional derivatives thereof.
[00215]     B23. The method according to paragraph B22 wherein the water soluble polymer
is derivatized to contain a sulfhydryl-specific group selected from the group consisting of:
maleimide (MAL), vinylsulfones, orthopyridyl-disulfides (OPSS) and iodacetamides.
[00216]     B24. The method according to paragraph B23 wherein the water soluble polymer
is PEG and the sulfhydryl-specific group is MAL.
[00217]     B25. The method according to paragraph B23 wherein the water soluble polymer
is PSA and the sulfhydryl-specific group is MAL.
                                               - 46 -

[00218]      B26. The method according to any one of the previous paragraphs B1-B25
wherein the therapeutic protein is selected from the group consisting of: alpha-I proteinase
inhibitor (AiPI), antithrombin III, alpha-i -antichymotrypsin, human serum albumin,
alcoholdehydrogenase, biliverdin reductase, buturylcholinesterase, complement C5a, cortisol
binding protein, creatine kinase, coagulation factor V (FV), coagulation factor VII (FVII),
ferritin, heparin cofactor, interleukin 2, protein C inhibitor, tissue factor and vitronectin.
[00219]      In one embodiment, the therapeutic protein is selected from the group consisting
of: ovalbumin, plasminogen-activator inhibitor, neuroserpin, Cl-Inhibitor, nexin, alpha-2
antiplasmin, heparin cofactor II, alphaI-antichymotrypsin, alphaI-microglobulin, coagulation
factor VIII (FVIII), and coagulation factor XIII (XIII).
[00220]      In another embodiment, the therapeutic protein is a protein of the serpin
superfamily selected from the group consisting of: AlPI (alpha-I proteinase inhibitor), or
AiAT (alpha- I-antitrypsin), ATR (alpha-i -antitrypsin-related protein), AACT or ACT
(alpha-I-antichymotrypsin), P14 (proteinase inhibitor 4), PCI or PROCI (protein C inhibitor),
CBG, (corticosteroid-binding globulin), TBG (thyroxine-binding globulin), AGT
(angiotensinogen), centerin, PZI (protein Z-dependent protease inhibitor), P12 (proteinase
inhibitor 2), PAI2 or PLANH2 (plasminogen activator inhibitor-2), SCCAI (squamous cell
carcinoma antigen 1), SCCA2 (squamous cell carcinoma antigen 2), P15 (proteinase inhibitor
5), P16 (proteinase inhibitor 6), megsin, P18 (proteinase inhibitor 8), P19 (proteinase inhibitor
9), PIiO (proteinase inhibitor 10), epipin, yukopin, PIi3 (proteinase inhibitor 13), PI8LI
(proteinase inhibitor 8-like 1), AT3 or ATIII (antithrombin-III), HC-II or HCF2 (heparin
cofactor II), PAIl or PLANHI (plasminogen activator inhibitor-1), PNI (proteinase nexin I),
PEDF, (pigment epithelium-derived factor), PLI (plasmin inhibitor), Ci IN or CI INH
(plasma proteinase CI inhibitor), CBPI (collagen-binding protein 1), CBP2 (collagen
binding protein 2), PIi2 (proteinase inhibitor 12), and PIi4 (proteinase inhibitor 14).
[00221]      In another embodiment, the therapeutic protein is a blood coagulation factor
protein selected from the group consisting of: Factor IX (FIX), Factor VIII (FVIII), Factor
VIIa (FVIIa), Von Willebrand Factor (VWF), Factor FV (FV), Factor X (FX), Factor XI
(FXI), Factor XII (FXII), thrombin (FII), protein C, protein S, tPA, PAI-1, tissue factor (TF)
and ADAMTS 13 protease.
[00222]      B27. The method according to paragraph B26 wherein the therapeutic protein is
AiPI.
                                                - 47 -

[00223]     B28. A therapeutic protein conjugate produced by the method according to any
one of the previous paragraphs B 1-B27.
[00224]     B29. A method of preparing an AlPI conjugate comprising the steps of:
[00225]     contacting the AlPI with TCEP under conditions that allow the reduction of a
sulfhydryl group on the AlPI, and
[00226]     contacting a linear PEG derivatized to contain a MAL group with the AlPI under
conditions that allow conjugation of the water-soluble polymer to the reduced sulfhydryl
group;
[00227]     said AlPI comprising only one cysteine residue which comprises an accessible
sulfhydryl group that is completely or partially oxidized, said only one cysteine residue is not
involved in a di-sulfide bond with another cysteine residue in the A1PI's amino acid
sequence;
[00228]     said TCEP concentration is between 3 and 4-fold molar excess relative to the
A IPI concentration;
[00229]     wherein at least 70% of the AlPI conjugate comprises a single water-soluble
polymer;
[00230]     said A1PI conjugate having an increased half-life relative to native AlPI; and
[00231]     said AlPI conjugate retaining at least 60% biological activity relative to native
AlPI.
[00232]     B30. A method of preparing a serpin conjugate comprising contacting a water
soluble polymer or functional derivative thereof with a serpin or biologically-active fragment
thereof under conditions that allow conjugation;
[00233]     said water-soluble polymer or functional derivative thereof selected from the
group consisting of polysialic acid (PSA), starch, hydroxylethyl starch (HES), hydroxyalkyl
starch (HAS), carbohydrate, polysaccharides, pullulane, chitosan, hyaluronic acid,
chondroitin sulfate, dermatan sulfate, dextran, carboxymethyl-dextran, PolyPEG@ (Warwick
Effect Polymers; Coventry, UK), polyalkylene oxide (PAO), polyalkylene glycol (PAG),
polypropylene glycol (PPG), polyoxazoline, polyacryloylmorpholine, polyvinyl alcohol
(PVA), polycarboxylate, polyvinylpyrrolidone, polyphosphazene, polyoxazoline,
polyethylene-co-maleic acid anhydride, polystyrene-co-maleic acid anhydride, poly(1
hydroxymethylethylene hydroxymethylformal) (PHF), 2-methacryloyloxy-2'
                                              -48-

ethyltrimethylammoniumphosphate (MPC), N-hydroxysuccinimide ester-PEG (NHS-PEG),
PEG carbonate, PEG aldehydes, aminooxy-PEG, PEG hydrazide (PEG-Hz), PEG hydrazine,
PEG thiol (PEG-SH), amino PEG (PEG -NH2), carboxyl PEG (PEG-COOH), Hydroxyl PEG
(PEG-OH), PEG epoxide, oxidized PSA, aminooxy-PSA, PSA hydrazide (PSA-Hz), PSA
hydrazine, PEG vinylsulfone, PEG orthpyridyl-disulfide (OPSS), PEG ioacetamide, PEG
benzotriazole, PSA thiol (PSA-SH), MAL-PSA and amino PSA (PSA-NH2).
[00234]     said serpin conjugate retaining at least 60% biological activity relative to native
glycosylated serpin.
[00235]     B3 1. The method according to paragraph B30 wherein at least 70% of the serpin
conjugate comprises at least one water-soluble polymer. In one embodiment, 10-100 % of
the serpin conjugate comprises at least one water-soluble polymer.
[00236]     B32. The method according to any one of paragraphs B30-B31 further
comprising the step of purifying the serpin conjugate.
[00237]     B33. The method according to paragraph B32 wherein the serpin conjugate is
purified using a technique selected from the group consisting of ion-exchange
chromatography, hydrophobic interaction chromatography, size exclusion chromatography
and affinity chromatography or combinations thereof.
[00238]     B34. The method according to any one of paragraphs B30-B33 wherein the serpin
is a glycoprotein.
[00239]     B35. The method according to claim 34 wherein the serpin is glycosylated in
vivo.
[00240]     B36. The method according to paragraph B34 wherein the serpin is glycosylated
in vitro.
[00241]     B37. The method according to any one of paragraphs B30-B36 wherein the serpin
conjugate has an increased half-life relative to native therapeutic protein.
[00242]     B38. The method according to paragraph B37 wherein the serpin conjugate has at
least a 1.5-fold increase in half-life relative to native serpin. In one embodiment, the serpin
conjugate has between 1 and 10-fold increase in half-life relative to native serpin.
[00243]     B39. The method according to any one of paragraphs B30-B38 wherein the serpin
conjugate retains at least 20% biological activity relative to native therapeutic protein.
                                                 - 49 -

[00244]      B40. The method according to paragraph B39 wherein the serpin conjugate
retains at least 60% biological activity relative to native serpin. In one embodiment, the
serpin conjugate retains between 10 and 100% biological activity relative to native serpin.
[00245]      B41. The method according to any one of paragraphs B30-B40 wherein the
water-soluble polymer is selected from the group consisting of linear, branched or multi-arm
water soluble polymer.
[00246]      B42. The method according to any one paragraphs B30-B41 wherein the water
soluble polymer has a molecular weight between 3,000 and 150,000 Daltons (Da).
[00247]      B43. The method according to paragraph B42 wherein the water-soluble polymer
is linear and has a molecular weight between 10,000 and 50,000 Da.
[00248]      B44. The method according to any one of paragraphs B30-B43 wherein the water
soluble polymer functional derivative is PEG-NHS.
[00249]      B45. The method according to any one of paragraphs B30-B43 wherein the water
soluble polymer functional derivative is aminooxy-PEG and the serpin is glycosylated.
[00250]      B46. The method according to any one of paragraphs B30-B43 wherein the water
soluble polymer functional derivative is aminooxy-PSA and the serpin is glycosylated.
[00251]      B47. The method according to any one of paragraphs B45-B46 wherein a
carbohydrate moiety of the glycosylated serpin is oxidized by incubation with a buffer
comprising an oxidizing agent selected from the group consisting of sodium periodate
(NaIO4), lead tetraacetate (Pb(OAc)4 ) and potassium perruthenate (KRuO4) prior to
contacting with the water-soluble polymer functional derivative; wherein an oxime linkage is
formed between the oxidized carbohydrate moiety and an active aminooxy group on the
water-soluble polymer functional derivative.
[00252]      B48. The method according to paragraph B47 wherein the oxidizing agent is
sodium periodate (NaIO4).
[00253]      B49. The method according to paragraph B46 wherein the aminooxy-PSA is
prepared by reacting an activated aminooxy linker with oxidized PSA;
[00254]      wherein the aminooxy linker is selected from the group consisting of:
[00255]      a) a 3-oxa-pentane-1,5-dioxyamine linker of the formula:
                                                -50-

[00256]     b) a 3,6,9-trioxa-undecane-1,11-dioxyamine linker of the formula:
and
[00257]     c) a 3,6,9,12,15-penatoxa-heptadecane- 1,17-dioxyamine linker of the formula:
         H2N    0OO                                                                 NH2
[00258]     wherein the PSA is oxidized by incubation with a oxidizing agent to form a
terminal aldehyde group at the non-reducing end of the PSA.
[00259]     B50. The method according to any one of paragraphs B47-B49 wherein
contacting the oxidized carbohydrate moiety with the activated water soluble polymer
functional derivative occurs in a buffer comprising a nucleophilic catalyst selected from the
group consisting of aniline, o-amino benzoic acid, m-amino benzoic acid, p-amino benzoic
acid, sulfanilic acid, o-aminobenzamide, o-toluidine, m-toluidine, p-toluidine, o-anisidine, m
anisidine, p-anisidine and derivatives thereof.
[00260]     B51. The method according to any one of paragraphs B47-B50 further
comprising the step of reducing the oxime linkage by incubating the therapeutic protein in a
buffer comprising a reducing compound selected from the group consisting of sodium
cyanoborohydride (NaCNBH3) and ascorbic acid (vitamin C).
[00261]     B5 1A. The method according to any one of paragraphs B30-B51 wherein the
serpin is AlPI.
[00262]     B52. A serpin conjugate prepared by the method according to any one of
paragraphs B30-B51 and B51A.
[00263]     B53. A therapeutic protein conjugate comprising:
[00264]     (a) a therapeutic protein or biologically-active fragment thereof comprising at least
one cysteine residue, said therapeutic protein comprising only one cysteine residue which
comprises an accessible sulfhydryl group that is completely or partially oxidized, said only
                                               -51-

one cysteine residue is not involved in a disulfide bond with another cysteine residue in the
therapeutic protein's amino acid sequence; and
[00265]      (b) one water-soluble polymer or functional derivative thereof bound to said
sulfhydryl group of the therapeutic protein.
[00266]      B54. The therapeutic protein conjugate according to paragraph B53 wherein the
only one cysteine residue is present in the native amino acid sequence of the therapeutic
protein.
[00267]      B55. The therapeutic protein conjugate according to paragraph B53 wherein the
therapeutic protein's amino acid sequence is modified to comprise the only one cysteine
residue.
[00268]      B56. The therapeutic protein conjugate according to claim any one of paragraphs
B53-B55 wherein the therapeutic protein is a glycoprotein.
[00269]      B57. The therapeutic protein conjugate according to paragraph B56 wherein the
therapeutic protein is glycosylated in vivo.
[00270]      B58. The therapeutic protein conjugate according to paragraph B56 wherein the
therapeutic protein is glycosylated in vivo.
[00271]      B59. The therapeutic protein conjugate according to any one of paragraphs B53
B58 wherein the therapeutic protein conjugate has at least a 1.5-fold increase in half-life
relative to native therapeutic protein. In one embodiment, the therapeutic protein conjugate
has at least between 1 and 10-fold increase in half-life relative to native therapeutic protein.
[00272]      B60. The therapeutic protein conjugate according to any one of paragraphs B53
B59 wherein the therapeutic protein conjugate retains at least 60% biological activity relative
to native therapeutic protein. In one embodiment, the therapeutic protein conjugate retains at
least 10 and 100% biological activity relative to native therapeutic protein.
[00273]      B61. The therapeutic protein conjugate according to any one of paragraphs B53
B60 wherein the water-soluble polymer is selected from the group consisting of linear,
branched or multi-arm water soluble polymer.
[00274]      B62. The therapeutic protein conjugate according to any one of paragraphs B53
B61 wherein the water-soluble polymer has a molecular weight between 3,000 and 150,000
Daltons (Da).
                                              -52-

[00275]      B63. The therapeutic protein conjugate according to any one of paragraphs B53
B62 wherein the water-soluble polymer is selected from the group consisting of polyethylene
glycol (PEG), branched PEG, PolyPEG@ (Warwick Effect Polymers; Coventry, UK),
polysialic acid (PSA), starch, hydroxylethyl starch (HES), hydroxyalkyl starch (HAS),
carbohydrate, polysaccharides, pullulane, chitosan, hyaluronic acid, chondroitin sulfate,
dermatan sulfate, starch, dextran, carboxymethyl-dextran, polyalkylene oxide (PAO),
polyalkylene glycol (PAG), polypropylene glycol (PPG), polyoxazoline,
polyacryloylmorpholine, polyvinyl alcohol (PVA), polycarboxylate, polyvinylpyrrolidone,
polyphosphazene, polyoxazoline, polyethylene-co-maleic acid anhydride, polystyrene-co
maleic acid anhydride, poly(1-hydroxymethylethylene hydroxymethylformal) (PHF), 2
methacryloyloxy-2'-ethyltrimethylammoniumphosphate (MPC), and functional derivatives
thereof.
[00276]      B64. The therapeutic protein conjugate according to any one of paragraphs B53
B63 wherein the water soluble polymer is derivatized to contain a sulfhydryl-specific group
selected from the group consisting of: maleimide (MAL), vinylsulfones, orthopyridyl
disulfides (OPSS) and iodacetamides.
[00277]      B65. The therapeutic protein conjugate according to paragraph B64 wherein the
water soluble polymer is PEG and the sulfhydryl-specific group is MAL.
[00278]      B66. The therapeutic protein conjugate according to paragraph B64 wherein the
water soluble polymer is PSA and the sulfhydryl-specific group is MAL.
[00279]      B67. The therapeutic protein conjugate according to any one of paragraphs B53
B66 wherein the therapeutic protein is selected from the group consisting of: AlPI alpha-i
proteinase inhibitor (A1PI), antithrombin III, alpha- 1-antichymotrypsin, human serum
albumin, alcoholdehydrogenase, biliverdin reductase, buturylcholinesterase, complement
C5a, cortisol-binding protein, creatine kinase, coagulation factor V (FV), coagulation factor
VII (FVII), ferritin, heparin cofactor, interleukin 2, protein C inhibitor, tissue factor and
vitronectin.
[00280]      In one embodiment, the therapeutic protein is selected from the group consisting
of: ovalbumin, plasminogen-activator inhibitor, neuroserpin, Cl-Inhibitor, nexin, alpha-2
antiplasmin, heparin cofactor II, alphal-antichymotrypsin, alpha1-microglobulin, coagulation
factor VIII (FVIII), and coagulation factor XIII (XIII).
                                                -53-

[00281]     In another embodiment, the therapeutic protein is a protein of the serpin
superfamily selected from the group consisting of: AIPI (alpha-I proteinase inhibitor), or
A1AT (alpha- 1-antitrypsin), ATR (alpha-i -antitrypsin-related protein), AACT or ACT
(alpha-I-antichymotrypsin), P14 (proteinase inhibitor 4), PCI or PROCI (protein C inhibitor),
CBG, (corticosteroid-binding globulin), TBG (thyroxine-binding globulin), AGT
(angiotensinogen), centerin, PZI (protein Z-dependent protease inhibitor), P12 (proteinase
inhibitor 2), PAI2 or PLANH2 (plasminogen activator inhibitor-2), SCCA1 (squamous cell
carcinoma antigen 1), SCCA2 (squamous cell carcinoma antigen 2), P15 (proteinase inhibitor
5), P16 (proteinase inhibitor 6), megsin, P18 (proteinase inhibitor 8), P19 (proteinase inhibitor
9), PRl0 (proteinase inhibitor 10), epipin, yukopin, P113 (proteinase inhibitor 13), PI8LI
(proteinase inhibitor 8-like 1), AT3 or ATIII (antithrombin-III), HC-II or HCF2 (heparin
cofactor II), PAIl or PLANHI (plasminogen activator inhibitor-1), PNI (proteinase nexin I),
PEDF, (pigment epithelium-derived factor), PLI (plasmin inhibitor), Ci IN or CI INH
(plasma proteinase CI inhibitor), CBPI (collagen-binding protein 1), CBP2 (collagen
binding protein 2), PIi2 (proteinase inhibitor 12), and PIi4 (proteinase inhibitor 14).
[00282]     In another embodiment, the therapeutic protein is a blood coagulation factor
protein selected from the group consisting of: Factor IX (FIX), Factor VIII (FVIII), Factor
VIIa (FVIIa), Von Willebrand Factor (VWF), Factor FV (FV), Factor X (FX), Factor XI
(FXI), Factor XII (FXII), thrombin (FII), protein C, protein S, tPA, PAI-1, tissue factor (TF)
and ADAMTS 13 protease.
[00283]     B68. The therapeutic protein conjugate according to paragraph B67 wherein the
therapeutic protein is AlPI.
[00284]     B69. A serpin conjugate comprising:
[00285]     (a) a serpin or biologically-active fragment thereof; and
[00286]     (b) at least one water-soluble polymer or functional derivative thereof bound to
said serpin or biologically0active fragment thereof, said water-soluble polymer or functional
derivative thereof selected from the group consisting of polysialic acid (PSA), starch,
hydroxylethyl starch (HES), hydroxyalkyl starch (HAS), carbohydrate, polysaccharides,
pullulane, chitosan, hyaluronic acid, chondroitin sulfate, dermatan sulfate, dextran,
PolyPEG@ (Warwick Effect Polymers; Coventry, UK), carboxymethyl-dextran, polyalkylene
oxide (PAO), polyalkylene glycol (PAG), polypropylene glycol (PPG), polyoxazoline,
polyacryloylmorpholine, polyvinyl alcohol (PVA), polycarboxylate, polyvinylpyrrolidone,
                                                -54-

polyphosphazene, polyoxazoline, polyethylene-co-maleic acid anhydride, polystyrene-co
maleic acid anhydride, poly(1-hydroxymethylethylene hydroxymethylformal) (PHF), 2
methacryloyloxy-2'-ethyltrimethylammoniumphosphate (MPC), N-hydroxysuccinimide
ester-PEG (NHS-PEG), PEG carbonate, PEG aldehydes, aminooxy-PEG, PEG hydrazide
(PEG-Hz), PEG hydrazine, PEG thiol (PEG-SH), amino PEG (PEG -NH2), carboxyl PEG
(PEG-COOH), Hydroxyl PEG (PEG-OH), PEG epoxide, oxidized PSA, aminooxy-PSA, PSA
hydrazide (PSA-Hz), PSA hydrazine, PEG vinylsulfone, PEG orthpyridyl-disulfide (OPSS),
PEG ioacetamide, PEG benzotriazole, PSA thiol (PSA-SH), MAL-PSA and amino PSA
(PSA-NH2);
said serpin conjugate retaining at least 60% biological activity relative to native glycosylated
serpin.
[00287]      B70. The serpin conjugate according to paragraph B69 wherein the serpin is a
glycoprotein.
[00288]      B7 1. The serpin conjugate according to paragraph B70 wherein the serpin is
glycosylated in vivo.
[00289]      B72. The serpin conjugate according to paragraph B70 wherein the serpin is
glycosylated in vitro.
[00290]      B73. The serpin conjugate according to any one of paragraphs B69-B72 wherein
the serpin conjugate has at least a 1.5-fold increase in half-life relative to native serpin. In
one embodiment, the serpin conjugate has at least a between 1 and 10-fold increase in half
life relative to native serpin.
[00291]      B74. The serpin conjugate according to any one of paragraphs B69-B73 wherein
the water-soluble polymer is selected from the group consisting of linear, branched or multi
arm water soluble polymer.
[00292]      B75. The serpin conjugate according to any one of paragraphs B69-B74 wherein
the water-soluble polymer has a molecular weight between 3,000 and 150,000 Daltons (Da).
[00293]      B76. The serpin conjugate according to paragraph B75 wherein the water-soluble
polymer is linear and has a molecular weight between 10,000 and 50,000 Da. In one
embodiment, the water-soluble polymer is linear and has a molecular weight of 20,000 Da.
[00294]      B77. The serpin conjugate according to any one of paragraphs B69-B76 wherein
the water soluble polymer functional derivative is PEG-NHS.
                                               -55-

[00295]     B78. The serpin conjugate according to any one of paragraphs B69-B76 wherein
the water soluble polymer functional derivative is aminooxy-PEG and the serpin is
glycosylated.
[00296]     B79. The serpin conjugate according to any one of paragraphs B69-B76 wherein
the water soluble polymer functional derivative is aminooxy-PSA and the serpin is
glycosylated.
[00297]     B80. The serpin conjugate according to any one of paragraphs B69-B79 wherein
the serpin is selected from the group consisting of:A1PI, antihrombin III, alpha-1
antichymotrypsin, ovalbumin, plasminogen-activator inhibitor, neuroserpin, Cl-Inhibitor,
nexin, alpha-2-antiplasmin and heparin cofactor II.
[00298]     B81. A method of treating a disease comprising administering a therapeutic
protein conjugate according to any one of claims 53-68 in an amount effective to treat said
disease.
[00299]     B82. A method of treating a disease comprising administering a serpin conjugate
according to any one of paragraphs B69-B80 in an amount effective to treat said disease.
[00300]     B83. A kit comprising a pharmaceutical composition comprising i) a therapeutic
protein conjugate according to any one of paragraphs B53-B68; and ii) a pharmaceutically
acceptable excipient; packaged in a container with a label that describes use of the
pharmaceutical composition in a method of treating a disease.
[00301]     B84. A kit comprising a pharmaceutical composition comprising i) a serpin
conjugate according to any one of paragraphs B69-B80; and ii) a pharmaceutically acceptable
excipient; packaged in a container with a label that describes use of the pharmaceutical
composition in a method of treating a disease.
[00302]     B85. The kit according to any one of paragraphs B83 to B84 wherein the
pharmaceutical composition is packaged in a unit dose form.
The present disclosure also provides the following exemplary embodiments:
[00303]     Cl. A method of preparing a therapeutic protein conjugate comprising the steps
of:
[00304]     contacting a therapeutic protein comprising a single, accessible and oxidizable
sulfhydryl group with a thiol reductant under conditions that allow the reduction of the
sulfhydryl group, and
                                              -56-

[00305]      contacting a water-soluble polymer with the therapeutic protein under conditions
that allow conjugation of the water-soluble polymer to the reduced sulfhydryl group.
[00306]      CIA. The method according to paragraph C1 wherein the therapeutic protein is
selected from the group consisting of alpha-i proteinase inhibitor (AiPI), antithrombin III,
alpha-I -antichymotrypsin, ovalbumin, plasminogen-activator inhibitor, neuroserpin, CI
Inhibitor, nexin, alpha-2-antiplasmin, heparin cofactor II, alphal-antichymotrypsin, alphal
microglobulin, albumin, alcoholdehydrogenase, biliverdin reductase, buturylcholinesterase,
complement C5a, cortisol-binding protein, creatine kinase, Factor V (FV), Factor VII (FVII),
ferritin, heparin cofactor, interleukin 2, protein C inhibitor, tissue factor and vitronectin or a
biologically active fragment, derivative or variant thereof.
[00307]      CiB. The method according to any one of paragraphs Cl-CiA wherein the thiol
reductant is selected from the group consisting of Tris[2-carboxyethyl] phosphine
hydrochloride (TCEP), dithiothreitol (DTT), DTE, sodium borohydride (NaBH4), and
sodium cyanoborohydride (NaCNBH3).
[00308]      CiC. The method according to any one of paragraphs Ci-CiB wherein the water
soluble polymer is selected from the group consisting of polyethylene glycol (PEG),
branched PEG, PolyPEG@ (Warwick Effect Polymers; Coventry, UK), polysialic acid (PSA),
starch, hydroxylethyl starch (HES), hydroxyalkyl starch (HAS), carbohydrate,
polysaccharides, pullulane, chitosan, hyaluronic acid, chondroitin sulfate, dermatan sulfate,
dextran, carboxymethyl-dextran, polyalkylene oxide (PAO), polyalkylene glycol (PAG),
polypropylene glycol (PPG), polyoxazoline, polyacryloylmorpholine, polyvinyl alcohol
(PVA), polycarboxylate, polyvinylpyrrolidone, polyphosphazene, polyoxazoline,
polyethylene-co-maleic acid anhydride, polystyrene-co-maleic acid anhydride, poly(1
hydroxymethylethylene hydroxymethylformal) (PHF), 2-methacryloyloxy-2'
ethyltrimethylammoniumphosphate (MPC), and functional derivatives thereof.
[00309]      C2. The method of paragraph CIB wherein the thiol reductant is TCEP.
[00310]      C2A. The method according to paragraph C2 wherein the therapeutic protein,
water-soluble polymer and thiol reductant are incubated together in a single vessel.
[00311]      C3. The method according to any one of paragraphs CI-C2 wherein the thiol
reductant concentration is between 1-100 molar excess relative to the therapeutic protein
concentration.
                                                -57-

[00312]     C4. The method according to any one of paragraphs C1-C3 wherein the thiol
reductant concentration is a 3-fold molar excess relative to the therapeutic protein
concentration.
[00313]     C5. The method according to any one of paragraphs C1-C4 wherein the water
soluble polymer is selected from the group consisting of a linear, branched or multi-arm
water soluble polymer.
[00314]     C6. The method according to paragraph C5 wherein the water-soluble polymer
has a molecular weight between 3,000 and 150,000 Da.
[00315]     C7. The method according to paragraph C6 wherein the water-soluble polymer is
linear and has a molecular weight of 20,000 Da.
[00316]     C8. The method according to any one of paragraphs C1-C7 wherein the water
soluble polymer is PEG.
[00317]     C9. The method according to any one of paragraphs C1-C7 wherein the water
soluble polymer is PSA.
[00318]     C1O. The method according to any one of paragraphs C1-C9 wherein the water
soluble polymer is derivatized with a sulfhydryl-specific agent selected from the group
consisting of maleimide (MAL), vinylsulfones, orthopyridyl-disulfides (OPSS) and
iodacetamides.
[00319]     CI1.  The method according to paragraph C8 wherein the sulfhydryl-specific
agent is MAL.
[00320]     C12. The method according to paragraph C1I wherein the water-soluble polymer
derivative is MAL-PEG.
[00321]     C13. The method according to paragraph C1I wherein the water-soluble polymer
derivative is MAL-PSA.
[00322]     C14. The method according to any one of paragraphs C1-C13 wherein the
therapeutic protein conjugate retains at least 20% biological activity relative to native
therapeutic protein.
[00323]     C15. The method according to paragraph C14 wherein the therapeutic protein
conjugate retains at least 60% biological activity relative to native therapeutic protein.
                                               -58-

[00324]     C16. The method according to any one of paragraphs C1-C15 wherein the
therapeutic protein conjugate has an increased half-life relative to native therapeutic protein.
[00325]     C17. The method according to paragraph C16 wherein the therapeutic protein
conjugate has at least a 2-fold increase in half-life relative to native therapeutic protein.
[00326]     C18.The method according to any one paragraphs C1-C17 wherein the therapeutic
protein conjugate comprises a single water-soluble polymer.
[00327]     C19. The method according to paragraph C18 wherein at least 20% of the
therapeutic protein conjugate comprises a single water-soluble polymer.
[00328]     C20. The method according to any one paragraphs C1-C19 wherein the single,
accessible and oxidizable sulfhydryl group is a sulfhydryl group on a cysteine residue.
[00329]     C21. The method according to paragraph C20 wherein the cysteine residue is
present in the native amino acid sequence of the therapeutic protein.
[00330]     C22. The method according to paragraph C21 wherein the therapeutic protein is
purified from human plasma.
[00331]     C23. The method according to paragraph C22 wherein the therapeutic protein is
naturally-glycosylated AlPI.
[00332]     C24. The method according to paragraph C21 wherein the therapeutic protein is
produced recombinantly in a host cell.
[00333]     C25. The method according to paragraph C24 wherein the host cell is selected
from the group consisting of a yeast cell, a mammalian cell, an insect cell, and a bacterial
cell.
[00334]     C26. The method according to paragraph C25 wherein a naturally-glycosylated
therapeutic protein is produced by the mammalian cell.
[00335]     C27. The method according to paragraph C26 wherein a naturally-glycosylated
AlPI is produced by the mammalian cell.
[00336]     C28. The method according to paragraph C25 wherein the therapeutic protein is
produced by the bacterial cell.
[00337]     C29. The method according to paragraph C28 wherein the therapeutic protein is
glycosylated in vitro following purification from the bacterial cell.
                                               -59-

[00338]     C30. The method of paragraph C29 wherein AlPI is glycosylated in vitro
following purification from the bacterial cell.
[00339]     C3 1. The method according to paragraph C20 wherein the native amino acid
sequence of the therapeutic protein is modified to comprise single, accessible and oxidizable
sulfhydryl group on the cysteine residue.
[00340]     C32. The method according to paragraph C31 wherein one or more cysteine
residues have been inserted, deleted or substituted in the native amino acid sequence of the
therapeutic protein.
[00341]     C33. The method according to paragraph C32 wherein the therapeutic protein is
produced recombinantly in a host cell.
[00342]     C34. The method according to paragraph C33 wherein the host cell is selected
from the group consisting of a yeast cell, a mammalian cell, an insect cell, and a bacterial
cell.
[00343]     C35. The method according to paragraph C34 wherein a naturally-glycosylated
therapeutic protein is produced by the mammalian cell.
[00344]     C36. The method according to paragraph C34 wherein the therapeutic protein is
produced by the bacterial cell.
[00345]     C37. The method according to paragraph C36 wherein the therapeutic protein is
glycosylated in vitro following purification from the bacterial cell.
[00346]     C38. The method according to any one of paragraphs C1-C37 further comprising
the step of purifying the therapeutic protein conjugate.
[00347]     C39. The method according to paragraph C38 wherein the therapeutic protein
conjugate is purified using a technique selected from the group consisting of ion-exchange
chromatography, hydrophobic interaction chromatography, size exclusion chromatography
and affinity chromatography or combinations thereof.
[00348]     C40. A therapeutic protein conjugate produced by the method according to any
one of paragraphs C1-C39.
The present disclosure also provides the following exemplary embodiments:
[00349]     D1. A method of preparing a glycosylated serpin conjugate comprising contacting
a water-soluble polymer with a glycosylated serpin under conditions that allow conjugation;
                                              - 60 -

[00350]      said glycosylated serpin conjugate retaining at least 20% biological activity
relative to native glycosylated serpin; and
[00351]      said glycosylated serpin conjugate having an increased half-life relative to native
glycosylated serpin.
[00352]      DIA. The method according to paragraph D1 wherein the glycosylated serpin is
selected from the group consisting of: AIPI (alpha-i proteinase inhibitor), or A1AT (alpha
1-antitrypsin), ATR (alpha- 1-antitrypsin-related protein), AACT or ACT (alpha-I
antichymotrypsin), P14 (proteinase inhibitor 4), PCI or PROCI (protein C inhibitor), CBG,
(corticosteroid-binding globulin), TBG (thyroxine-binding globulin), AGT
(angiotensinogen), centerin, PZI (protein Z-dependent protease inhibitor), P12 (proteinase
inhibitor 2), PAI2 or PLANH2 (plasminogen activator inhibitor-2), SCCA1 (squamous cell
carcinoma antigen 1), SCCA2 (squamous cell carcinoma antigen 2), P15 (proteinase inhibitor
5), P16 (proteinase inhibitor 6), megsin, P18 (proteinase inhibitor 8), P19 (proteinase inhibitor
9), PRl0 (proteinase inhibitor 10), epipin, yukopin, P113 (proteinase inhibitor 13), PI8LI
(proteinase inhibitor 8-like 1), AT3 or ATIII (antithrombin-III), HC-II or HCF2 (heparin
cofactor II), PAIl or PLANHI (plasminogen activator inhibitor-1), PNI (proteinase nexin I),
PEDF, (pigment epithelium-derived factor), PLI (plasmin inhibitor), Ci IN or CI INH
(plasma proteinase CI inhibitor), CBPI (collagen-binding protein 1), CBP2 (collagen
binding protein 2), PIi2 (proteinase inhibitor 12), and PIi4 (proteinase inhibitor 14).
[00353]      DiB. The method according to any one of paragraphs Di-DiA wherein the
water-soluble polymer is selected from the group consisting of polyethylene glycol (PEG),
branched PEG, PolyPEG@ (Warwick Effect Polymers; Coventry, UK), polysialic acid (PSA),
starch, hydroxylethyl starch (HES), hydroxyalkyl starch (HAS), carbohydrate,
polysaccharides, pullulane, chitosan, hyaluronic acid, chondroitin sulfate, dermatan sulfate,
dextran, carboxymethyl-dextran, polyalkylene oxide (PAO), polyalkylene glycol (PAG),
polypropylene glycol (PPG), polyoxazoline, polyacryloylmorpholine, polyvinyl alcohol
(PVA), polycarboxylate, polyvinylpyrrolidone, polyphosphazene, polyoxazoline,
polyethylene-co-maleic acid anhydride, polystyrene-co-maleic acid anhydride, poly(1
hydroxymethylethylene hydroxymethylformal) (PHF), 2-methacryloyloxy-2'
ethyltrimethylammoniumphosphate (MPC), and functional derivatives thereof.
[00354]      DIC. The method according to paragraph DIB wherein the water soluble
polymer derivative is selected from the group consisting of N-hydroxysuccinimide ester-PEG
                                              - 61 -

(NHS-PEG), PEG carbonate, PEG aldehydes, aminooxy-PEG, PEG hydrazide (PEG-Hz),
PEG hydrazine, PEG maleimide (MAL-PEG), PEG thiol (PEG-SH), Amino PEG (PEG
NH2), Carboxyl PEG (PEG-COOH), Hydroxyl PEG (PEG-OH), PEG epoxide, oxidized
PSA, aminooxy-PSA, PSA hydrazide, PSA hydrazine, PEG vinylsulfone, PEG orthpyridyl
disulfide (OPSS), PEG ioacetamide, PEG benzotriazole, PSA-SH, MAL-PSA. and PSA
NH2.
[00355]     DID. The method according to any one of paragraphs D1-D2A wherein the water
soluble polymer or functional derivative thereof has a molecular weight between 3,000 and
150,000 Da.
[00356]     D2. The method according to paragraph D1 wherein the glycosylated serpin
conjugate retains at least 60% biological activity relative to native glycosylated serpin.
[00357]     D3. The method according to any one of paragraphs D1 -D2 wherein the
glycosylated serpin conjugate has at least a 2-fold increase in half-life relative to native
glycosylated serpin.
[00358]     D4. The method according to any one paragraphs D1-D3 wherein the
glycosylated serpin conjugate comprises a single water-soluble polymer.
[00359]     D5. The method according to paragraph D4 wherein at least 20% of the
glycosylated serpin conjugate comprises a single water-soluble polymer.
[00360]     D6. The method according to any one of paragraphs D1-D5 wherein the
glycosylated serpin comprises a single, accessible and oxidizable sulfhydryl group.
[00361]     D7. The method according to paragraph D6 wherein the single, accessible and
oxidizable sulfhydryl group is a sulfhydryl group on a cysteine residue.
[00362]     D8. The method according to paragraph D7 further comprising contacting the
glycosylated serpin with a single, accessible and oxidizable sulfhydryl group with a thiol
reductant under conditions that allow the reduction of the sulfhydryl group.
[00363]     D9. The method according to paragraph D8 wherein the thiol reductant is selected
from the group consisting of Tris[2-carboxyethyl] phosphine hydrochloride (TCEP),
dithiothreitol (DTT), DTE, sodium borohydride (NaBH4), and sodium cyanoborohydride
(NaCNBH3).
[00364]     D1O. The method according to paragraph D9 wherein the thiol reductant is TCEP.
                                              - 62 -

[00365]      D1I. The method according to any one of paragraphs D8-D10 wherein the
therapeutic protein, water-soluble polymer and thiol reductant are incubated together in a
single vessel.
[00366]      D12. The method according to any one of paragraphs D8-D1 1 wherein the thiol
reductant concentration is between 1-100-fold molar excess relative to the glycosylated
serpin concentration.
[00367]      D13. The method according to any one of paragraph D8-D12 wherein the thiol
reductant concentration is a 3-fold molar excess relative to the glycosylated serpin
concentration.
[00368]      D14. The method according to any one of paragraphs D8-D13 wherein the
cysteine residue is present in the native amino acid sequence of the glycosylated serpin.
[00369]      D15. The method according to paragraph D14 wherein the glycosylated serpin is
purified from human plasma.
[00370]      D16. The method according to paragraph D15 wherein the glycosylated serpin is
AlPI.
[00371]      D17. The method according to paragraph D14 wherein the serpin is produced
recombinantly in a host cell.
[00372]      D18. The method according to paragraph D17 wherein the host cell is selected
from the group consisting of a yeast cell, a mammalian cell, an insect cell, and a bacterial
cell.
[00373]      D19. The method according to paragraph D18 wherein a naturally-glycosylated
serpin is produced by the mammalian cell.
[00374]      D20. The method according to paragraph D19 wherein the naturally-glycosylated
serpin is AlPI.
[00375]      D2 1. The method according to paragraph D18 wherein the serpin is produced by
a bacterial cell.
[00376]      D22. The method according to paragraph D21 wherein the serpin is glycosylated
in vitro following purification from the bacterial cell.
[00377]      D23. The method of paragraph D22 wherein the serpin is AlPI.
                                              - 63 -

[00378]     D24. The method according to any one of paragraphs D6-D23 wherein the water
soluble polymer is derivatized with a sulfhydryl-specific agent selected from the group
consisting of maleimide (MAL), vinylsulfones, orthopyridyl-disulfides (OPSS) and
iodacetamides.
[00379]     D25. The method according to paragraph D24 wherein the sulfhydryl-specific
agent is MAL.
[00380]     D26. The method according to paragraph D25 wherein the water-soluble polymer
derivative is MAL-PEG.
[00381]     D27. The method according to paragraph D25 wherein the water-soluble polymer
derivative is MAL-PSA.
[00382]     D28. The method according to paragraph D24 wherein the water-soluble polymer
derivative is selected from the group of linear, branched and multi-arm water soluble polymer
derivative.
[00383]     D29. A method of preparing a glycosylated AlPI conjugate comprising:
[00384]     contacting a glycosylated A1PI protein comprising a single, accessible and
oxidizable sulfhydryl group with a solution comprising TCEP under conditions that allow the
reduction of the sulfhydryl group, and
[00385]     contacting a water-soluble polymer or functional derivative thereof to the
glycosylated AlPI under conditions that allow conjugation;
[00386]     said glycosylated A1PI conjugate retaining at least 20% biological activity relative
to native glycosylated AlPI;
[00387]     and said glycosylated A1PI conjugate having an increased half-life relative to
native glycosylated AlPI; and
[00388]     wherein at least 70% of the AlPI is mono-PEGylated.
[00389]     D30. The method according to paragraph D29 wherein the water-soluble polymer
derivative is MAL-PEG.
[00390]     D3 1. The method according to paragraph D29 wherein the water-soluble polymer
derivative is MAL-PSA.
                                              - 64 -

[00391]     D32. The method according to any one of paragraphs D29-D31 wherein the
therapeutic protein, water-soluble polymer and thiol reductant are incubated together in a
single vessel.
[00392]     D33. The method according to any one of paragraphs D1-D5 wherein the water
soluble polymer is derivatized with a lysine-specific agent selected from the group consisting
of N-hydroxysuccinimide ester (NHS).
[00393]     D34. The method according to paragraph D33 wherein the water-soluble polymer
derivative is PEG-NHS.
[00394]     D35. The method according to paragraph D33 wherein the water-soluble polymer
derivative is PSA-NHS.
[00395]     D36. The method according to any one of paragraphs D1-D5 wherein the water
soluble polymer is derivatized with an aminooxy linker.
[00396]     D37. The method according to paragraph D36 wherein the water-soluble polymer
derivative is aminooxy-PEG.
[00397]     D38. The method according to paragraph D36 wherein the water-soluble polymer
derivative is aminooxy-PSA.
[00398]     D39. The method according to any one of paragraphs D36-D38 wherein a
carbohydrate moiety of the glycosylated serpin is oxidized by incubation with a buffer
comprising an oxidizing agent selected from the group consisting of sodium periodate
(NaJO4), lead tetraacetate (Pb(OAc)4 ) and potassium perruthenate (KRuO4) prior to
contacting with the water-soluble polymer or functional derivative thereof;
[00399]     wherein an oxime linkage is formed between the oxidized carbohydrate moiety
and an active aminooxy group on the aminooxy linker-derivatized water-soluble polymer,
thereby forming the glycosylated serpin conjugate.
[00400]     D40. The method according to paragraph D39 wherein the oxidizing agent is
sodium periodate (NaJO4).
[00401]     D41. The method according to any one of paragraphs D36-D40 wherein the
aminooxy linker-derivatized water-soluble polymer is aminooxy-PEG.
[00402]     D42. The method according to any one of paragraphs D36-D40 wherein the
aminooxy linker-derivatized water-soluble polymer is aminooxy-PSA.
                                             - 65 -

[00403]     D43. The method according to paragraph D42 wherein the aminooxy-PSA is
prepared by reacting an activated aminooxy linker with oxidized PSA;
[00404]     wherein the aminooxy linker is selected from the group consisting of:
[00405]     a) a 3-oxa-pentane-1,5-dioxyamine linker of the formula:
[00406]     b) a 3,6,9-trioxa-undecane-1,11-dioxyamine linker of the formula:
                    H 2N     0 ~    O
and
[00407]     c) a 3,6,9,12,15-penatoxa-heptadecane- 1,17-dioxyamine linker of the formula:
         H2N               O                    O                                  NH2
[00408]     wherein the PSA is oxidized by incubation with a oxidizing agent to form a
terminal aldehyde group at the non-reducing end of the PSA.
[00409]     D44. The method according to any one of paragraphs D39-D43 wherein
contacting the oxidized carbohydrate moiety with the activated water soluble polymer occurs
in a buffer comprising a nucleophilic catalyst selected from the group consisting of aniline, o
amino benzoic acid, m-amino benzoic acid, p-amino benzoic acid, sulfanilic acid, o
aminobenzamide, o-toluidine, m-toluidine, p-toluidine, o-anisidine, m-anisidine, p-anisidine
and derivatives thereof.
[00410]     D45. The method according to any one of paragraphs D39-D44 further
comprising the step of reducing the oxime linkage by incubating the therapeutic protein in a
buffer comprising a reducing compound selected from the group consisting of sodium
cyanoborohydride (NaCNBH3) and ascorbic acid (vitamin C).
[00411]     D46. A glycosylated serpin conjugate produced by the method according to any
one of paragraphs D1-D45.
[00412]     D47. A glycosylated serpin conjugate comprising:
[00413]     a) a glycosylated serpin protein; and
                                              - 66 -

[00414]     b) at least one water-soluble polymer bound to said glycosylated serpin protein of
(a), thereby forming a glycosylated serpin conjugate;
[00415]      said glycosylated serpin conjugate retaining at least 60% biological activity
relative to native glycosylated serpin; and
[00416]      said glycosylated serpin conjugate having an increased half-life relative to native
glycosylated serpin.
[00417]      D48. The glycosylated serpin conjugate of paragraph D47 wherein wherein the
glycosylated serpin is selected from the group consisting of: AIPI (alpha-i proteinase
inhibitor), or A1AT (alpha- 1-antitrypsin), ATR (alpha- 1-antitrypsin-related protein), AACT
or ACT (alpha- 1-antichymotrypsin), P14 (proteinase inhibitor 4), PCI or PROCI (protein C
inhibitor), CBG, (corticosteroid-binding globulin), TBG (thyroxine-binding globulin), AGT
(angiotensinogen), centerin, PZI (protein Z-dependent protease inhibitor), P12 (proteinase
inhibitor 2), PAI2 or PLANH2 (plasminogen activator inhibitor-2), SCCA1 (squamous cell
carcinoma antigen 1), SCCA2 (squamous cell carcinoma antigen 2), P15 (proteinase inhibitor
5), P16 (proteinase inhibitor 6), megsin, P18 (proteinase inhibitor 8), P19 (proteinase inhibitor
9), PRl0 (proteinase inhibitor 10), epipin, yukopin, P113 (proteinase inhibitor 13), PI8LI
(proteinase inhibitor 8-like 1), AT3 or ATIII (antithrombin-III), HC-II or HCF2 (heparin
cofactor II), PAIl or PLANHI (plasminogen activator inhibitor-1), PNI (proteinase nexin I),
PEDF, (pigment epithelium-derived factor), PLI (plasmin inhibitor), Ci IN or CI INH
(plasma proteinase CI inhibitor), CBPI (collagen-binding protein 1), CBP2 (collagen
binding protein 2), PIi2 (proteinase inhibitor 12), and PIi4 (proteinase inhibitor 14).
[00418]      D49. The glycosylated serpin conjugate according to any one of paragraphs D48
D49 wherein the water-soluble polymer is selected from the group consisting of polyethylene
glycol (PEG), branched PEG, PolyPEG@ (Warwick Effect Polymers; Coventry, UK),
polysialic acid (PSA), starch, hydroxylethyl starch (HES), hydroxyalkyl starch (HAS),
carbohydrate, polysaccharides, pullulane, chitosan, hyaluronic acid, chondroitin sulfate,
dermatan sulfate, dextran, carboxymethyl-dextran, polyalkylene oxide (PAO), polyalkylene
glycol (PAG), polypropylene glycol (PPG), polyoxazoline, polyacryloylmorpholine,
polyvinyl alcohol (PVA), polycarboxylate, polyvinylpyrrolidone, polyphosphazene,
polyoxazoline, polyethylene-co-maleic acid anhydride, polystyrene-co-maleic acid
anhydride, poly(1-hydroxymethylethylene hydroxymethylformal) (PHF), 2-methacryloyloxy
2'-ethyltrimethylammoniumphosphate (MPC), and functional derivative thereof.
                                              - 67 -

[00419]     D50. The glycosylated serpin conjugate of paragraph D49 the water soluble
polymer derivative is selected from the group consisting of N-hydroxysuccinimide ester-PEG
(NHS-PEG), PEG carbonate, PEG aldehydes, aminooxy-PEG, PEG hydrazide (PEG-Hz),
PEG hydrazine, PEG maleimide (MAL-PEG), PEG thiol (PEG-SH), Amino PEG (PEG
NH2), Carboxyl PEG (PEG-COOH), Hydroxyl PEG (PEG-OH), PEG epoxide, oxidized
PSA, aminooxy-PSA, PSA hydrazide, PSA hydrazine, PEG vinylsulfone, PEG orthpyridyl
disulfide (OPSS), PEG ioacetamide, PEG benzotriazole, PSA-SH, MAL-PSA. and PSA
NH2.
[00420]     D51. The glycosylated serpin conjugate according to any one of paragraphs D48
D50 wherein the water soluble polymer or functional derivative thereof has a molecular
weight between 3,000 and 150,000 Da.
[00421]     D52. The glycosylated serpin conjugate according to any one of paragraphs D48
D51 wherein the water soluble polymer or functional derivative thereof is selected from the
group of linear, branched and multi-arm water soluble polymer or functional derivative
thereof.
[00422]     D53. The glycosylated serpin conjugate of paragraph D49 wherein the water
soluble polymer is derivatized with a sulfhydryl-specific agent selected from the group
consisting of maleimide (MAL), vinylsulfones, orthopyridyl-disulfides (OPSS) and
iodacetamides.
[00423]     D54. The glycosylated serpin conjugate of paragraph D53 wherein the sulfhydryl
specific agent is MAL.
[00424]     D55. The glycosylated serpin conjugate of paragraph D54 wherein the water
soluble polymer derivative is MAL-PEG.
[00425]     D56. The glycosylated serpin conjugate of paragraph D54 wherein the water
soluble polymer derivative is MAL-PSA.
[00426]     D57. The glycosylated serpin conjugate of paragraph D49 wherein the water
soluble polymer is derivatized with a lysine-specific agent selected from the group consisting
of N-hydroxysuccinimide ester (NHS).
[00427]     D58. The glycosylated serpin conjugate of paragraph D57 wherein the lysine
specific agent is NHS.
                                             - 68 -

[00428]    D59. The glycosylated serpin conjugate of paragraph D57 wherein the water
soluble polymer derivative is PEG-NHS.
[00429]    D60. The glycosylated serpin conjugate of paragraph D57 wherein the water
soluble polymer derivative is PSA-NHS.
[00430]    D61. The glycosylated serpin conjugate of paragraph D49 wherein the water
soluble polymer is derivatized with an aminooxy linker.
[00431]    D62. The glycosylated serpin conjugate of paragraph D61wherein the water
soluble polymer derivative is aminooxy-PEG.
[00432]    D63. The glycosylated serpin conjugate of paragraph D61 wherein the water
soluble polymer derivative is aminooxy-PSA.
[00433]    D64. The glycosylated serpin conjugate according to any one of paragraphs D61
D63 wherein the aminooxy linker is selected from the group consisting of:
[00434]    a) a 3-oxa-pentane-1,5-dioxyamine linker of the formula:
[00435]    b) a 3,6,9-trioxa-undecane-1,11-dioxyamine linker of the formula:
                                           0                           N 2
and
[00436]    c) a 3,6,9,12,15-penatoxa-heptadecane- 1,17-dioxyamine linker of the formula:
         H N              O                     O                 O              N H2
[00437]    D65. The glycosylated serpin conjugate according to any one of paragraphs D46
D65 wherein the glycosylated serpin is AlPI.
[00438]    D66. A method of treating a disease associated with a serpin comprising
administering a glycosylated serpin conjugate according to any one of paragraphs D46-D65
in an amount effective to treat said disease.
[00439]    D67. The method according to paragraph D66 wherein the glycosylated serpin is
AlPI.
                                              - 69 -

[00440]     D68. The method according to D67 wherein the water soluble polymer is MAL
PEG.
[00441]     D69. The method according to any one of paragraphs D67-D68 wherein the
disease is emphysema.
[00442]     D70. A kit comprising a pharmaceutical composition comprising i) a glycosylated
serpin conjugate according to any one of paragraphs D46-D65; and ii) a pharmaceutically
acceptable excipient; packaged in a container with a label that describes use of the
pharmaceutical composition in a method of treating a disease associated with the serpin.
[00443]     D7 1. The kit according to paragraph D70 wherein the pharmaceutical
composition is packaged in a unit dose form.
[00444]     D72. A kit comprising a first container comprising a glycosylated serpin
conjugate according to one of paragraphs D46-D65, and a second container comprising a
physiologically acceptable reconstitution solution for said composition in the first container,
wherein said kit is packaged with a label that describes use of the pharmaceutical
composition in a method of treating a disease associated with the serpin.
[00445]     D73. The kit according to paragraph D72 wherein the pharmaceutical composition
is packaged in a unit dose form.
The present disclosure also provides the following exemplary embodiments:
[00446]     El. A method of preparing a glycosylated therapeutic protein conjugate
comprising contacting a water soluble polymer to a glycosylated therapeutic protein under
conditions that allow conjugation, said glycosylated therapeutic protein conjugate retaining at
least 20% biological activity relative to native glycosylated therapeutic protein, and said
glycosylated therapeutic protein conjugate having an increased half-life relative to native
glycosylated therapeutic protein.
[00447]     E2. The method of paragraph El wherein the glycosylated therapeutic protein
conjugate retains at least 30% biological activity relative to native glycosylated therapeutic
protein.
[00448]     E2A. The method of paragraph El wherein the glycosylated therapeutic protein is
glycosylated in vivo prior to purification.
[00449]     E3. The method of paragraph El wherein the glycosylated therapeutic protein is
glycosylated in vitro following purification.
                                               - 70 -

[00450]     E4. The method of any one of paragraphs El-E3 wherein the water soluble
polymer is selected from the group consisting of polyethylene glycol (PEG), branched PEG,
PolyPEG@ (Warwick Effect Polymers; Coventry, UK), polysialic acid (PSA), starch,
hydroxylethyl starch (HES), hydroxyalkyl starch (HAS), carbohydrate, polysaccharides,
pullulane, chitosan, hyaluronic acid, chondroitin sulfate, dermatan sulfate, dextran,
carboxymethyl-dextran, polyalkylene oxide (PAO), polyalkylene glycol (PAG),
polypropylene glycol (PPG), polyoxazoline, polyacryloylmorpholine, polyvinyl alcohol
(PVA), polycarboxylate, polyvinylpyrrolidone, polyphosphazene, polyoxazoline,
polyethylene-co-maleic acid anhydride, polystyrene-co-maleic acid anhydride, poly(1
hydroxymethylethylene hydroxymethylformal) (PHF), 2-methacryloyloxy-2'
ethyltrimethylammoniumphosphate (MPC), and functional derivatives thereof.
[00451]     E5. The method of paragraph El wherein the conjugation occurs in a
simultaneous reaction.
[00452]     E6. The method of any one of paragraphs El-E5 wherein the glycosylated
therapeutic protein is selected from the group consisting of plasma-derived alpha-I proteinase
inhibitor (A1PI), recombinant AlPI, Antithrombin III, Alpha-1-antichymotrypsin,
Ovalbumin, Plasminogen-activator inhibitor, Neuroserpin, Cl-Inhibitor, nexin, alpha-2
antiplasmin, Heparin cofactor II, alpha 1-antichymotrypsin, alpha 1-microglobulin, albumin,
alcoholdehydrogenase, biliverdin reductase, buturylcholinesterase, complement C5a, cortisol
binding protein, creatine kinase, factor V, factor VII, ferritin, heparin cofactor, interleukin 2,
protein C inhibitor, tissue factor and vitronectin or a biologically active fragment, derivative
or variant thereof.
[00453]     E7. The method of any one of paragraphs El-E6 wherein the glycosylated
therapeutic protein conjugate retains at least 40 % biological activity relative to native
glycosylated therapeutic protein.
[00454]     E8. The method of paragraph E7 wherein the glycosylated therapeutic protein
conjugate retains at least 50 % biological activity relative to native glycosylated therapeutic
protein.
[00455]     E9. The method of paragraph E8 wherein the glycosylated therapeutic protein
conjugate retains at least 60 % biological activity relative to native glycosylated therapeutic
protein.
                                               -71-

[00456]     ElO. The method of paragraph E8 wherein the glycosylated therapeutic protein
conjugate retains at least 70 % biological activity relative to native glycosylated therapeutic
protein.
[00457]     El1.  The method of paragraph E8 wherein the glycosylated therapeutic protein
conjugate retains at least 80 % biological activity relative to native glycosylated therapeutic
protein.
[00458]     E12. The method of paragraph E8 wherein the glycosylated therapeutic protein
conjugate retains at least 90 % biological activity relative to native glycosylated therapeutic
protein.
[00459]     E12A. The method of any one of paragraphs El-E12 wherein the half-life of the
glycosylated therapeutic protein conjugate is at least 2 times higher than the native
glycosylated therapeutic protein.
[00460]     E12B.       The method of paragraph E12A wherein the half-life of the
glycosylated therapeutic protein conjugate is 8 times higher than the native glycosylated
therapeutic protein.
[00461]     E12C. The method of any one of paragraphs El-E12B wherein the water soluble
polymer is selected from the group of linear, branched or multi-arm water soluble polymer.
[00462]     E12D. The method of any one of paragraphs El-E12B wherein the water soluble
polymer is PEG.
[00463]     E12E. The method of paragraph E12D wherein the PEG is selected from the
group consisting of N-hydroxysuccinimide ester-PEG (NHS-PEG), PEG carbonate, PEG
aldehydes, aminooxy-PEG, PEG hydrazide (PEG-Hz), PEG hydrazine, PEG maleimide
(MAL-PEG), PEG thiol (PEG-SH), Amino PEG (PEG -NH2), carboxyl PEG (PEG-COOH),
Hydroxyl PEG (PEG-OH) and PEG epoxide.
[00464]     E13. The method according to paragraph E12E wherein the PEG is between
3,000 and 80,000 Da.
[00465]     E13A. The method of paragraph E4 wherein the water soluble polymer is PSA.
[00466]     E14. The method of paragraph E13A wherein the PSA is selected from the group
consisting of oxidized PSA, aminooxy-PSA, PSA hydrazide, PSA-SH, MAL-PSA. and PSA
NH2.
                                              - 72 -

[00467]     E15. The method of paragraph E14 wherein the PSA is between 3,000 and 80,000
Da.
[00468]     E15A. The method of any one of paragraphs El-E15 wherein the glycosylated
therapeutic protein is purified from human plasma.
[00469]     E16. The method of any one of paragraphs El-E15 wherein the glycosylated
therapeutic protein is produced recombinantly in a host cell.
[00470]     E17. The method of paragraph E16 wherein the host cell is an animal cell.
[00471]     E18. The method of paragraph E17 wherein the animal cell is a mammalian cell.
[00472]     E19. The method of paragraph E18 wherein the mammalian cell is selected from
the group consisting of CHO, COS, HEK 293, BHK, SK-Hep, and HepG2.
[00473]     E20. The method of paragraph E3 wherein the glycosylated therapeutic protein is
produced recombinantly in a bacterial cell.
[00474]     E21. The method of paragraph E20 wherein the bacterial cell is selected from the
group consisting of E. coli.
[00475]     E22. The method of paragraph E12 wherein the water soluble polymer is NHS
PEG.
[00476]     E23. The method of paragraph E12 wherein the water soluble polymer is
aminooxy-PEG.
[00477]     E24. The method of paragraph E23 wherein a carbohydrate moiety of the
therapeutic protein is oxidized by incubation with a buffer comprising an oxidizing agent
selected from the group consisting of sodium periodate (NaIO4), lead tetraacetate (Pb(OAc)4
) and potassium perruthenate (KRuO4) prior to conjugation; and wherein an oxime linkage is
formed between the oxidized carbohydrate moiety and an active aminooxy group on the
aminooxy-PEG thereby forming the therapeutic protein conjugate.
[00478]     E25. The method of paragraph E24 which is a simultaneous reaction.
[00479]     E26. The method according to any one of paragraphs E24 or E25 wherein the
oxidizing agent is sodium periodate (NaIO4).
[00480]     E27. The method according to paragraph E14 wherein the water soluble polymer
is aminooxy-PSA.
                                             -73-

[00481]     E28. The method of paragraph E27 wherein a carbohydrate moiety of the
therapeutic protein is oxidized by incubation with a buffer comprising an oxidizing agent
selected from the group consisting of sodium periodate (NaIO4), lead tetraacetate (Pb(OAc)4
) and potassium perruthenate (KRuO4) prior to conjugation; and wherein an oxime linkage is
formed between the oxidized carbohydrate moiety and an active aminooxy group on the
aminooxy-PSA thereby forming the therapeutic protein conjugate.
[00482]     E29. The method of paragraph E28 which is a simultaneous reaction.
[00483]     E30. The method according to any one of paragraphs E28 or E29 wherein the
oxidizing agent is sodium periodate (NaIO4).
[00484]     E30A. The method according to paragraph E27 wherein the aminooxy-PSA is
prepared by reacting an activated aminooxy linker with oxidized PSA;
[00485]     wherein the aminooxy linker is selected from the group consisting of:
[00486]     a) a 3-oxa-pentane-1,5-dioxyamine linker of the formula:
                                   H0      2
[00487]     b) a 3,6,9-trioxa-undecane-1,11-dioxyamine linker of the formula:
                              H2N,,-,-,-0
                                     0                                 -,H
and
[00488]     c) a 3,6,9,12,15-penatoxa-heptadecane- 1,17-dioxyamine linker of the formula:
         H2                                                                       N H2
[00489]     wherein the PSA is oxidized by incubation with a oxidizing agent to form a
terminal aldehyde group at the non-reducing end of the PSA.
[00490]     E30B. The method according to paragraph E30A wherein the aminooxy linker is
3-oxa-pentane- 1,5-dioxyamine.
[00491]     E30C. The method according to paragraph E28 wherein the oxidizing agent is
NaIO4.
                                              - 74 -

[00492]     E3 1. The method according to any one of paragraph E24-E26 or E28-E30C
wherein the contacting of the oxidized carbohydrate moiety with the activated water soluble
polymer occurs in a buffer comprising a nucleophilic catalyst selected from the group
consisting of aniline and aniline derivatives.
[00493]     E32. The method according to any one of paragraphs E24-E26 or E28-E31 further
comprising the step of reducing the oxime linkage by incubating the therapeutic protein in a
buffer comprising a reducing compound selected from the group consisting of sodium
cyanoborohydride (NaCNBH3) and ascorbic acid (vitamin C).
[00494]     E33. The method according to paragraph E32 wherein the reducing compound is
sodium cyanoborohydride (NaCNBH3).
[00495]     E34. The method according to paragraph E12 wherein the water soluble polymer
is MAL-PEG.
[00496]     E35. The method according to vE34 wherein a sulfhydryl (-SH) moiety of the
glycosylated therapeutic protein is reduced by incubation with a buffer comprising a
reducing agent selected from the group consisting of Tris[2-carboxyethyl] phosphine
hydrochloride (TCEP), DTT, DTE, NaBH4, and NaCNBH3.
[00497]     E36. The method according to any one of paragraph E35 or E36 wherein the
reducing agent is TCEP.
[00498]     E37. The method of paragraph E36 which is a simultaneous reaction.
[00499]     E38. The method according to any one of paragraphs E36 or E37 wherein the
TCEP concentration is between 1-100-fold molar excess relative to the therapeutic protein
concentration.
[00500]     E38. The method according to paragraph E37 wherein the glycosylated
therapeutic protein is AlPI.
[00501]     E39. The method according to paragraph E38 wherein the glycosylated AlPI
conjugate is mono-PEGylated.
[00502]     E40. The method according to paragraph E39 wherein at least 20, 30, 40 50, 60,
70, 80, or 90% of the AlPI is mono-PEGylated.
[00503]     E41. A method of preparing a glycosylated AlPI conjugate comprising contacting
a MAL-PEG to the glycosylated AlPI under conditions that allow conjugation, said
                                               - 75 -

glycosylated AlPI conjugate retaining at least 20% biological activity relative to native
glycosylated AlPI, and said glycosylated AlPI conjugate having an increased half-life
relative to native glycosylated AlPI, wherein the sulfhydryl (-SH) moiety at cysteine 232 of
the glycosylated AlPI is reduced by incubation with TCEP , and wherein at least 20% of the
AlPI is mono-PEGylated.
[00504]      E42. The method according to paragraph E41 wherein at least 30, 40, 50, 60, 70,
80 or 90% of the AlPI is mono-PEGylated.
[00505]      E43. The method according to any one of paragraphs El-E42 wherein the
therapeutic protein conjugate is purified following conjugation.
The present disclosure also provides the following exemplary embodiments:
[00506]      Fl. A glycosylated serpin conjugate produced by the method according to any
one of claims El-E46.
[00507]      F2. A glycosylated serpin conjugate comprising:
[00508]      (a) a glycosylated serpin; and
[00509]      (b) at least one water soluble polymer bound to the glycosylated serpin of (a), said
glycosylated serpin conjugate retaining at least 20% biological activity relative to native
glycosylated serpin, and said glycosylated serpin conjugate having an increased half-life
relative to native glycosylated serpin.
[00510]      F2A. The glycosylated serpin conjugate of paragraph F1 that is glycosylated in
vivo prior to purification.
[00511]      F3. The glycosylated serpin conjugate of paragraph F1 that is glycosylated in
vitro following purification.
[00512]      F4. The glycosylated serpin conjugate of paragraph F2 wherein the glycosylated
serpin conjugate serpin is selected from the group consisting of: AlPI (alpha-i proteinase
inhibitor), or A1AT (alpha- 1-antitrypsin), ATR (alpha- 1-antitrypsin-related protein), AACT
or ACT (alpha- 1-antichymotrypsin), P14 (proteinase inhibitor 4), PCI or PROCI (protein C
inhibitor), CBG, (corticosteroid-binding globulin), TBG (thyroxine-binding globulin), AGT
(angiotensinogen), centerin, PZI (protein Z-dependent protease inhibitor), P12 (proteinase
inhibitor 2), PAI2 or PLANH2 (plasminogen activator inhibitor-2), SCCA1 (squamous cell
carcinoma antigen 1), SCCA2 (squamous cell carcinoma antigen 2), P15 (proteinase inhibitor
5), P16 (proteinase inhibitor 6), megsin, P18 (proteinase inhibitor 8), P19 (proteinase inhibitor
                                                -76-

9), PRl0 (proteinase inhibitor 10), epipin, yukopin, P113 (proteinase inhibitor 13), PI8L1
(proteinase inhibitor 8-like 1), AT3 or ATIII (antithrombin-III), HC-II or HCF2 (heparin
cofactor II), PAIl or PLANHI (plasminogen activator inhibitor-1), PN1 (proteinase nexin I),
PEDF, (pigment epithelium-derived factor), PLI (plasmin inhibitor), Cl IN or Cl INH
(plasma proteinase C1 inhibitor), CBP1 (collagen-binding protein 1), CBP2 (collagen
binding protein 2), P112 (proteinase inhibitor 12), and P114 (proteinase inhibitor 14) or a
biologically active fragment, derivative or variant thereof.
[00513]     F5. The glycosylated serpin conjugate of paragraph F2 wherein the water soluble
polymer is selected from the group consisting of polyethylene glycol (PEG), branched PEG,
PolyPEG@ (Warwick Effect Polymers; Coventry, UK),polysialic acid (PSA), starch,
hydroxylethyl starch (HES), hydroxyalkyl starch (HAS), hydroxylethyl starch (HES),
carbohydrate, polysaccharides, pullulane, chitosan, hyaluronic acid, chondroitin sulfate,
dermatan sulfate, dextran, carboxymethyl-dextran, polyalkylene oxide (PAO), polyalkylene
glycol (PAG), polypropylene glycol (PPG), polyoxazoline, polyacryloylmorpholine,
polyvinyl alcohol (PVA), polycarboxylate, polyvinylpyrrolidone, polyphosphazene,
polyoxazoline, polyethylene-co-maleic acid anhydride, polystyrene-co-maleic acid
anhydride, poly(1-hydroxymethylethylene hydroxymethylformal) (PHF), 2-methacryloyloxy
2'-ethyltrimethylammoniumphosphate (MPC), and functional derivatives thereof.
[00514]     F8. The glycosylated serpin conjugate of paragraph F5 wherein the water soluble
polymer is approximately 20 kDa.
[00515]     F9. The glycosylated serpin conjugate of paragraph F2 wherein the serpin
conjugate retains at least 40 % biological activity relative to native glycosylated serpin.
[00516]     F1O. The glycosylated serpin conjugate of paragraph F9 wherein the glycosylated
serpin conjugate retains at least 50 % biological activity relative to native glycosylated serpin.
[00517]     Fl 1. The glycosylated serpin conjugate of paragraph F2 wherein the half-life of
the serpin conjugate is at least 1-100 times higher than the native glycosylated serpin.
[00518]     F12. The serpin conjugate of paragraph F 11 wherein the half-life of the serpin
conjugate is 3 times higher than the native glycosylated serpin.
[00519]     F13. The glycosylated serpin conjugate of paragraph F5 wherein the water
soluble polymer is PEG.
                                              - 77 -

[00520]     F14. The glycosylated serpin conjugate of paragraph F13 wherein the PEG is
selected from the group consisting of N-hydroxysuccinimide ester-PEG (NHS-PEG),
aminooxy-PEG, maleimide-PEG (MAL-PEG), PEG carbonate, PEG aldehydes, aminooxy
PEG, PEG hydrazide (PEG-Hz), PEG hydrazine, PEG thiol (PEG-SH), Amino PEG (PEG
NH2), Carboxyl PEG (PEG-COOH), Hydroxyl PEG (PEG-OH) and PEG epoxide.
[00521]     F15. The glycosylated serpin conjugate of paragraph F5 wherein the water
soluble polymer is PSA.
[00522]     F16. The serpin conjugate of paragraph F15 wherein the PSA is selected from the
group consisting of aminooxy-PSA.
[00523]     F17. The serpin conjugate of paragraph F2 wherein the serpin is purified from
human plasma.
[00524]     F18. The glycosylated serpin conjugate of paragraph F2 wherein the glycosylated
serpin is produced recombinantly in a host cell.
[00525]     F19. The glycosylated serpin conjugate of paragraph 18 wherein the host cell is
an animal cell.
[00526]     F20. The glycosylated serpin conjugate of paragraph F19 wherein the animal cell
is a mammalian cell.
[00527]     F24. The glycosylated serpin conjugate of paragraph F14 wherein the water
soluble polymer is NHS-PEG.
[00528]     F25. The glycosylated serpin conjugate of paragraph F14 wherein the water
soluble polymer is aminooxy-PEG.
[00529]     F26. The glycosylated serpin conjugate of paragraph F25 wherein the aminooxy
PEG is attached to the glycosylated serpin via an oxidized carbohydrate moiety on the
glycosylated serpin.
[00530]     F27. The glycosylated serpin conjugate of paragraph F16 wherein the water
soluble polymer is aminooxy-PSA.
[00531]     F28. The glycosylated serpin conjugate of paragraph F27 wherein the aminooxy
PSA is prepared by reacting an activated aminooxy linker with oxidized PSA;
[00532]     wherein the aminooxy linker is selected from the group consisting of:
[00533]     a) a 3-oxa-pentane-1,5-dioxyamine linker of the formula:
                                             -78-

[00534]     b) a 3,6,9-trioxa-undecane-1,11-dioxyamine linker of the formula:
and
[00535]     c) a 3,6,9,12,15-penatoxa-heptadecane- 1,17-dioxyamine linker of the formula:
         H2N "O                                 OO                                 N H2
[00536]     wherein the PSA is oxidized by incubation with a oxidizing agent to form a
terminal aldehyde group at the non-reducing end of the PSA.
[00537]     F29. The glycosylated serpin conjugate of paragraph F14 wherein the water
soluble polymer is MAL-PEG.
[00538]     F30. The glycosylated serpin conjugate of paragraph F29 wherein the MAL-PEG
is attached to the serpin via a reduced sulfhydryl (-SH) moiety on the glycosylated serpin.
[00539]     F3 1. The glycosylated serpin conjugate of paragraph F27 wherein the
glycosylated serpin is AlPI.
[00540]     F32. The glycosylated serpin conjugate of paragraph F31 wherein the AlPI
conjugate is mono-PEGylated.
[00541]     F33. The glycosylated serpin conjugate of paragraph F32 wherein at least 50% of
the AlPI is mono-PEGylated.
[00542]     F34. The glycosylated serpin conjugate of paragraph F32 wherein at least 60% of
the AlPI is mono-PEGylated.
[00543]     F35. The glycosylated serpin conjugate of paragraph F32 wherein at least 70% of
the AlPI is mono-PEGylated.
The present disclosure also provides the following exemplary embodiments:
[00544]     GI. A method of treating a disease associated with a serpin comprising
administering a glycosylated serpin conjugate according to any of the above claims in an
amount effective to treat said disease.
                                              - 79 -

[00545]     G2. The method according to paragraph GI wherein the serpin is AlPI.
[00546]     G3. The method according to paragraph G2 wherein the water soluble polymer is
MAL-PEG.
[00547]     G4. The method according to paragraph G3 wherein the disease is emphysema.
The present disclosure also provides the following exemplary embodiments:
[00548]     HI. A kit comprising a pharmaceutical composition comprising i) a glycosylated
serpin conjugate according to any of the above claims; and ii) a pharmaceutically acceptable
excipient; packaged in a container with a label that describes use of the pharmaceutical
composition in a method of treating a disease associated with the serpin.
[00549]     H2. The kit according to paragraph HI wherein the pharmaceutical composition
is packaged in a unit dose form.
[00550]     H3. A kit comprising a first container comprising a glycosylated serpin conjugate
according to any of the above claims, and a second container comprising a physiologically
acceptable reconstitution solution for said composition in the first container, wherein said kit
is packaged with a label that describes use of the pharmaceutical composition in a method of
treating a disease associated with the serpin.
[00551]     H4. The kit according to paragraph H3 wherein the pharmaceutical composition
is packaged in a unit dose form.
[00552]     The following examples are not intended to be limiting but only exemplary of
specific embodiments of the present disclosure.
                                          EXAMPLES
                                           Example 1
               Preparation of the homobifunctional linker NH 2 [OCH 2 CH2 12 ONH2
[00553]     The homobifunctional linker NH 2[OCH 2CH 2] 2ONH 2
[00554]     (3-oxa-pentane-1,5-dioxyamine) containing two active aminooxy groups was
synthesized according to Boturyn et al. (Tetrahedron 1997;53:5485-92) in a two step organic
reaction employing a modified Gabriel-Synthesis of primary amines (Figure 2). In the first
                                               - 80 -

step, one molecule of 2,2-chlorodiethylether was reacted with two molecules of Endo-N
hydroxy-5-norbornene-2,3-dicarboximide in dimethylformamide (DMF). The desired
homobifunctional product was prepared from the resulting intermediate by hydrazinolysis in
ethanol.
                                             Example 2
               Preparation of the homobifunctional linker NH 2 [OCH 2 CH2 i 4ONH2
[00555]      The homobifunctional linker NH2[OCH 2CH 2 ]4 0NH 2
[00556]      (3,6,9-trioxa-undecane-1,11-dioxyamine) containing two active aminooxy groups
was synthesized according to Boturyn et al. (Tetrahedron 1997;53:5485-92) in a two step
organic reaction employing a modified Gabriel-Synthesis of primary amines (Figure 2). In
the first step one molecule of Bis-(2-(2-chlorethoxy)-ethyl)-ether was reacted with two
molecules of Endo-N-hydroxy-5-norbomene-2,3-dicarboximide in DMF. The desired
homobifunctional product was prepared from the resulting intermediate by hydrazinolysis in
ethanol.
                                             Example 3
               Preparation of the homobifunctional linker NH2 [OCH 2 CH2 i 6 ONH2
[00557]      The homobifunctional linker NH 2[OCH 2CH 2] 6ONH 2
          H2 N             O                      O         O                      N H2
[00558]      (3,6,9,12,15-penatoxa-heptadecane-1,17-dioxyamine) containing two active
aminooxy groups was synthesized according to Boturyn et al. (Tetrahedron 1997;53:5485-92)
in a two step organic reaction employing a modified Gabriel-Synthesis of primary amines. In
the first step one molecule of hexaethylene glycol dichloride was reacted with two molecules
of Endo-N-hydroxy-5-norbornene-2,3-dicarboximide in DMF. The desired homobifunctional
product was prepared from the resulting intermediate by hydrazinolysis in ethanol.
                                             Example 4
                        Detailed synthesis of 3-oxa-pentane-1,5 dioxyamine
                                                - 81 -

[00559]     3-oxa-pentane-1,5 dioxyamine was synthesized according to Botyryn et al.
(Tetrahedron 1997; 53:5485-92) in a two step organic synthesis as outlined in Example 1.
Step 1:
[00560]     To a solution of Endo-N-hydroxy-5-norbonene-2,3- dicarboxiimide (59.0g;
1.00eq) in 700 ml anhydrous N,N-dimetylformamide anhydrous K2CO3 (45.51g; 1.00eq) and
2,2-dichlorodiethylether (15.84 ml; 0.41eq) were added. The reaction mixture was stirred for
22 h at 50'C. The mixture was evaporated to dryness under reduced pressure. The residue
was suspended in 2 L dichloromethane and extracted two times with saturated aqueous NaCl
solution (each 1 L). The Dichloromethane layer was dried over Na2SO4 and then evaporated
to dryness under reduced pressure and dried in high vacuum to give 64.5 g of 3-oxapentane
1,5-dioxy-endo-2',3'-dicarboxydiimidenorbornene as a white-yellow solid (intermediate 1).
Step2:
[00561]     To a solution of intermediate 1 (64.25 g; 1.00eq) in 800 ml anhydrous Ethanol,
31.0 ml Hydrazine hydrate (4.26eq) were added. The reaction mixture was then refluxed for
2hrs. The mixture was concentrated to the half of the starting volume by evaporating the
solvent under reduced pressure. The occurring precipitate was filtered off. The remaining
ethanol layer was evaporated to dryness under reduced pressure. The residue containing the
crude product 3-oxa-pentane -1,5-dioxyamine was dried in vacuum to yield 46.3g. The crude
product was further purified by column chromatography (Silicagel 60; isocratic elution with
Dichloromethane/Methanol mixture, 9+1) to yield 11.7 g of the pure final product 3-oxa
pentane -1,5-dioxyamine.
                                            Example 5
                                  Preparation of aminooxy-PSA
[00562]     1000 mg of oxidized PSA (MW = 20 kD) obtained from the Serum Institute of
India (Pune, India) was dissolved in 16 ml 50mM phospate buffer pH 6.0. Then 170 mg 3
oxa-pentane-1,5-dioxyamine was given to the reaction mixture. After shaking for 2 hrs at RT
78.5 mg sodium cyanoborohydride was added and the reaction was performed for 18 hours
over night. The reaction mixture was then subjected to a ultrafiltration/diafiltration procedure
(UF/DF) using a membrane with a 5 kD cut-off made of regenerated cellulose (Millipore).
[00563]     Alternatively aminooxy PSA can be prepared without an reduction step:
                                              - 82 -

[00564]      573 mg of oxidized PSA (MW = 20 kD) obtained from the Serum Institute of
India (Pune, India) was dissolved in 11,3 ml 50mM phosphate buffer pH 6.0 (Bufffer A).
Then 94 mg 3-oxa-pentane-1,5-dioxyamine was given to the reaction mixture. After shaking
for 5 h at RT the mixture was then subjected to a weak anion exchange chromatography step
employing a Fractogel EMD DEAE 650-M chromatography gel (column dimension:
XK16/105). The reaction mixture was diluted with 50 ml Buffer A and loaded onto the
DEAE column pre-equilibrated with Buffer A at a flow rate of 1 cm/min. Then the column
was washed with 20 CV Buffer B (20 mM Hepes, pH 6.0) to remove free 3-oxa-pentane-1,5
dioxyamine and cyanide at a flow rate of 2 cm/min. The aminooxy-PSA reagent was the
eluted with a step gradient consisting of 67 % Buffer B and 43 % Buffer C (20 mM Hepes,
1 M NaCl, pH 7.5). The eluate was concentrated by UF/DF using a 5 kD membrane made of
polyether sulfone (50 cm 2 , Millipore). The final diafiltration step was performed against
Buffer D (20 mM Hepes, 90 mM NaCl, pH 7.4). The preparation was analytically
characterized by measuring total PSA (Resorcinol assay) and total aminooxy groups (TNBS
assay) to determine the degree of modification. Furthermore the polydispersity as well as free
3-oxa-pentane-1,5-dioxyamine was determined
                                           Example 6
                           Lyophilization of of aminooxy-PSA reagent
[00565]      An Aminooxy - PSA reagent was prepared according to Example 5. After
diafiltration, the product was frozen at -80'C and lyophilized. After lyophilization the
reagent was dissolved in the appropriate volume of water and used for preparation of PSA
protein conjugates via carbohydrate modification.
                                           Example 7
                  PEGylation of Al PI with PEG maleimide (sequential method)
[00566]      25mg of purified AlPI were dissolved in reaction buffer (20mM Na2HPO4, 5 mM
EDTA, pH 7.0) to give a final concentration of 10 mg/ml. To this solution an aliquot of a
TCEP (Tris[2-carboxyethyl] phosphine hydrochloride / Thermo Scientific) stock solution
(5mg TCEP / ml reaction buffer) was added to get a molar excess of 3M TCEP. The mixture
was incubated for 1 hour in the dark at room temperature. Then the TCEP was separated by
gelfiltration using a PD-10 column (GE-Healthcare). Subsequently the AlPI was chemically
modified using a branched PEG maleimide 20kD (NOF Sunbright MA Series) in a 10 molar
excess. The modification reaction was performed for 1 hour at a temperature of T =+2-8'C
                                              - 83 -

in the dark followed by a quenching step using L-cysteine (final conc.: 10 mM). After the
addition of L-cysteine the reaction mixture was incubated under gentle shaking for an
additional hour at the same temperature.
[00567]     The modified AlPI was diluted with equilibration buffer (25mM Na2HPO4, pH
6.5) to correct the solutions conductivity to < 4.5 mS/cm and loaded onto a pre-packed
HiTrap   Q FF (GE-Healthcare)    with a column volume (CV) of 5ml and a flow rate of ml/min.
Then the column was equilibrated with 10 CV equilibration buffer (flow rate: 2 ml/min).
Finally the PEG-A1PI was eluted with a linear gradient with elution buffer (25mM
Na2HPO4. IM NaCl, pH 6.5).
                                            Example 8
              PEGylation of AlPI with PEG maleimide (simultaneous approach)
[00568]     30mg of purified AlPI were dissolved in reaction buffer (20mM Na2HPO4, 5 mM
EDTA, pH 7.0) to give a final concentration of 10 mg/ml. To this solution an aliquot of a
TCEP stock solution (5mg TCEP / ml reaction buffer) was added to get a molar excess of 4M
TCEP. The mixture was incubated for 10 minutes, then the chemical modification was
started by addition of a branched PEG maleimide 20kD (NOF Sunbright MA Series) in a 10
molar excess. The modification reaction was performed for 1 hour at a temperature of T
+2-8'C in the dark followed by a quenching step using L-cysteine (final conc.: 10 mM).
After the addition of L-cysteine the reaction mixture was incubated under gentle shaking for
an additional hour at the same temperature.
[00569]     The modified AlPI was diluted with equilibration buffer (25mM Na2HPO4, pH
6.5) to correct the solutions conductivity to < 4.5 mS/cm and loaded onto a pre-packed
HiTrap   Q FF (GE-Healthcare)    with a column volume (CV) of 5ml using a flow rate of 1
ml/min. Then the column was equilibrated with 10 CV equilibration buffer (flow rate: 2
ml/min). Finally the PEG-Al PI was eluted with a linear gradient with elution buffer (25mM
Na2HPO4. 1M NaCl, pH 6.5).
                                            Example 9
        Pharmacokinetic study of PEGylated AlPI monitored with a PEG-A1PI ELISA
[00570]     A PEG-A1PI ELISA was used for specifically measuring the concentrations of
PEGylated AlPI in plasma samples derived from a rat pharmacokinetic study. The assay
basically followed the application US 12/342,405. Briefly, we coated rabbit anti-PEG IgG
                                               - 84 -

(Epitomics, #YG-02-04-12P) at a concentration of 5 pg/mL in carbonate buffer, pH 9.5 to
Maxisorp F96 plates and detected bound PEGylated AlPI using a anti-human AlPI
peroxidase preparation (The Binding site, PP034). The assay showed a linear dose
concentration relation ranging from 2 to 32 ng/mL AlPI-bound PEG. We established this
assay range by serially diluting a preparation of PEGylated AlPI with a known concentration
of PEG, measured by using the colorimetric method described by Nag et al. (Anal Biochem
1996; 237: 224-31). A colorimetric assay for estimation of polyethylene glycol and
polyethylene glycolated proteins using ammonium ferrothiocyanate), and used the calibration
curve obtained for extrapolating the samples' signals. Figure 3 shows the pharmacokinetic
profile obtained.
[00571]      PEGylated AlPI was specifically measureable without any interference by
endogenous non-PEGylated rat AlPI at all time points after administration with the last
samples taken 48 h after administration. The concentrations measured decreased over time as
expected with no evidence for a massive dePEGylation of PEGylated AlPI occurring in the
rat circulation during the observation period. Thus, the PK profile obtained in the rat model
demonstrated the stability of the PEGylated AlPI in the rat circulation because of the specific
assay used for monitoring its concentration.
                                          Example 10
                     PEGylation of lysine residues in AlPI with PEG-NHS
[00572]      AlPI was PEGylated with a PEGylation reagent (SUNBRIGHT GL2-200GS /
NOF, Tokyo, Japan) with a molecular weight of 20 kD and containing an active NHS ester
(systematic name: 2,3-Bis(methylpolyoxyethylen-oxy)-1-(1,5-dioxo-5-succinimidyloxy,
pentyloxy)propan). A solution of purified AlPI in 50 mM phosphate buffer, pH 7.5 was
adjusted to a protein concentration of 3.3 mg/ml and the PEGylation reagent (stock solution:
50mg reagent / ml 2 mM HCl) was added to give a final concentration of 10 mg/ml. The
PEGylation reaction was carried out under gentle stirring at room tempaerture for 2 hours.
Then the reaction was stopped by the addition with gtlycine (final conc. 10 mM) for 1 hour.
Subsequently the pH of the reaction was adjusted to 6.5 by addition of 2N HCl and the
mixture was loaded onto an anion-exchange chromatography resin (Q-Sepharose FF / GE
Healthcare) pre-equilibrated with 25 mM phosphate buffer, pH 6.5. Then the column was
washed with 20 CV equilibration buffer to remove excess reagent and the PEGylated A IPI
                                              - 85 -

was eluted with elution buffer (25 mM phosphate buffer, 1 M NaCl) using a flow rate of 1
ml/min.
[00573]      Finally the eluate was concentrated by ultrafiltration/diafiltration using Vivaspin
devices (Sartorius, Gattingen, Gemany) with a membrane consisting of polyethersulfone and
a molecular weight cut-off of 10 kD. The final diafiltration step was performed against
50mM phosphate buffer pH 7.0.
                                           Example 11
                PEGylation of carbohydrate residues in AlPI (sequential method)
[00574]      To 2.0 mg AlPI dissolved in 1.5 ml 20 mM phosphate buffer, pH 6.0, an aqueous
sodium periodate solution (10 mM) was added to give a final concentration of 100 PM. The
mixture was shaken in the dark for lh at 4'C and quenched for 15min at RT by the addition
of an 1 M glycerol solution (final concentration: 10 mM). Then low molecular weight
contaminants were separated by gelfiltration on PD- 10 columns (GE Healthcare) pre
equilibrated with the same buffer system. Subsequently a linear aminooxy-PEG reagent
(NOF SUNBRIGHT ME 200C / NOF, Tokyo, Japan) was added to the AlPI containing
fraction and the mixture was shaken at pH 6.0 for 18 hours at 4'C. Finally the conjugate was
further purified by IEX under conditions as described above.
                                           Example 12
             PEGylation of carbohydrate residues in AlPI (simultaneous approach)
[00575]      10 mg A1PI is dissolved in 12 ml histidine - buffer, pH 6.0 (20 mM L-histidine,
150 mM NaCl, 5 mM CaCl2 ). Then an aqueous sodium periodate solution (5 mM) is added
to give a final concentration of 120 pM. Subsequently a linear PEG - aminooxy reagent with
a MW of 20 kD (reagent (NOF SUNBRIGHT ME 200C / NOF, Tokyo, Japan) is added to
give a 5 fold molar excess of PEG reagent. The mixture is incubated for 18 hours in the dark
at 4'C under gentle stirring and quenched for 15 min at room temperature by the addition of
25   l of 1 M aqueous cysteine solution. Finally the conjugate is further purified by IEX
under conditions as described above.
                                           Example 13
     PEGylation of carbohydrate residues in AlPI in the presence of nucleophilic catalyst
[00576]      A1PI is PEGylated via carbohydrate residues as described above. The chemical
reaction with the aminooxy reagent is performed in the presence of the nucleophilic catalyst
                                               - 86 -

aniline (Zheng et al, Nature Methods 2009;6:207-9) using a concentration of 10 mM. As an
alternative to this catalyst m-toluidine (concentration: 10 mM) is used. The chemical reaction
is carried out for 2 hours at room temperature instead of 18 hours at 4'C. As an alternative
m-toluidine or other nucleophilic catalysts as described in US 2012/0035344 Al can be used.
                                           Example 14
                                  Preparation of PSA maleimide
[00577]     0.68 g oxidized PSA was dissolved in 15.1 ml 50 mM phosphate buffer pH 6.0 to
give a final concentration of 43 mg/ml. Then a 50 mM solution of the bifunctional EMCH
linker (Pierce / 16.7 mg/ml in 50 mM phosphate buffer) containing a maleimide and a
hydrazide group was added. The pH was corrected to pH 6.0 and the solution was incubated
in the dark for 30 minutes at room temperature under gentle stirring. Subsequently 2.6 ml of
a IM NaBH 3CN solution (= 50 M excess) was added and another incubation was performed
for 180 minutes in the dark at R.T. under gentle stirring. Then the solution was diluted 1:1
with 50mM phosphate buffer pH 6 to reduce the conductivity (-7mS/cm). Then the mixture
was applied onto a prepacked IEX column with a bed volume of 8ml (monolith type DEAE
CIM / BIA Separations) for purification of the PSA maleimide linker at a flow rate of 4
ml/min. Then the column was washed with 32 column volumes 50 mM phosphate buffer pH
6.0 using a flow rate of 40 ml/min. Then the linker was eluted with a gradient of 59% 50mM
phosphate buffer pH 6.0 and 41% 50mM phosphate buffer/1M NaCl pH 7.5. Finally the
eluate was subjected to UF/DF using a Polyethersulfone membrane (type BIOMAX 5 /
Millipore). The final diafiltration step was carried out against 50 mM phosphate buffer, pH
7.5 containing 90 mM NaCl.
                                           Example 15
                Polysialylation of AlPI with PSA maleimide (sequential method)
[00578]     A1PI is polysialylated by use of a polysialylation reagent containing an active
maleimide group. An example of this type of reagent is described above (reaction of
oxidized PSA with the bifunctional EMCH linker (Pierce) and subsequent purification by
ion-exchange chromatography).
[00579]     A1PI is reduced with the TCEP reagent (Tris[2-carboxyethyl] phosphine
hydrochloride / Thermo Scientific) in reaction buffer (20mM Na2HPO4, 5 mM EDTA, pH
7.0) using a protein concentration of 10 mg/ml and a 3 M reagent excess. The mixture is
incubated for 1 hour in the dark at room temperature. Then the TCEP is separated by
                                               - 87 -

gelfiltration using a PD-10 column (GE-Healthcare). Subsequently the AlPI is chemically
modified with PSA maleimide in reaction buffer using a 10 molar reagent excess. The
modification reaction is performed for 1 hour at a temperature of 4 0 C in the dark followed by
a quenching step using L-cysteine (final conc.: 10 mM). After the addition of L-cysteine the
reaction mixture is incubated under gentle stirring for an additional hour at the same
temperature. Finally the polysialylated AlPI is purified by JEX on Q-Sepharose FF.
                                           Example 16
              Polysialylation of AlPI with PSA maleimide (simultaneous approach)
[00580]      A1PI is polysialylated by use of a polysialylation reagent containing an active
maleimide group. An example of this type of reagent is described above (reaction of
oxidized PSA with the bifunctional EMCH linker (Pierce) and subsequent purification by
ion-exchange chromatography).
[00581]      A1PI is dissolved in reaction buffer (20 mM Na2HPO4, 5 mM EDTA, pH 7.0) to
give a final concentration of 10 mg/ml. To this solution an aliquot of a TCEP (Tris[2
carboxyethyl] phosphine hydrochloride / Thermo Scientific) stock solution (5mg TCEP / ml
reaction buffer) is added to get a 4 fold molar excess. The mixture is incubated for 10
minutes, then the chemical modification is started by addition of the PSA maleimide reagent
(Example 14) in 10 molar excess.
[00582]      The modification reaction is performed for 1 hour at 40 C in the dark. After the
addition of L-cysteine the reaction mixture is incubated under gentle stirring for an additional
hour at the same temperature. Finally the polysialylated AlPI is purified by JEX on Q
Sepharose FF.
                                           Example 17
        Modification of SH groups in human serum albumin (HSA) with PEG maleimide
[00583]      30mg of purified HSA is dissolved in reaction buffer (20mM Na2HPO4, 5 mM
EDTA, pH 7.0) to give a final concentration of 10 mg/ml. To this solution an aliquot of a
TCEP stock solution (5mg TCEP / ml reaction buffer) is added to result in a molar excess of
4. The mixture is incubated for 10 minutes. The chemical modification is started by addition
of a 10-fold molar excess of a branched PEG reagent (molecular weight 20 kD) containing a
terminal maleimide group. An example of this type of reagent is the Sunbright  MA series
from NOF (NOF Corp., Tokyo, Japan). The modification reaction is performed for 1 hour at
                                               - 88 -

a temperature of T =+2-8'C in the dark followed by a quenching step using L-cysteine (final
conc.: 10 mM). After the addition of L-cysteine, the reaction mixture is incubated under
gentle shaking for an additional hour at the same temperature. The pH value is then adjusted
to 6.8 by dropwise addition of 0.1 M HCl.
[00584]      Subsequently, the conjugate is purified by anion-exchange chromatography on
DEAE - Sepharose FF. The reaction mixture is applied onto a chromatographic column
(volume: 20 ml). The column is then washed with 10 column volumes (CV) starting buffer
(25 mM sodium acetate, pH 6.2). The PEG-HSA conjugate is eluted with 25 mM sodium
acetate buffer, pH 4.5 and the OD at 280 nm is measured. The conjugate containing fractions
are pooled and subjected to UF/DF using a 10 kD membrane of regenerated cellulose.
                                            Example 18
                 Modification of SH groups in recombinant factor VIII (rFVIII)
[00585]      A recombinant FVIII (rFVIII) mutant containing a free and accessible sulfhydryl
groups is prepared according to US 7,632,921 B2 by recombinant DNA technology and is
used for chemical modification via free SH groups. This mutant is chemically modified
using a 10-fold molar excess of a branched PEG reagent (molecular weight 20 kD) containing
a terminal maleimide group. An example of this type of reagent is the Sunbright @ MA
series from NOF (NOF Corp., Tokyo, Japan). The reaction is carried out for 1 hour at room
temperature in the presence of a 5 fold excess of TCEP. Then the conjugate is purified by
Hydrophobic Interaction Chromatography (HIC). The ionic strength is increased by adding a
buffer containing 8M ammonium acetate (8M ammonium acetate, 50mM Hepes, 5mM
CaCl2, 350mM NaCl, 0.01% Tween 80, pH 6.9) to get a final concentration of 2.5M
ammonium acetate. Then the reaction mixture is loaded onto a chromatographic column
packed with Phenyl - Sepharose FF, which is equilibrated with equilibration buffer
(2.5M ammonium acetate, 50mM Hepes, 5mM CaCl2, 350mM NaCl, 0.01% Tween 80, pH
6.9). The product is eluted with elution buffer (50mM Hepes, 5mM CaCl2, 0.01% Tween 80,
pH 7.4), and the eluate is concentrated by UF/DF using a 30 kD membrane made of
regenerated cellulose.
                                            Example 19
                           Polysialylation of other therapeutic proteins
[00586]      Polysialylation reactions performed in the presence of alternative nucleophilic
catalysts like m-toluidine or o-aminobenzoic acid as described herein may be extended to
                                               - 89 -

other therapeutic proteins. For example, in various aspects of the present disclosure, the
above polysialylation or PEGylation reactions as described above with PSA aminooxy or
PEG aminooxy reagents is repeated with therapeutic proteins such as those proteins described
herein.
                                            Example 20
                            PEGylation of a therapeutic protein using branched PEG
[00587]      PEGylation of a therapeutic protein of the present disclosure may be extended to a
branched or linear PEGylation reagent, which is made of an aldehyde and a suitable linker
containing an active aminooxy group.
                                            Example 21
                           Polysialylation of other therapeutic proteins
[00588]      Polysialylation reactions performed in the presence of alternative nucleophilic
catalysts like m-toluidine or o-aminobenzoic acid as described herein may be extended to
other therapeutic proteins. For example, in various aspects of the present disclosure, the
above polysialylation or PEGylation reactions as described above with PSA aminooxy or
PEG aminooxy reagents is repeated with therapeutic proteins such as those proteins described
herein. The polysialylation reaction is carried out in in individual reaction steps or, in the
alternative, in a simultaneous reaction as described herein.
                                            Example 22
                    PEGylation of a therapeutic protein using branched PEG
[00589]      PEGylation, according to the examples provided herein, of a therapeutic protein of
the present disclosure may be extended to a branched or linear PEGylation reagent, which is
made of an aldehyde and a suitable linker containing an active aminooxy group.
                                            Example 23
                            PEGylation of a therapeutic protein using branched PEG
[00590]      PEGylation of a therapeutic protein of the present disclosure may be extended to a
branched or linear PEGylation reagent as described above, which is made of an aldehyde and
a suitable linker containing an active aminooxy group. The PEGylation reaction is carried
out in in individual reaction steps or, in the alternative, in a simultaneous reaction as
described herein.
                                                - 90 -

                                            Example 24
                         Polysialylation of albumin [sequential approach
[00591]      PSA maleimide was prepared according to Example 14 and is used for the
polysialylation of human serum albumin (HSA) via free SH-groups using the sequential
approach. HSA is reduced with the TCEP reagent (Tris[2-carboxyethyl] phosphine
hydrochloride / Thermo Scientific) in reaction buffer (20mM Na 2HPO 4 , 5 mM EDTA, pH
7.0) using a protein concentration of 10 mg/ml and a 3 M reagent excess. The mixture is
incubated for 1 hour in the dark at room temperature. Then TCEP is separated by
gelfiltration using a PD-10 column (GE-Healthcare). Subsequently, the HSA is chemically
modified with PSA maleimide in reaction buffer using a 10 molar reagent excess. The
modification reaction is performed for 1 hour at a temperature of 4'C in the dark followed by
a quenching step using L-cysteine (final conc.: 10 mM). After the addition of L-cysteine the
reaction mixture is incubated under gentle stirring for an additional hour at the same
temperature. Finally, the polysialylated HSA is purified by IEX on Q-Sepharose FF.
                                            Example 25
                           Polysialylation of albumin (simultaneous approach)
[00592]      PSA maleimide was prepared according to Example 14 and is used for the
polysialylation of human serum albumin (HSA) via free SH-groups using the simultaneous
approach HSA is dissolved in reaction buffer (20 mM Na 2HPO 4 , 5 mM EDTA, pH 7.0) to
give a final concentration of 10 mg/ml. To this solution an aliquot of a TCEP (Tris[2
carboxyethyl] phosphine hydrochloride / Thermo Scientific) stock solution (5mg TCEP / ml
reaction buffer) is added to get a 4 fold molar excess. The mixture is incubated for 10
minutes, then the chemical modification is started by addition of the PSA maleimide reagent
(Example 14) in 10 fold molar excess. The modification reaction is performed for 1 hour at
4'C in the dark. After the addition of L-cysteine the reaction mixture is incubated under
gentle stirring for an additional hour at the same temperature. Finally, the polysialylated
HSA is purified by IEX on Q-Sepharose FF.
                                            Example 26
                                        PEGylation of AlPI
[00593]      Several batches with 2.6 mg of AlPI (pure AlPI starting material) in 1 ml of
reaction buffer (20 mM Na 2HPO 4 , 5 mM EDTA, pH 7.0) were processed by use of different
                                                -91-

molar excesses of the reductant TCEP. The goal of these investigation was the optimization
of the TCEP concentration for the reaction PEG-maleimide with AlPI.
[00594]     The PEGylation reaction was carried out in a 10-fold molar PEG excess
simultaneously with reduction on the one hand and sequentially after removal of the
reductants on the other. The optimum molar TCEP excess was tested for both variants.
[00595]     Finally, the mixture was quenched with cysteine in a 10-fold molar excess based
on the quantity of PEG reagent used at room temperature for one hour.
Determination of the optimum reductant excess.
[00596]     All factors with the exception of the molar excess of TCEP were kept constant in
the modification batches. Since it was the objective of this technique to bind the 20 kD
MAL-PEG selectively to the only cysteine of AlPI, all that had to be taken into account for
HPLC analysis was the ratio of mono-PEG-AlPI to the native AlPI. Poly-PEG-AlPI was
not observed under the applicable conditions, which confirms the assumption of specific
coupling.
[00597]     The comparison of two conjugations demonstrated that conjugation proceeded
much better in the case of sequential reduction / PEGylation than in the simultaneous
approach. Even with a 3-molar excess of TCEP, a maximum ratio of about 79 % of mono
PEG AlPI was achieved, while the highest mono-PEG-A IPI ratio of about 74 % was
obtained with a 4-molar excess on TCEP in a simultaneous process. Reduction with
mercaptoethanol in the concentrations 0.4, 2 and 4 mM (= 8, 40, 80-fold molar excess) was
also tested in the sequential variant, also including the concentration (2 mM) with the highest
PEGylation turnover in the comparison. It turned out that mercaptoethanol could be a useful
alternative for the sequential approach, but not for the simultaneous conjugation process,
because it was not compatible with the MAL-PEG reaction.
Table 1
                               Mono-PEG-        Native AlPI    Mono-PEG-      Native AlPI
     Molar TCEP excess          AlPI (left)          (left)    AlPI (right)       (right)
               0                  2.87%            97.13%          2.87%         97.13%
               1                  34.83%           65.17%         69.65%         30.35%
              2                   55.38%           44.62%         76.53%         23.47%
               3                  67.97%           32.03%         78.91%         21.09%
              4                  73.95%            26.05%         76.33%         23.67%
               5                 71.85%            28.15%         74.09%         25.91%
              10                 70.94%            29.06%         67.49%         32.51%
                                                -92-

              100             1   21.06%         78.94%          52.22%          47.78%
  *2 mM mercaptoethanol               -             -            77.52%          22.48%
Testing the optimum molar PEG excess
[00598]      The influence of the PEG excess on the PEGylation reaction was tested both for
the simultaneous and the sequential process. For this purpose, the modification batches were
treated under the same reaction conditions as for the optimization of the reductant (TCEP).
The simultaneous process was adjusted to a 4-fold and the sequential process a 3-fold molar
TCEP excess, i.e. to the ideal reductant excesses determined earlier. All factors except the
PEG excess were kept constant. Analysis of the PEGylation turnover of the respective
batches was carried out by HPLC.
Table 2
                        Mono-PEG-        Native AlPI      Mono-PEG-          Native AlPI
  Molar PEG excess
                        AlPI (%) left      (%) left      AlPI (%) right       (%) right
           1                14.35           85.65             68.76             31.24
           3                37.83           62.12             85.47             14.53
           5                63.21           36.79             85.23             14.77
          10                68.94           31.06             84.22             15.78
          15                68.79           31.21             82.46             17.54
         25                 67.00           33.00             76.72             23.28
         50                 35.14           64.86             41.22             58.78
[00599]      The comparison of both PEGylation variants (Table 2) showed that even a 3-fold
molar PEG excess resulted in the maximum PEGylation turnover of up to 85% in a sequential
process. On the other hand, the simultaneous process carried out under the same reaction
conditions (3-fold PEG excess) does not even achieve half of this PEGylation turnover.
Moreover, Table 2 shows that a PEG excess which is too high will probably impede the
PEGylation reaction owing to the high ratio of native AlPI.
[00600]      A better PEGylation rate was also achieved in the sequential process by collecting
the reduced AlPI with a Falkon tube filled with the respective PEG excess during the
removal of TECP by means of a PD-10 column, because the reduced AlPI was able to react
directly with the PEG, resulting in a higher PEGylation turnover.
[00601]      In comparison, the PEG reagent was added only after the PD-10 column
procedure had been conducted in the TCEP optimization so that even after this short
                                              -93-

residence time a small portion of the reduced AlPI seemed to re-oxidise and the PEG turnover
was smaller.
                                              Example 27
                            Inhibition of elastase with PEGylated AlPI
[00602]      Mono-PEGylated AlPI was prepared via modification of SH-groups by reaction
with MAL-PEG 20 kD as described in Example 8 and subjected to an in vitro activity test. This
test determines the capability of AlPI to inhibit porcine pancreas elastase as a measure of its
functional activity. In brief, the elastase inhibitor activity of AlPI or the AlPI derivative is
determined in a two-step reaction. In the first step the AlPI sample is incubated with an excess
of porcine elastase. This causes complex formation and inactivation of elastase. In the second
step, the remaining elastase activity is measured by addition of the elastase- specific
chromogenic substrate Suc(Ala) 3 -pNA. The release of pNA can be measured photometrically at
405nm and is a direct measure for the residual elastase activity. The residual elastase activity is
within a predefined range indirect proportional to the AlPI concentration. The assay calibration
is achieved by using an Al PI reference preparation, calibrated against the 1" WHO standard for
al-antitrypsin (WHO 05/162; 12.4 mg functionally active AlPI/mL). The results were
expressed in mg active AlPI/ml. In addition the total protein content was measured by the
Bradford assay and the ratio activity / total protein was calculated.
[00603]      As a result an activity of 74% was determined for the mono-PEGylated AlPI
modification variant as compared to non-modified AlPI.
[00604]      The term 'comprise' and variants of the term such as 'comprises' or 'comprising'
are used herein to denote the inclusion of a stated integer or stated integers but not to exclude
any other integer or any other integers, unless in the context or usage an exclusive
interpretation of the term is required.
[00605]      Any reference to publications cited in this specification is not an admission that the
disclosures constitute common general knowledge in Australia.
                                                 - 94 -

[006061         Definitions of the specific embodiments of the invention as claimed herein
follow.
[006071         According to a first embodiment of the invention, there is provided a method of
preparing a therapeutic protein conjugate comprising the step of contacting a therapeutic
protein, or biologically-active fragment thereof, with a thiol reductant and a water soluble
polymer, or functional derivative thereof, under conditions that (a) produce a reduced cysteine
sulfhydryl group on the therapeutic protein, and (b) allow conjugation of the water-soluble
polymer to the reduced cysteine sulfhydryl group; said therapeutic protein having an amino acid
sequence with no more than one accessible cysteine sulfhydryl group
wherein the therapeutic protein is selected from the group consisting of Factor IX (FIX), Factor
VIIa (FVIIa), Von Willebrand Factor (VWF), Factor FV (FV), Factor X (FX), Factor XI (FXI),
Factor XII (FXII), Factor XIII (FXIII), and thrombin (FII).
[00608]         According to a second embodiment of the invention, there is provided a method
of preparing a therapeutic protein conjugate comprising the step of contacting a therapeutic
protein, or biologically-active fragment thereof, with a thiol reductant and a water soluble
polymer, or functional derivative thereof, under conditions that (a) produce a reduced cysteine
sulfhydryl group on the therapeutic protein, and (b) allow conjugation of the water-soluble
polymer to the reduced cysteine sulfhydryl group;
said therapeutic protein having an amino acid sequence with no more than one accessible
cysteine sulfhydryl group,
wherein the water soluble polymer is not polysialic acid (PSA), and
the therapeutic protein is selected from the group consisting of AlPI (alpha-i proteinase
inhibitor), AlAT (alpha-1-antitrypsin), ATR (alpha-1-antitrypsin-related protein), AACT or
ACT (alpha-1-antichymotrypsin), P14 (proteinase inhibitor 4), PCI (protein C inhibitor), CBG
(corticosteroid-binding globulin), TBG (thyroxine-binding globulin), AGT (angiotensinogen),
centerin, PZI (protein Z-dependent protease inhibitor), P12 (proteinase inhibitor 2), SCCA1
(squamous cell carcinoma antigen 1), SCCA2 (squamous cell carcinoma antigen 2), P15
(proteinase inhibitor 5), P16 (proteinase inhibitor 6), megsin, P18 (proteinase inhibitor 8), P19
(proteinase inhibitor 9), PIl0 (proteinase inhibitor 10), epipin, yukopin, P113 (proteinase
inhibitor 13), P18L1 (proteinase inhibitor 8-like 1), AT3 or ATIII (antithrombin-III), PN1
                                                - 95 -

(proteinase nexin I), PEDF (pigment epithelium-derived factor), PLI (plasmin inhibitor), ClIN
or C I1NH (plasma proteinase C1 inhibitor), CBP 1 (collagen-binding protein 1), CBP2
(collagen-binding protein 2), PI12 (proteinase inhibitor 12), and PI14 (proteinase inhibitor 14),
human serum albumin, alcohol dehydrogenase, biliverdin reductase, buturylcholinesterase,
complement C5a, cortisol-binding protein, creatine kinase, ferritin, heparin cofactor, interleukin
2, vitronectin, ovalbumin, plasminogen-activator inhibitor, neuroserpin, nexin, alpha-2
antiplasmin, alphal-microglobulin, protein S, tPA, TF (tissue factor) and ADAMTS 13
protease.
                                              - 96 -

[006091         Embodiments of the invention are defined in the paragraphs below:
1. A method of preparing a therapeutic protein conjugate comprising the step of
        contacting a therapeutic protein, or biologically-active fragment thereof, with a thiol
reductant and a water soluble polymer, or functional derivative thereof, under conditions that
(a) produce a reduced cysteine sulfhydryl group on the therapeutic protein, and (b) allow
conjugation of the water-soluble polymer to the reduced cysteine sulfhydryl group;
        said therapeutic protein having an amino acid sequence with no more than one
accessible cysteine sulhydryl group.
2. The method according to paragraph 1 wherein the therapeutic protein is selected from the
group consisting of:
        a protein of the serpin superfamily selected from the group consisting of: AlPI (alpha-i
proteinase inhibitor), or AlAT (alpha-i -antitrypsin), ATR (alpha- 1-antitrypsin related protein),
AACT or ACT (alpha-1-antichymotrypsin), P14 (proteinase inhibitor 4), PCI or PROCI (protein
C inhibitor), CBG, (corticosteroid-binding globulin), TBG (thyroxine binding globulin), AGT
(angiotensinogen), centerin, PZI (protein Z-dependent protease inhibitor), P12 (proteinase
inhibitor 2), PAI2 or PLANH2 (plasminogen activator inhibitor-2), SCCA1 (squamous cell
carcinoma antigen 1), SCCA2 (squamous cell carcinoma antigen 2), P15 (proteinase inhibitor
5), P16 (proteinase inhibitor 6), megsin, P18 (proteinase inhibitor 8), P19 (proteinase inhibitor
9), PIl0 (proteinase inhibitor 10), epipin, yukopin, P113 (proteinase inhibitor 13), P18L1
(proteinase inhibitor 8-like 1), AT3 or ATIII (antithrombin-III), HC-II or HCF2 (heparin
cofactor II), PAIl or PLANHI (plasminogen activator inhibitor-1), PNI (proteinase nexin I),
PEDF, (pigment epithelium-derived factor), PLI (plasmin inhibitor), ClIN or C I NH (plasma
proteinase CI inhibitor), CBPI (collagen-binding protein 1), CBP2 (collagen-binding protein
2), P112 (proteinase inhibitor 12), and P114 (proteinase inhibitor 14);
        a protein selected from the group consisting of: antithrombin III, alpha-I
antichymotrypsin, human serum albumin, alcoholdehydrogenase, biliverdin reductase,
buturylcholinesterase, complement C5a, cortisol-binding protein, creatine kinase, ferritin,
heparin cofactor, interleukin 2, protein C inhibitor, tissue factor; vitronectin; ovalbumin,
plasminogen-activator inhibitor, neuroserpin, Cl-Inhibitor, nexin, alpha-2-antiplasmin, heparin
cofactor II, alphal-antichymotrypsin, alphal -microglobulin; and
                                               - 97 -

        a blood coagulation factor protein selected from the group consisting of: Factor IX
(FIX), Factor VIII (FVIII), Factor VIIa (FVIIa), Von Willebrand Factor (VWF), Factor FV
(FV), Factor X (FX), Factor XI (FXI), Factor XII (FXII), Factor XIII (FXIII) thrombin (FII),
protein C, protein S, tPA, PAI-1, tissue factor (TF) and ADAMTS 13 protease.
3. The method according to paragraph 3 wherein the therapeutic protein is AlPI.
4. The method according to paragraph 3 wherein the therapeutic protein is human serum
albumin.
5. The method according to paragraph 1 wherein the therapeutic protein is a glycoprotein.
6. The method according to paragraph 5 wherein the therapeutic protein is glycosylated in vivo.
7. The method according to paragraph 5 wherein the therapeutic protein is glycosylated in vitro.
8. The method according to paragraph 1 comprising a quantity of therapeutic protein between
0.100 and 10.0 gram weight.
9. The method according to paragraph 1 wherein the water-soluble polymer is selected from the
group consisting of linear, branched or multi-arm water soluble polymer.
10. The method according to paragraph 9 wherein the water-soluble polymer has a molecular
weight between 3,000 and 150,000 Daltons (Da).
11. The method according to paragraph 10 wherein the water-soluble polymer is linear and has
a molecular weight between 10,000 and 50,000 Da.
12. The method according to paragraph 11 wherein the water-soluble polymer is linear and has
a molecular weight of 20,000.
13. The method according to paragraph 9 wherein the water-soluble polymer is selected from
the group consisting of polyethylene glycol (PEG), branched PEG, PolyPEG@ (Warwick Effect
Polymers; Coventry, UK), polysialic acid (PSA), starch, hydroxylethyl starch (HES),
hydroxyalkyl starch (HAS), carbohydrate, polysaccharides, pullulane, chitosan, hyaluronic acid,
chondroitin sulfate, dermatan sulfate, dextran, carboxymethyl-dextran, polyalkylene oxide
(PAO), polyalkylene glycol (PAG), polypropylene glycol (PPG), polyoxazoline,
polyacryloylmorpholine, polyvinyl alcohol (PVA), polycarboxylate, polyvinylpyrrolidone,
polyphosphazene, polyoxazoline, polyethylene-co-maleic acid anhydride, polystyrene-co
maleic acid anhydride, poly(1-hydroxymethylethylene hydroxymethylformal) (PHF), 2
                                               - 98 -

methacryloyloxy-2'-ethyltrimethylammoniumphosphate (MPC), and functional derivatives
thereof.
14. The method according to paragraph 9 wherein the water soluble polymer is derivatized to
contain a sulfhydryl-specific group selected from the group consisting of: maleimide (MAL),
vinylsulfones, orthopyridyl-disulfides (OPSS) and iodacetamides.
15. The method according paragraph 13 wherein the water soluble polymer is PEG and the
sulfhydryl-specific group is MAL.
16. The method according to paragraph 13 wherein the water soluble polymer is PSA and the
sulfhydryl-specific group is MAL.
17. The method according to paragraph 1 wherein the thiol reductant is selected from the group
consisting of: Tris[2-carboxyethyl] phosphine hydrochloride (TCEP), dithiothreitol (DTT),
dithioerythritol (DTE), sodium borohydride (NaBH 4), sodium cyanoborohydride (NaCNBH 3),
p-mercaptoethanol (BME), cysteine hydrochloride and cysteine.
18. The method according to paragraph 17 wherein the thiol reductant is TCEP.
19. The method according to paragraph 17 wherein the thiol reductant concentration is between
1 and 100-fold molar excess relative to the therapeutic protein concentration.
20. The method according to paragraph 19 wherein the thiol reductant concentration is between
1 and 10-fold molar excess relative to the therapeutic protein concentration.
21. The method according to paragraph 1 wherein the amino acid sequence of the therapeutic
protein contains no more than one cysteine residue.
22. The method paragraph 1 wherein the accessible cysteine sulfhydryl group is present in a
native amino acid sequence of the therapeutic protein.
23. The method according to paragraph 1 wherein the amino acid sequence of therapeutic
protein is modified to include the accessible cysteine sulfhydryl group.
24. The method according to paragraph 1 wherein the conditions that produce a reduced
cysteine sulfhydryl group on the therapeutic protein do not reduce a disulfide bond between
other cysteine amino acids in the protein.
25. The method according to paragraph 1 wherein therapeutic protein comprises only one
cysteine residue which comprises an accessible sulfhydryl group that is completely or partially
                                               - 99 -

oxidized, said only one cysteine residue is not involved in a disulfide bond with another
cysteine residue in the therapeutic protein's amino acid sequence.
26. The method according to paragraph 1 further comprising the step of purifying the
therapeutic protein conjugate.
27. The method according to paragraph 26 wherein the therapeutic protein conjugate is purified
using a technique selected from the group consisting of ion-exchange chromatography,
hydrophobic interaction chromatography, size exclusion chromatography and affinity
chromatography or combinations thereof.
28. The method according to paragraph 1 wherein the therapeutic protein, water soluble
polymer and thiol reductant are incubated together in a single vessel, wherein the reduction of
the oxidized SH group and the conjugation reaction is carried out simultaneously.
29. The method according to paragraph 1 wherein the thiol reductant is removed following
incubation with the therapeutic protein and prior to incubating the therapeutic protein with the
water-soluble polymer, wherein the reduction of the oxidized SH group and the conjugation
reaction is carried out sequentially.
30. The method according to paragraph 1 wherein the therapeutic protein conjugate retains at
least 20% biological activity relative to native therapeutic protein.
31. The method according to paragraph 1 wherein at least 70% of the therapeutic protein
conjugate comprises a single water-soluble polymer.
32. The method according to paragraph 1 wherein the therapeutic protein conjugate has an
increased half-life relative to native therapeutic protein.
33. The method according to paragraph 32 wherein the therapeutic protein conjugate has at
least a 1.5-fold increase in half-life relative to native therapeutic protein
34. A method of preparing an AlPI conjugate comprising the steps of:
        contacting the AlPI with TCEP under conditions that allow the reduction of a
sulfhydryl group on the AlPI, and
        contacting a linear PEG derivatized to contain a MAL group with the AlPI under
conditions that allow conjugation of the water-soluble polymer to the reduced sulfhydryl group;
                                                 - 100  -

       said AlPI comprising only one cysteine residue which comprises an accessible
sulfhydryl group that is completely or partially oxidized, said only one cysteine residue is not
involved in a di-sulfide bond with another cysteine residue in the A1PI's amino acid sequence;
       said TCEP concentration is between 3 and 4-fold molar excess relative to the AlPI
concentration;
       wherein at least 70% of the AlPI conjugate comprises a single water-soluble polymer;
       said AlPI conjugate having an increased half-life relative to native AlPI; and
       said AlPI conjugate retaining at least 60% biological activity relative to native AlPI.
                                              - 101 -

What is claimed:
1. A method of preparing a therapeutic protein conjugate comprising the step of contacting a
therapeutic protein, or biologically-active fragment thereof, with a thiol reductant and a water
soluble polymer, or functional derivative thereof, under conditions that (a) produce a reduced
cysteine sulfhydryl group on the therapeutic protein, and (b) allow conjugation of the water
soluble polymer to the reduced cysteine sulfhydryl group; said therapeutic protein having an
amino acid sequence with no more than one accessible cysteine sulfhydryl group
wherein the therapeutic protein is selected from the group consisting of Factor IX (FIX), Factor
VIIa (FVIIa), Von Willebrand Factor (VWF), Factor FV (FV), Factor X (FX), Factor XI (FXI),
Factor XII (FXII), Factor XIII (FXIII), and thrombin (FII).
2. The method according to claim 1 wherein the therapeutic protein is a glycoprotein.
3. The method according to claim 2 wherein the therapeutic protein is glycosylated in vivo.
4. The method according to claim 2 wherein the therapeutic protein is glycosylated in vitro.
5. The method according to claim 1 comprising a quantity of the therapeutic protein between
0.100 and 10.0 gram weight.
6. The method according to claim 1 wherein the water-soluble polymer is selected from the
group consisting of linear, branched and multi-arm water soluble polymer.
7. The method according to claim 6 wherein the water-soluble polymer has a molecular weight
between 3,000 and 150,000 Daltons (Da).
8. The method according to claim 7 wherein the water-soluble polymer is linear and has a
molecular weight between 10,000 and 50,000 Da.
9. The method according to claim 8 wherein the water-soluble polymer is linear and has a
molecular weight of 20,000.
10. The method according to claim 6 wherein the water-soluble polymer is selected from the
group consisting of polyethylene glycol (PEG), branched PEG, PolyPEG@( Warwick Effect
Polymers; Coventry, UK), polysialic acid (PSA), starch, hydroxylethyl starch (HES),
hydroxyalkyl starch (HAS), polysaccharides, pullulan, chitosan, hyaluronic acid, chondroitin
                                               - 102 -

sulfate, dermatan sulfate, dextran, carboxymethyl-dextran, polyalkylene oxide (PAO),
polyalkylene glycol (PAG), polypropylene glycol (PPG), polyoxazoline,
polyacryloylmorpholine, polyvinyl alcohol (PVA), polycarboxylate, polyvinylpyrrolidone,
polyphosphazene, polyoxazoline, polyethylene-co-maleic acid anhydride, polystyrene-co
maleic acid anhydride, poly(1-hydroxymethylethylene hydroxymethylformal) (PHF), and
functional derivatives thereof.
11. The method according to claim 6 wherein the water soluble polymer is derivatized to
contain a sulfhydryl-specific group selected from the group consisting of:
maleimide (MAL), vinylsulfones, orthopyridyl-disulfides (OPSS) and iodacetamides.
12. The method according claim 10 wherein the water soluble polymer is PEG and the
sulfhydryl-specific group is MAL.
13. The method according to claim 10 wherein the water soluble polymer is PSA and the
sulfhydryl-specific group is MAL.
14. The method according to claim 1 wherein the thiol reductant is selected from the group
consisting of: Tris[2-carboxyethyl] phosphine hydrochloride (TCEP), dithiothreitol (DTT),
dithioerythritol (DTE), sodium borohydride (NaBH 4), sodium cyanoborohydride (NaCNBH 3),
mercaptoethanol (BME), cysteine hydrochloride and cysteine.
15. The method according to claim 14 wherein the thiol reductant is TCEP.
16. The method according to claim 14 wherein the thiol reductant concentration is between 1
and 100-fold molar excess relative to the therapeutic protein concentration.
17. The method according to claim 16 wherein the thiol reductant concentration is between 1
and 10-fold molar excess relative to the therapeutic protein concentration.
18. The method according to claim 1 wherein the amino acid sequence of the therapeutic
protein contains no more than one cysteine residue.
19. The method according to claim 1 wherein the accessible cysteine sulfhydryl group is
present in a native amino acid sequence of the therapeutic protein.
                                              - 103 -

20. The method according to claim 1 wherein the amino acid sequence of the therapeutic
protein is modified to include the accessible cysteine sulfhydryl group.
21. The method according to claim 1 wherein the conditions that produce a reduced cysteine
sulfhydryl group on the therapeutic protein do not reduce a disulfide bond between other
cysteine amino acids in the therapeutic protein.
22. The method according to claim 1 wherein the therapeutic protein comprises only one
cysteine residue which comprises an accessible sulfhydryl group that is completely or partially
oxidized, said only one cysteine residue is not involved in a disulfide bond with another
cysteine residue in the therapeutic protein's amino acid sequence.
23. The method according to claim 1 further comprising the step of purifying the therapeutic
protein conjugate.
24. The method according to claim 23 wherein the therapeutic protein conjugate is purified
using a technique selected from the group consisting of ion-exchange chromatography,
hydrophobic interaction chromatography, size exclusion chromatography and affinity
chromatography or combinations thereof.
25. The method according to claim 1 wherein the therapeutic protein, water soluble polymer
and thiol reductant are incubated together in a single vessel, wherein the reduction of the
oxidized SH group and the conjugation reaction is carried out simultaneously.
26. The method according to claim 1 wherein the thiol reductant is removed following
incubation with the therapeutic protein and prior to incubating the therapeutic protein with the
water-soluble polymer, wherein the reduction of the oxidized SH group and the conjugation
reaction is carried out sequentially.
27. The method according to claim 1 wherein the therapeutic protein conjugate retains at least
20% biological activity relative to native therapeutic protein.
28. The method according to claim 1 wherein at least 70% of the therapeutic protein conjugate
comprises a single water-soluble polymer.
29. The method according to claim 1 wherein the therapeutic protein conjugate has an increased
half-life relative to native therapeutic protein.
                                                - 104 -

30. The method according to claim 29 wherein the therapeutic protein conjugate has at least a
1.5-fold increase in half-life relative to native therapeutic protein.
31. A method of preparing a therapeutic protein conjugate comprising the step of contacting a
therapeutic protein, or biologically-active fragment thereof, with a thiol reductant and a water
soluble polymer, or functional derivative thereof, under conditions that (a) produce a reduced
cysteine sulfhydryl group on the therapeutic protein, and (b) allow conjugation of the water
soluble polymer to the reduced cysteine sulfhydryl group;
said therapeutic protein having an amino acid sequence with no more than one accessible
cysteine sulfhydryl group,
wherein the water soluble polymer is not polysialic acid (PSA), and
the therapeutic protein is selected from the group consisting of AlPI (alpha-i proteinase
inhibitor), AlAT (alpha-1-antitrypsin), ATR (alpha-1-antitrypsin-related protein), AACT or
ACT (alpha-1-antichymotrypsin), P14 (proteinase inhibitor 4), PCI (protein C inhibitor), CBG
(corticosteroid-binding globulin), TBG (thyroxine-binding globulin), AGT (angiotensinogen),
centerin, PZI (protein Z-dependent protease inhibitor), P12 (proteinase inhibitor 2), SCCA1
(squamous cell carcinoma antigen 1), SCCA2 (squamous cell carcinoma antigen 2), P15
(proteinase inhibitor 5), P16 (proteinase inhibitor 6), megsin, P18 (proteinase inhibitor 8), P19
(proteinase inhibitor 9), PIl0 (proteinase inhibitor 10), epipin, yukopin, P113 (proteinase
inhibitor 13), P18L1 (proteinase inhibitor 8-like 1), AT3 or ATIII (antithrombin-III), PN1
(proteinase nexin I), PEDF (pigment epithelium-derived factor), PLI (plasmin inhibitor), ClIN
or C I1NH (plasma proteinase C1 inhibitor), CBP 1 (collagen-binding protein 1), CBP2
(collagen-binding protein 2), PI12 (proteinase inhibitor 12), and PI14 (proteinase inhibitor 14),
human serum albumin, alcohol dehydrogenase, biliverdin reductase, buturylcholinesterase,
complement C5a, cortisol-binding protein, creatine kinase, ferritin, heparin cofactor, interleukin
2, vitronectin, ovalbumin, plasminogen-activator inhibitor, neuroserpin, nexin, alpha-2
antiplasmin, alphal-microglobulin, protein S, tPA, TF (tissue factor) and ADAMTS 13
protease.
Date: 15 June 2018
                                                 - 105 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
