C:\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DER\17223039_.doex-27/06/2018
                                                         ABSTRACT
                A method for node placement planning, comprising:
                identifying a number of structural rules based on structural information of an
area utilizing a map displaying the structural information of the area;
                determining a placement for each node of a number of nodes of a node
network on the map of the area utilizing a node placement model;
                identifying a placement of a node among the number of nodes that deviates
from a structural rule among the number of structural rules, wherein the placement
of the node overlaps with a structural element such that the node cannot be
physically placed on for installation; and
                providing an indication of the node that deviates from the structural rule on
the map of the area notifying a user to revise the placement of the node in
response to a determination that a potential installation problem exists resulting
from the node deviating from a structural rule; and
                installing the number of nodes based on the map of the area with nodes
placed thereon and the revised placement of the node deviating from the structural
rule.

C:\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DER\17223039_.doex-27/06/2018
                                                         Related Application
                This is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2014208289, the
originally filed specification of which is incorporated herein by reference in its
entirety.
                                                          Technical Field
                The present disclosure relates to methods, systems, and computer
readable and executable instructions for node placement planning.
                                                            Background
                Nodes can be placed at various places in an area (e.g., room of a building,
area of a compound and/or facility, floor of a building, area, etc.) to form a network,
which can distribute data and/or collect data. A node can include a radio
frequency (RF) device, a sensor, a wireless router, and/or a camera, for example.
During installation of nodes, a site survey team can design a network topology for
the placement of the nodes. The design can be provided to a contractor, who can
install the nodes according to the design. In some instances, it can be difficult to
install the nodes according to the design. For example, the contractor may be
unable to physically place the nodes according to the design due to structural
elements of the area. As an example, a particular node may not be able to be
fixed to some structural elements such as a pipe or a tank.
                If a node cannot be placed according to the design, the contractor may
move the nodes in a trial and error method until the nodes can be physically
placed at a location of the area and/or until a requirement for the network has
been met with the new location. However, the trial and error method may result in
reduced effectiveness of the network of nodes, increased manual effort to plan a
node network, re-planning of the network topology design to provide proper
coverage, and/or may be time consuming.
                For instance, one or more nodes may be replaced in an incorrect position,
resulting in the network of nodes not functioning as anticipated. When the network

C:\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DER\17223039_.doex-27/06/2018
                                                                        -2
of nodes does not function as anticipated, distribution and/or collection of data by
the network of nodes can be affected. For instance, an incorrectly placed wireless
router can result in a location of the area not receiving a wireless signal and/or the
location of the area receiving a degraded wireless signal. Alternatively, and/or in
addition, data and/or images may not be collected from the area if a sensor and/or
camera is placed in an incorrect location.
                It is desired to address or ameliorate one or more disadvantages or
limitations associated with the prior art, or to at least provide a useful alternative.
                                                                     Summary
                In one embodiment, the present invention provides a method for node
placement planning, comprising:
                identifying a number of structural rules based on structural information of an
area utilizing a map displaying the structural information of the area;
                determining a placement for each node of a number of nodes of a node
network on the map of the area utilizing a node placement model;
                identifying a placement of a node among the number of nodes that deviates
from a structural rule among the number of structural rules, wherein the placement
of the node overlaps with a structural element such that the node cannot be
physically placed on for installation; and
                providing an indication of the node that deviates from the structural rule on
the map of the area notifying a user to revise the placement of the node in
response to a determination that a potential installation problem exists resulting
from the node deviating from a structural rule; and
                installing the number of nodes based on the map of the area with nodes
placed thereon and the revised placement of the node deviating from the structural
rule.
                                                         Brief Description of the Drawinqs
                Some embodiments are hereinafter described, by way of non-limiting

C:\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DER\17223039_.doex-27/06/2018
                                                                 -3
example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
                Figure 1 illustrates an example of a method for node placement planning in
accordance with one or more embodiments of the present disclosure.
                Figure 2 illustrates an example of a map of an area in accordance with one
or more embodiments of the present disclosure.
                Figure 3 illustrates a flow diagram of an example of a process for node
placement planning in accordance with one or more embodiments of the present
disclosure.
                Figure 4 illustrates an example of a map of an area in accordance with one
or more embodiments of the present disclosure.
                Figure 5 illustrates a block diagram of an example of a system in
accordance with one or more embodiments of the present disclosure.
                                                         Detailed Description
                Methods, systems, and computer-readable and executable instructions for
node placement planning are described herein. For example, one or more
embodiments can include identifying a number of structural rules for an area
utilizing a map of the area, determining a placement for each node of a number of
nodes of a node network on the map of the area utilizing a node placement model,
identifying a placement of a node among the number of nodes that deviates from a
structural rule among the number of structural rules, and providing an indication of
the node on the map of the area.
                As discussed herein, nodes can be placed at various places in an area to
distribute data and/or collect data. For example, a wireless router can be placed in
the area to distribute and/or collect data; a sensor (e.g., smoke detector) can be
placed in the area to collect data (e.g., data associated with a fire), and/or a
camera can be placed in the area to collect images for use in security monitoring.
Placement of the nodes can be important for proper distribution and/or collection
of data. In an example, an improper placement of a node can result in data not
being distributed and/or collected for a portion of the area.

C:\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DER\17223039_.doex-27/06/2018
                                                         -4
                For instance, if a first node is placed too far from a second node, data may
not be collected and/or distributed at a point that is between the first node and the
second node. Alternatively, and/or in addition, if a node is placed on a first side of
a wall, instead of a second side of the wall, data may not be collected and/or
distributed for areas that are located on a same side as the second side of the
wall.
                The nodes can be installed in particular positions according to a network
topology designed by a site survey team. The network topology can include a
defined layout of a network of nodes, for example. The defined layout of the
network of nodes can be a design that specifies where each node should be
installed so that data can be properly distributed and/or collected by each node. In
an example, the defined layout of the network of nodes can be designed by a
survey team. The design can then be used by a contractor, who can install the
nodes according to the design.
                However, in some instances, the contractor may be unable to install one or
more of the nodes according to the design due to structural elements of the area
(e.g., the site). For instance, particular types of nodes may be unable and/or
difficult to be physically placed on particular structural elements (e.g., pipes, walls,
etc.). The contractor may place the nodes at a nearby position, which can result in
a node that is placed in an incorrect position. As such, a performance of the
incorrectly installed node may not match an anticipated performance of the
designed network topology. In other instances, the contractor may notify the
survey team to redesign the layout of the network of nodes resulting in increased
time and cost to implement a node placement plan.
                In contrast, embodiments of the present disclosure include node placement
planning methods, systems, and computer-readable and executable instructions
that improve installation efficiency and reduce manual action as compared to
previous approaches. Node placement planning, in accordance with one or more
embodiments, can include importing a map of an area (e.g., the site) and
identifying structural information from the imported map. The structural

C:\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DER\17223039_.doex-27/06/2018
                                                         -5
information can include structural elements of the area (e.g., walls, pipes, ducts,
etc.). The structural information can be used, in various embodiments, to identify
a number of structural rules of the area that can be input into a node placement
model (e.g., a function to determine placement of a number of nodes at an area).
                For instance, structural rules can include computer-executable instructions
and/or logic that results in identification of a node that can be placed according to
a node placement plan and/or a node that cannot be placed according to the node
placement plan due to a structural element of the area (e.g., the node overlaps
with a structural element resulting in what may be a physically impossible and/or
difficult placement). A structural rule can, for instance, result in a set of actions to
perform in response to the outcome. In some instances, the structural rules can
each have a conventional two-part form: an if-part defining a condition and a then
part defining a conclusion or action that is asserted if the condition is satisfied.
                For instance, a node that cannot be placed according to the node
placement plan can have an indication provided that highlights the node on the
map of the area during the process of designing the node placement plan
according to a node placement model. A user can revise the location of the
highlighted node on the map and re-run the node placement model to ensure the
node placement plan complies with the structural rules and the resulting network
of nodes will properly function.
                These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those of
ordinary skill in the art to practice one or more embodiments of this disclosure. It
is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that process,
electrical, and/or structural changes may be made without departing from the
scope of the present disclosure.
                As will be appreciated, elements shown in the various embodiments herein
can be added, exchanged, combined, and/or eliminated so as to provide a number
of additional embodiments of the present disclosure. The proportion and the
relative scale of the elements provided in the figures are intended to illustrate the
embodiments of the present disclosure, and should not be taken in a limiting

C:\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DER\17223039_.doex-27/06/2018
                                                         -6
sense.
                The figures herein follow a numbering convention in which the first digit or
digits correspond to the drawing figure number and the remaining digits identify an
element or component in the drawing. Similar elements or components between
different figures may be identified by the use of similar digits.
                As used herein, "a" or "a number of" refers to one or more. For example, "a
number of nodes" can refer to one or more nodes. Additionally, the designator "P",
"Q", and "N"as used herein, particularly with respect to reference numerals in the
drawings, indicate that a number of the particular features so designed can be
included with a number of embodiments of the present disclosure.
                Figure 1 illustrates an example of a method for node placement planning in
accordance with one or more embodiments of the present disclosure. The method
100 can be used to identify nodes placed on a map of an area during node
placement planning that may be placed on a structural element that the nodes
cannot physically be placed on and/or it may be difficult to place the node on. The
identification of the potentially problematic node placement can occur and be
resolved during node placement planning.
                At block 102, the method 100 can include identifying a number of structural
rules of an area utilizing a map of the area. The area can include a particular site,
an indoor area (e.g., a home, a building, tunnel system), and/or an outdoor area
(e.g., a facility, multiple building complex, etc.), among other areas. The map can
include a map in an object readable format (e.g., a computer-aided design (CAD)
file, a Building Information Model (BIM) format), a map in a raster format (e.g.,
image/ Joint Photographic Experts Group (JPEG) format), and/or a map in three
dimensions (e.g., as discussed further with regards to Figure 4), among other
formats.
                The structural rules can be identified, for instance, using structural
information of the area. The structural information can include structural elements
and the physical placement (e.g., a location) of the structural elements in the area.
Structural elements can include objects and/or material. The structural

C:\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DER\17223039_.doex-27/06/2018
                                                         -7
information, in various examples, can be identified utilizing the map of the area.
                A number of techniques can be used to identify the structural information
based on the format of the map of the area. For instance, if the map includes an
object readable format, the structural information can be identified by extracting
the structural information from the object readable format. If the map includes a
raster format, the structural information can be identified by utilizing an automatic
tagging model (e.g., a function) to generate structural information by identifying the
structural elements in the map based on pattern matching (e.g., as discussed
further herein).
                Based on the structural information, the structural rules can be identified.
The structural rules can be used to identify a sub-set of nodes that cannot be
physically placed on and/or may be difficult to be physically placed on a number of
structural elements of the area. Alternatively and/or in addition, the structural rules
can be used to identify a sub-set of nodes that can be physically placed on a
number of structural elements of the area. That is, one or more types of nodes
may be unable to be installed (e.g., physically placed) on structural elements of
the area and one or more types of nodes may be able to be installed on at least
some types of structural elements of the area.
                At block 104, the method 100 can include determining a placement for each
node of a number of nodes of a node network on the map of the area utilizing a
node placement model. The node placement model can include a digital
representation of a function (e.g., an algorithm) that can be used to define a layout
of the network of nodes, for example. The defined layout of the network of nodes
can be a design that specifies where each node should be installed so that data
can be properly distributed and/or collected by each node. The node placement
model can be used to place the network of nodes on the map of the area to
provide sufficient coverage (e.g., such as radio frequency (RF) coverage).
                For instance, the nodes can be costly devices and so only a minimum
number of these devices should be deployed in the area (e.g., a plant, a facility, a
building). To solve this problem, the node placement model can compute the

C:\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DER\17223039_.doex-27/06/2018
                                                         -8
minimum number of nodes required to provide coverage in the desired area of
interest and at the same time enable mesh connectivity among the nodes. Along
with computing the minimum number of the nodes required, the node placement
model can determine the location where these nodes can be placed to provide
sufficient coverage.
                As an example, industrial plants can have mobile wireless nodes that can
roam throughout the area of the plant and need wireless connectivity irrespective
of their position. These wireless nodes can require that they communicate with a
central server in the plant. In such situations, there can be a need for deploying a
number of nodes so that the whole plant area, which may have an irregular shape,
is in the wireless coverage range of these nodes and also the nodes should be
able to form a mesh network to relay the information from the mobile wireless
nodes to the central server.
                The node placement model, in various embodiments, can include a
Minimum Node Connected Coverage (MNCC) algorithm, which can provide for
coverage of the area and connectivity by providing one path between any pair of
nodes. Alternatively, and/or in addition, some embodiments provide a Robust
Connected Coverage (RCC) algorithm, which can provide coverage for the area
and one path between any pair of nodes. In an example, the RCC algorithm can
achieve redundancy of more than one path between any pair of nodes and can
achieve redundancy in coverage.
                At block 106, the method 100 can include identifying a placement of a node
among the number of nodes that deviates from a structural rule among the number
of structural rules. Deviating from a structural rule can include, for instance,
placement of a node that overlaps with a structural element that the node cannot
and/or is difficult to be physically placed on during installation. In contrast, a node
that complies with a structural rule can include placement of a node that does not
overlap with a structural element and/or that overlaps with a structural element that
the node can physically be placed on during installation. In various embodiments,
more than one node may be identified as deviating from one or more structural

C:\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DER\17223039_.doex-27/06/2018
                                                         -9
rules.
                The identification of a node that deviates from a structural rule, in some
embodiments, can be based on the node placement model. For instance, the one
or more structural rules can be input into the node placement model. Using the
node placement model, the placement of the nodes of the node network can be
verified for compliance with the one or more input structural rules.
                At block 108, the method 100 can include providing an indication of the
node (e.g., the identified node) on the map of the area. The indication can include,
for instance, a visual indication provided on the map of the area. Example
indications can include a color indication that highlights the node on the map (e.g.,
a grey-scale, red, etc.) and/or a line surrounding the node on the map.
                In some embodiments, a different indication can be provided for a node that
is overlapping with a structural element of the area and complies with the number
of structural rules. The different indication can include a visual indication such as
a different color (e.g., green, a lighter and/or darker grey than the color indication
of the identified deviating node).
                Figure 2 illustrates an example of a map 210 of an area in accordance with
one or more embodiments of the present disclosure. The area can include an
indoor area, such as a home and/or other building.
                The area, as illustrated in the embodiment of Figure 2, can include multiple
sub-portions. A sub-portion can include a room that may have structural elements
that separate the sub-portion from other sub-portions of the area. Example sub
portions can include rooms (e.g., bedrooms, closets, bathrooms). Although the
present embodiment illustrates an indoor area as a single floor home,
embodiments in accordance with the present disclosure are not so limited. Indoor
areas in accordance with some embodiments of the present disclosure can include
multiple floors, an industrial factory, and/or an office building, among other indoor
areas.
                The map 210 of the area can be imported to a computing system to develop
a node placement plan. The map 210 of the area, as illustrated in Figure 2, can

C:\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DER\17223039_.doex-27/06/2018
                                                         -10
be calibrated with coordinates. Calibrating the map 210 with coordinates can
include adding real world coordinates to give the map dimensions and locations.
Dimensions and locations can include two-dimensional (2D) and/or three
dimensional (3D) coordinates (e.g., measurements) of sub-portions of the area,
elements, and/or objects associated with the area. Example dimensions can
include the Master Bedroom measuring 17 feet by 15 feet six inches.
                As illustrated by the embodiment of Figure 2, the map 210 of the area can
include structural information. The structural information can include identification
and placement of structural elements in the area. The structural information, in
some instances, may be extracted from the imported map 210. Alternatively
and/or in addition, structural information can be determined using the map 210 and
an automatic tagging model (e.g., as discussed further herein).
                The structural information can be utilized, for instance, to identify one or
more structural rules of the area. Each structural rule can be associated, for
instance, with a type of node and a type of structural elements. For example, a
type of node can include a classification of a node (e.g., a router) and a type of
structural element can include a classification of structure (e.g., a wall, a metal
pipe, and duct). Particular types of nodes may be unable to be physically placed
on particular types of structural elements (e.g., cannot be physically installed on
and/or it is difficult to be physically installed on). In contrast, particular types of
nodes may be able to be physically placed on particular types of structural
elements.
                For example, it may be difficult to physically place nodes such as a detector
device and a sounder device on walls, ducts (e.g., air conditioning duct), and/or
metal objects, among other structural elements. A camera device and/or manual
call point (MCP) device, in contrast, may be able to be physically placed on a wall
but it may be difficult to place the devices on a metal object, such as a tank and/or
pipe, among other structural elements.
                In various instances, the structural rules can include the location (e.g.,
coordinates) of the structural elements in the area, identification of the type of

C:\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DER\17223039_.doex-27/06/2018
                                                         - 11
structural element at each location, identification of types of nodes that cannot be
physically placed on particular types of structural elements, and/or identification of
types of nodes that can be placed on particular types of structural elements. The
one or more structural rules can be input, for instance, into a node placement
model.
                A node placement model can be utilized to determine a placement for each
node of a number of nodes 212-1, 212-2, 212-3, 212-4, 212-5, 212-6, 212-7.. .212
P (herein generally referred to as "the number of nodes 212") of a node network
on the map 210 of the area. The determined placement of the number of nodes
212 can be displayed on the map 210, as illustrated by Figured 2.
                The node placement model can be used to provide sufficient coverage to
the area with an increased efficiency. For instance, a theoretical lower limit of the
smallest number of nodes utilized to provide connectivity and coverage to the area
can be calculated. In an example, the efficiency of the MNCC and RCC algorithm
can be calculated by dividing the theoretical lower limit of the smallest number of
nodes required to provide connectivity and coverage to the area by the number of
nodes calculated by the MNCC and RCC algorithm. In an example, the MNCC
algorithm can provide coverage and connectivity to the area of interest with an
efficiency of 0.86 and the RCC algorithm can provide coverage and connectivity to
the area of interest with an efficiency of 0.71.
                In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure, the node
placement model with input one or more structural rules can be used to identify
placement of one or more nodes that deviates from one or more structural rules.
That is, the node placement model with input structural rules can be utilized to
verify compliance of the plan with the structural rules during design planning of the
node placements.
                In response to identifying one or more nodes deviate from (e.g., does not
comply) one or more structural rules, an indication of the node can be provided on
the map 210. For instance, the indication can include a first visual indication (e.g.,
first color indication and/or other visual indication to highlight the node on the

C:\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DER\17223039_.doex-27/06/2018
                                                         -12
map.) In some embodiments, a second indication, such as a second visual
indication, can be provided of a node on the map 210 that is located on the
structural element of the area and complies with the number of structural rules.
                As an example, node 212-2 can include a detector device (herein referred
to as "detector node 212-2"), node 212-5 can include a sounder device (e.g., an
alarm/noise making device) (herein referred to as "sounder node 212-5"), and
node 212-6 can include a MCP device (herein referred to as "MCP node 212-6").
The structural rules may identify that nodes of a type that includes a detector
and/or a sounder cannot be physically placed on particular types of structural
elements, such as walls, duct work, etc. Further, the structural rules may identify
that nodes of a type that includes an MCP device can be physically placed on
particular types of structural elements, such as walls, but cannot be placed on
other types of structural elements such as metal and/or duct work.
                By inputting the structural rules into the node placement model, in addition
to structural information (e.g., coordinates of the locations of the structural
elements and identification of types of structural elements), nodes that deviate
from a structural rule can be identified. The structural information can be input, for
instance, into the structural rules and/or the node placement model, in various
instances.
                Nodes that deviate from a structural rule can be indicated on the map 210,
such as with a visual indication. The visual indication can include a first visual
color indication that highlights the nodes. For instance, using the above provided
example, detector node 212-2 and sounder node 212-5 can be highlighted in a
first color. The first color can include a particular color (e.g., red) and/or grey-scale
shadow (e.g., a grey shadow surrounding the node). As illustrated by detector
node 212-2 and sounder node 212-5 in Figure 2, the visual indication can include
a line surrounding the nodes (e.g., as illustrated by the thick black line surrounding
detector node 212-2 and sounder node 212-5).
                A node that complies with the one or more structural rules can be indicated
on the map 210, such as with a visual indication, in some embodiments. The

C:\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DER\17223039_.doex-27/06/2018
                                                         -13
visual indication can include a second visual indication (e.g., such as a second
visual color indication). For instance, using the above provided example, the MCP
node 212-6 can be highlighted in a second color. The second color, in some
instances, can include a particular color (e.g., green) and/or a grey-scale color.
Alternatively and/or in addition, the second indication can include a line with
dashed lines surrounding the nodes (e.g., as illustrated by the black line with
dashed lines surrounding the MCP node 212-6).
                The indication of the identified node (e.g., a node identified as deviating
from a structure rule) can be used to bring the node and the potential installation
problem to a user's attention during designing of a node placement plan. The user
can revise the position (e.g. location of installation in the area) of the node. For
instance, in response to an input from the user, the position of the node on the
map 210 can be revised. The input can include the user selecting a new position.
In some embodiments, in response to a revised position, the node placement
model can be utilized to verify the revised position complies with the one or more
structural rules (e.g., as discussed further herein).
                Figure 3 illustrates a flow diagram of an example of a process for node
placement planning in accordance with one or more embodiments of the present
disclosure. The process can be utilized to design a node placement plan. The
node placement plan can avoid a number of installation issues by verifying nodes
are not placed on inappropriate structural elements of an area. The verification
can occur during the design process, thereby, preventing re-design and/or
inaccurate placement during installation.
                At block 330, a map of an area can be received. In various instances, the
map can be imported from a source to a computing system. The computing
system can include hardware and/or software components operable to design a
node placement plan.
                At block 332, structural information can be identified from the received map.
The identification can depend, for instance, on the format of the received map.
For example, a map in an object readable format can be used to identify the

C:\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DER\7223039_i.doex-27/06/2018
                                                         -14
structural information by extracting the structural information from the map.
                Alternatively, a map in a raster format (e.g., image and/or JPEG format) can
be used to generate structural information utilizing an automatic tagging model
(e.g., a function) that can identify structural elements based on pattern matching.
An automatic tagging model can identify structural elements in the map using
pattern recognition and can classify the structural elements into various known
classes based on a prior set of collected data (e.g., can identify the type of
structural element). Once similar structural elements are identified in the map,
they can be associated to a class of materials. Alternatively and/or in addition, a
tagging rule can be applied to the map to identify the structural elements.
                Furthermore, once the automatic tagging model is trained, the tagged
structural elements can be directly identified without user intervention. The user
can train the automatic tagging model by giving the shape and/or color of the
structural element as a class. The model can also use a previously trained set of
sequences, such as can be found in an Internet-based map (e.g., Google maps).
                In some embodiments, the automatic tagging model can be used with an
object readable format map (e.g., CAD and/or BIM format). The object readable
format can be used to identify structural information without using the automatic
tagging model by extracting the information. However, in some instances, the
automatic tagging model can be used in addition to the extracted information.
                At block 334, one or more structural rules can be determined using the
structural information. The structural information can based on, for instance,
identification of types of structural elements present, placement of the structural
elements, and/or types of nodes that cannot be placed on and/or it is difficult to be
placed on the particular types of structural elements. In some instances, a user
can assist in identifying the one or more structural rules by inputting the types of
nodes that cannot be placed on the particular types of structural elements.
                Alternatively and/or in addition, the input by the user can occur prior to
identifying the structural information. In such an instance, the input can include a
pre-defined identification and/or may include a variety of types of structural

C:\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DER\17223039_.doex-27/06/2018
                                                         -15
elements and types of nodes that may and/or may not be utilized in the node
placement plan.
                At block 336, the map can be calibrated with coordinates. The coordinates
can be associated with portions of the area, sub-portions of the area, and/or
structural elements of the area. At block 338, a number of nodes can be placed
on the calibrated map utilizing a node placement model (e.g., function).
                At block 340, utilizing the node placement model, the placement of nodes
can be verified for compliance with the one or more structural rules. Compliance
with the structural rules can include determining the nodes can be physically
placed where they are placed on the calibrated map (e.g., verify that the nodes
can be installed properly at the placement).
                A determination can be made, at block 342, whether all nodes of the node
network (e.g., the number of nodes) comply with the structural rules. At block 344,
in response to determining that not all of the nodes comply, an indication can be
provided on the map of non-complying nodes (e.g., one or more nodes that
deviate from one or more structural rules).
                The position of the non-comply nodes on the map can, at block 346, can be
revised. The revision can be in response to an input by a user, for instance.
Further, at block 340, the position of the number of nodes, including the revised
non-complying nodes, can be verified for compliance with structural rules.
                In response to determining that all nodes of the node network comply with
the structural rules, at block 348, the placement of the number of nodes of the
node network can be saved. In various embodiments, at block 350, a report can
be generated. The report can include identification of the placement of the
number of nodes at the area. The generated report can be, for instance, printed
and provided to a user.
                Figure 4 illustrates an example of a map 452 of an area in accordance with
one or more embodiments of the present disclosure. The area, as illustrated in
Figure 4, can include an outdoor area (e.g., an industrial plant). An outdoor area
can include an industrial plant, multiple buildings, and/or a park, among other

C:\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DER\17223039_.doex-27/06/2018
                                                         -16
outdoor areas.
                The height, altitude, and/or depth of a node can be important in some
context. For instance, a MCP device or a card reader may need to be reached by
a human user. Further, a camera device may need to capture an image of an
object and/or location of the area at a particular height. In such instances, the
map 452 can include a 3D map. That is, the map 452 can include an x-axis, a y
axis, and a z-axis (e.g., for depth). In such an instance, a calibrated map can
include coordinates added to the map 452 that include the x-axis values, y-axis
values, and z-axis values. Further, as discussed below, a node placement model
can consider z-axis values when placing nodes on the map 452 and/or with
structural elements.
                The map 452 illustrated by the embodiment of Figure 4 represents a 3D
view of a node system on the area of an industrial plant such as a refinery. The
map 452 can include many structural elements such as pipes, columns, stacks,
buildings, and stairs. Nodes 412-1, 412-2, 412-3, 412-4.. .412-Q (herein generally
referred to as "the number of nodes 412") can be placed on the map 452 during
node placement planning and are either installed and/or planned to be installed at
the area.
                During node placement planning, the structural elements can be identified
using the map 452 and can be used to identify one or more structural rules of the
area. The one or more structural rules of the area can include 3D coordinates
(e.g., x-axis, y-axis, and z-axis values) for each structural element. The structural
rules can be input into the node placement model.
                Using the node placement model, the number of nodes 412 can be placed
on the map 452 and the placement of the number of nodes 412 can be verified for
compliance with the number of structural rules. The placement and verification
can include compliance with 3D coordinates. For example, a particular node may
deviate from one or more rules by overlapping with the 3D coordinates of a
structural element that the particular node cannot physically be placed on.
Thereby, the determined placement of the number of nodes 412 (e.g., determined

C:\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DER\17223039_.doex-27/06/2018
                                                         -17
using the node placement model) can include 3D coordinates.
                A node that deviates from one or more structural rules can be indicated on
the map 452. The indication, as illustrated on Figure 4, can include a visual
indication (e.g., the line surrounding the node 412-2, a particular color, a grey
scale shadow, etc.) For example, node 412-2 can include a camera device
(herein referred to as "camera node 412-2"). Camera node 412-2 is placed on a
structural element (e.g., a pipe/a pipe line) that may be problematic to physically
place (e.g., install) the camera node 412-2 on. The determination that the camera
node 412-2 cannot be placed on the structural element includes consideration of
the z-axis value of the camera node 412-2 and the overlapping structural element
on the map 452 utilizing the node placement model (e.g., function), for example.
                A user may move the placement of the camera node 412-2 on the map 452
and the node placement model may be re-run to determine compliance of the
node network, including the revised placement of the camera node 412-2, with the
structural rules and/or to determine sufficient coverage of the area (e.g., such as
sufficient RF coverage).
                The re-run node placement model can include a verification process. For
instance, using the node placement model, the placement of the number of nodes
can be verified for compliance with the number of structural rules. The verification
can utilize z-axis coordinates (e.g., z-axis values) of the placement of the number
of nodes and the z-axis coordinates of the number of structural elements from the
identified structural information to verify compliance with the number of structural
rules and/or to verify sufficient node coverage of the area, such as sufficient RF
coverage.
                Figure 5 illustrates a block diagram of an example of a system 560 in
accordance with one or more embodiments of the present disclosure. As shown in
the embodiment of Figure 5, the system 560 includes a computer-readable
medium (CRM) 562 in communication with processing resources 570-1, 570
2.. .570-N.
                CRM 562 can be in communication with a device 568 (e.g., a Java@

C:\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DER\17223039_.doex-27/06/2018
                                                         -18
application server, a mobile device, among others) having processing resources
570-1, 570-2.. .570-N. The device 568 can be in communication with a tangible
non-transitory CRM 562 storing a set of computer-readable instructions (CRI) 564
executable by one or more of the processing resources 570-1, 570-2.. .570-N, as
described herein. The CRI 564 can also be stored in remote memory managed by
a server and represent an installation package that can be downloaded, installed,
and executed. The device 568 can include the memory resource 572, and the
processing resources 570-1, 570-2.. .570-N can be coupled to the memory
resource 572.
                Processing resources 570-1, 570-2.. .570-N can execute CRI 564 that can
be stored on an internal or external non-transitory CRM 562. The processing
resources 570-1, 570-2.. .570-N can execute CRI 564 to perform various functions.
For example, the processing resources 570-1, 570-2.. .570-N can execute CRI 564
to identify structural information of an area from an imported map of the area.
                A non-transitory CRM (e.g., CRM 562), as used herein, can include volatile
and/or non-volatile memory. Volatile memory can include memory that depends
upon power to store information, such as various types of dynamic random access
memory (DRAM), among others. Non-volatile memory can include memory that
does not depend upon power to store information. Examples of non-volatile
memory can include solid state media such as flash memory, electrically erasable
programmable read-only memory (EEPROM), phase change random access
memory (PCRAM), magnetic memory such as a hard disk, tape drives, floppy disk,
and/or tape memory, optical discs, digital versatile discs (DVD), Blu-ray discs
(BD), compact discs (CD), and/or a solid state drive (SSD), etc., as well as other
types of computer-readable media.
                The non-transitory CRM 562 can also include distributed storage media.
For example, the CRM 562 can be distributed among various locations.
                The non-transitory CRM 562 can be integral, or communicatively coupled,
to a computing device, in a wired and/or a wireless manner. For example, the
non-transitory CRM 562 can be an internal memory, a portable memory, a

C:\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DER\17223039_.doex-27/06/2018
                                                         -19
portable disk, or a memory associated with another computing resource (e.g.,
enabling CRIs to be transferred and/or executed across a network such as the
Internet).
                The CRM 562 can be in communication with the processing resources 570
1, 570-2.. .570-N via a communication path 566. The communication path 566 can
be local or remote to a machine (e.g., a computer) associated with the processing
resources 570-1, 570-2.. .570-N. Examples of a local communication path 566
can include an electronic bus internal to a machine (e.g., a computer) where the
CRM 562 is one of volatile, non-volatile, fixed, and/or removable storage medium
in communication with the processing resources 570-1, 570-2.. .570-N via the
electronic bus. Examples of such electronic buses can include Industry Standard
Architecture (ISA), Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI), Advanced
Technology Attachment (ATA), Small Computer System Interface (SCSI),
Universal Serial Bus (USB), among other types of electronic buses and variants
thereof.
                The communication path 566 can be such that the CRM 562 is remote from
the processing resources e.g., 570-1, 570-2.. .570-N such as in a network
relationship between the CRM 562 and the processing resources (e.g., 570-1,
570-2.. .570-N). That is, the communication path 566 can be a network
relationship. Examples of such a network relationship can include a local area
network (LAN), wide area network (WAN), personal area network (PAN), and the
Internet, among others. In such examples, the CRM 562 can be associated with a
first computing device and the processing resources 570-1, 570-2.. .570-N can be
associated with a second computing device (e.g., a Java@ server, a mobile
device, etc.). For example, a processing resource 570-1, 570-2.. .570-N can be in
communication with a CRM 562, wherein the CRM 562 includes a set of
instructions and wherein the processing resource 570-1, 570-2.. .570-N is
designed to carry out the set of instructions to perform node placement planning.
                Processing resources 570-1, 570-2.. .570-N coupled to the memory
resource 572 can identify structural information of an area from an imported map

C:\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DER\17223039_.doex-27/06/2018
                                                         - 20
of the area. The structural information can be identified, for instance, by extracting
the information from the file of the map and/or by performing automatic tagging.
                For instance, the processing resources 570-1, 570-2.. .570-N coupled to the
memory resource 572 can input a number of structural rules of the area into a
node placement model utilizing the identified structural information. In various
embodiments, the number of structural rules can be determined, for instance,
based on the structural information and/or identification of types of nodes that
cannot be placed on types of structural elements. The identification of types of
nodes that cannot be placed on types of structural elements can be input by a user
during node placement planning and/or can be pre-defined (e.g., such as a pre
defined list that is input).
                The processing resources 570-1, 570-2.. .570-N coupled to the memory
resource 572 can calibrate the map with coordinates. The calibration can include
real world dimensions added to the map. Further, the processing resources 570
1, 570-2... 570-N coupled to the memory resource 572 can place each node of a
number of nodes of a node network on the calibrated map of the area utilizing the
node placement model.
                The processing resources 570-1, 570-2.. .570-N coupled to the memory
resource 572 can verify the placement of each of the number of nodes of the node
network complies with the number of structural rules including: identify a
placement of a node among the number of nodes that deviates from a structural
rule among the number of structural rules, provide an indication of the node on the
map, and revise the placement of the node on the map in response to an input
from a user.
                In various embodiments of the present disclosure, the processing resources
570-1, 570-2.. .570-N coupled to the memory resource 572 can verify the revised
placement of the node complies with the number of structural rules utilizing the
node placement model. In some embodiments, the verification can include
identifying the placement of each of the number of nodes, including the revised
placement of the node, complies with the number of structural rules and/or

C:\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DER\17223039_.doex-27/06/2018
                                                         - 21
provides sufficient coverage of the area.
                In accordance with some embodiments of the present disclosure, the
processing resources 570-1, 570-2.. .570-N coupled to the memory resource 572
can save the placement of each of the number of nodes in response to identifying
the placement of each of the number of nodes, including the revised placement of
the node, complies with the number of structural rules. Further, the processing
resources 570-1, 570-2.. .570-N coupled to the memory resource 572 can
generate a report of the placement of each of the number of nodes, including the
revised placement of the node.
                In various embodiments of the present disclosure, the system can include
one or more input devices. A user may enter commands and information into the
system through the input devices. Example input devices can include a keyboard,
mouse and/or other point device, touch screen, microphone, joystick, game pad,
scanner, etc. The input devices can be connected to the system through an
interface, such as a parallel port, game port, or a universal serial bus (USB). A
monitor or other type of display device can also be connected to the system via an
interface, such as a video adapter. The monitor can display graphical user
information for the user.
                Any of the above information, data, and/or images can be saved along with
the plurality of images as metadata and/or a data file which can be available for
later image processing and/or other purposes.
                As used herein, "logic" is an alternative or additional processing resource to
execute the actions and/or functions, etc., described herein, which includes
hardware (e.g., various forms of transistor logic, application specific integrated
circuits (ASICs), etc.), as opposed to computer executable instructions (e.g.,
software, firmware, etc.) stored in memory and executable by a processor.
                Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein,
those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that any arrangement calculated to
achieve the same techniques can be substituted for the specific embodiments
shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations

C:\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DER\17223039_.doex-27/06/2018
                                                         - 22
of various embodiments of the disclosure.
                It is to be understood that the above description has been made in an
illustrative fashion, and not a restrictive one. Combination of the above
embodiments, and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be
apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.
                The scope of the various embodiments of the disclosure includes any other
applications in which the above structures and methods are used. Therefore, the
scope of various embodiments of the disclosure should be determined with
reference to the appended claims, along with the full range of equivalents to which
such claims are entitled.
                In the foregoing Detailed Description, various features are grouped together
in example embodiments illustrated in the figures for the purpose of streamlining
the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an
intention that the embodiments of the disclosure require more features than are
expressly recited in each claim.
                Rather, as the following claims reflect, inventive subject matter may lie in
less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus, the following claims
are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description, with each claim standing on
its own as a separate embodiment.
                Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the
context requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as
"comprises" and "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated
integer or step or group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other
integer or step or group of integers or steps.
                The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information
derived from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken
as an acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that that prior
publication (or information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the
common general knowledge in the field of endeavour to which this specification
relates.

C:\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DER\17223039_.doex-27/06/2018
                                                         - 23
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVNETION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.              A method for node placement planning, comprising:
                identifying a number of structural rules based on structural information of an
area utilizing a map displaying the structural information of the area;
                determining a placement for each node of a number of nodes of a node
network on the map of the area utilizing a node placement model;
                identifying a placement of a node among the number of nodes that deviates
from a structural rule among the number of structural rules, wherein the placement
of the node overlaps with a structural element such that the node cannot be
physically placed on for installation; and
                providing an indication of the node that deviates from the structural rule on
the map of the area notifying a user to revise the placement of the node in
response to a determination that a potential installation problem exists resulting
from the node deviating from a structural rule; and
                installing the number of nodes based on the map of the area with nodes
placed thereon and the revised placement of the node deviating from the structural
rule.
2.              The method of claim 1, wherein providing the indication includes providing a
visual indication on the map.
3.              The method of claim 1, including identifying a sub-set of the number of
nodes that deviate from at least one of the structural rules.
4.              The method of claim 1, including providing a different indication of a node
among the number of nodes that is overlapping with a structural element of the
area and complies with the number of structural rules.

C:\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\DER\17223039_.doex-27/06/2018
                                                         - 24
5.              The method of claim 1, wherein identifying the number of structural rules
includes identifying a sub-set of nodes that can be physically placed on a number
of structural elements of the area.
6.              The method of claim 1, wherein identifying the number of structural rules
includes identifying a sub-set of nodes that cannot be physically placed on a
number of structural elements of the area.
7.              The method of claim 6, wherein:
                identifying the placement of the node deviates from the structural rule
includes identifying the node is overlapping with a structural element among the
number structural elements that the node cannot be physically placed on; and
                wherein the node is among the sub-set of nodes.
8.              The method of claim 1, including calibrating the map with real world
dimensions.
9.              The method of claim 1, including revising the placement of the node on the
map in response to an input from a user.
10.             The method of claim 9, including identifying the placement of each of the
number of a nodes, including the revised placement of the node, complies with the
number of structural rules.

<removed-date>
                                         1/5
<removed-apn>
               IDENTIFYING A NUMBER OF STRUCTURAL RULES OF AN AREA
                             UTILIZING A MAP OF THE AREA
              DETERMINING A PLACEMENT FOR EACH NODE OF A NUMBER OF
                 NODES OF A NODE NETWORK ON THE MAP OF THE AREA
                        UTILIZING A NODE PLACEMENT MODEL
              IDENTIFYING A PLACEMENT OF A NODE AMONG THE NUMBER OF
              NODES THAT DEVIATES FROM A STRUCTURAL RULE AMONG THE
                            NUMBER OF STRUCTURAL RULES
              PROVIDING AN INDICATION OF THE NODE ON THE MAP OF THE
                                       AREA
                                     Fig. 1

<removed-date>
                                             2/5
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                            212-3
                                                              212-2
                                                                4,4414,                        IP
                                                                                               e
                                                                                                  ..
                                                                                                     
                                                                           MM.
                                               0; 11.2. Lit
                                Kip"' -`*z-p 
                                    OP.;.1
                212-4
                                                                             212-5
                                                                     nig
                                                                                                          212-6
                                                                                                     ()
              ) 212-7                                                                                        212-P
                        NI- 1E: I                                  aIII OM PIS   KAI   I t"242O..113.4
                                             Fig. 2

<removed-date>
                                             3/5
                                                                                     -330
                                                             RECEIVE MAP
<removed-apn>
                                                          IDENTIFY STRUCTURAL
                                                                                       332
                                                            INFORMATION FROM
                                                                 THE MAP
                                                         DETERMINE STRUCTURAL
                                                                                       334
                                                            RULES USING THE
                                                        STRUCTURAL INFORMATION
                                                          CALIBRATE MAP WITH           336
                                                             COORDINATES
                                                          PLACE NODES ON THE           338
                                                            CALIBRATED MAP
                                                                  Y
                     REVISE LOCATION OF
              346                                       VERIFY COMPLIANCES WITH -340
                       NON-COMPLYING
                                                           STRUCTURAL RULES
                     NODES ON THE MAP
              344   PROVIDE INDICATION ON          NO                          342
                        MAP OF NON-
                      COMPLYING NODES
                                                                 SAVE          h-348
                                                           GENERATE REPORT h--350
                                            Fig. 3

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                        452 --ik
                                   4/5
Fig. 4

<removed-date>
                                  5/5
              560
                          562                    568
<removed-apn>
                           e                      e
                    CRM                  PROCESSOR     h-570-1
                                 566
                                         PROCESSOR 1-..,570-2
                                         PROCESSOR 1-----570-N
                    CRI   564             MEMORY --,--572
                                Fig. 5

