                                              - 30
                         HEADGEAR, INTERFACE AND AN ASSEMBLY
                               ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
          This invention relates to a headgear component as a part of a headgear. The
   component comprising a backstrap, a first ear loop extending from one end of the
 5 backstrap, the first ear loop following a path defining a first ear opening, and a second
   ear loop extending from another end of the backstrap, the second ear loop following a
   path defining a second ear opening.     A first pair of connection zones is on the first ear
   loop, each connection zone spaced an equal distance from the backstrap and spaced from
   each other, and a second pair of connection zones on the second ear loop, each
10 connection zone spaced an equal distance apart from the backstrap and spaced from
   each other. A connection zone of the first pair and a connection zone of the second pair
   are on a first side of the backstrap, and a connection zone of the first pair and a
   connection zone of the second pair are on a second (other) side of the backstrap, wherein
   the headgear component is substantially of a symmetrical shape.
15
           Figure to accompany abstract: 2

WO 2013/172719          PCT/NZ2013/000082
                  1/10
                              3
                                 8,9,15
                                        2
               FIGURE 1

                                                - 1
                          HEADGEAR, INTERFACE AND AN ASSEMBLY
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
           [0001]     The present invention generally relates to components for medical
   systems for conveying gases to and/or from a patient.           In one particular aspect, the
 5 invention relates to headgear, a patient interface, or an assembly of headgear and a
   patient interface as part of a medical system for conveying breathable gases to and/or
   from a patient or as part of a breathing system.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
10         [0002]     Alternative and improved retention systems for positioning, such as
   fixed positioning, of gas delivery interface systems, such as masks, nasal cannula or
   other oronasal gas delivery interface units, for a user of the interface are always being
   sought.
           [0003]     Typically, in infant applications, due to the size of the head of the
15 infant, adhesive patches or other dermal connection systems are used to position such
   gas delivery interfaces. For example, adhesive tape is applied over the tube or part of a
   nasal cannula to hold the cannula in place or an operation position on the infant's face.
   This causes a number of problems, such as skin reactions, skin abrasion, or breakdown
   when tape is repeatedly applied and removed, especially when an infant is being cycled
20 between different types of gas therapy.
           [0004]     Many     complex     systems,   including   elasticised   straps,  buckles,
   tensioners, and other such retaining systems, are utilised in holding or positioning of user
   interfaces on the face or in preferred installation positions on a user. Therefore, a system
   for improved ease of application or installation of such interfaces for a user, such as by
25 the user or by a carer of the user are desirable.       Ease of being able to cycle between
   different treatment therapies would also be desirable, especially also reducing the need
   for handling of a user's head or applying and re-applying adhesives, glues, or tapes to
   the face of the user for positioning of a gas delivery interface in an operational position.
           [0005]     Further, stresses applied to the head of a user from various complex
30 headgears may result in stress sores or contact abrasion.          Therefore, minimising the
   overall stresses applied to the head of a user is also desirable.      Stresses applied to the
   head or face of a user, depending on where tension is exerted from such more complex
   headgear arrangements, can sometimes result in "snub nosing". The likelihood of snub
   nosing preferably is reduced or eliminated.
35         [0006]     In this specification, any references to other patent specifications, other
   external documents, or other sources of information are generally for the purpose of
   providing a context for discussing the features of the invention. Unless specifically stated
   otherwise, reference to such external documents is not to be construed as an admission

                                               - 2
   that such documents, or such sources of information, in any jurisdiction, are prior art, or
   form part of the common general knowledge in the art.
           [0007]     Further aspects and advantages of the present invention will become
   apparent from the ensuing description, which is given by way of example only.
 5
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
           [0008]     It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a headgear
   and/or an interface, or an assembly of both a headgear and an interface, which will go at
   least some way towards addressing the foregoing problems or which will at least provide
10 the public with a useful choice.
           [0009]     In a first aspect, the present invention may broadly comprise a
   headgear comprising
           a semi-rigid frame engageable with the head of a user, and
           a releasable connection system for releasable connection with a user interface.
15         [0010]     In a further aspect, the present invention may broadly comprise a
   headgear comprising
           a semi-rigid frame engageable with the head of a user,
           a releasable connection system for releasable connection with a user interface,
   wherein
20         the frame extends generally about a rear region of a user's head, generally about
   an upper region of a user's head, and generally about an ear or both ears of a user.
           [0011]     In one embodiment the releasable connection system may be provided
   on or about a region of the frame extending generally about the ear or ears of the user.
   In another embodiment the releasable connection system may be provided on or about a
25 region of the frame extending generally in front of the ear or ears of the user. In another
   embodiment the releasable connection system may be provided as a region at or in front
   of the ear or ears of a user.
           [0012]     Preferably the releasable      connection system    may be a two-part
   connector system. More preferably, a first connector part or portion may be provided by,
30 or on, a region of the headgear, and a second connector part or portion may be provided
   by, or on, a region of (or in attachment or connection with) a user interface.
           [0013]     In one embodiment the first connector part or portion is one of a hook
   or a loop of a hook and loop type fastener system, and the second connector part or
   portion is the other of a loop or a hook for the hook and loop type fastener system.
35         [0014]     In another embodiment the two-part connector system is a system of
   magnets.     Preferably the first connector part or portion is a first magnet or series of
   magnets, and the second connector part or portion is the other or a second magnet or
   series of magnets (e.g. such as a magnet or magnets of opposite polarity to the first
   magnet or series of magnets).

                                               - 3
            [0015]   In another embodiment, the two-part connector system is a snap-dome
   connection system.
            [0016]   In another embodiment, the two-part connector system may                  be
   provided by a two-part adhesive, where the first connector part or portion is provided
 5 with an adhesive that is receivable by the second part or portion, or where the second
   connector part or portion is provided with an adhesive that is receivable by the first part
   or portion, or where the first part or portion provides for the first of a two-part adhesive,
   and the second part or portion provides for the second of a two-part adhesive, whereby
   the bringing together of the first and second parts        or portions facilitates or enables
10 adhesion between the two parts. Advantageously, the parts are releasably adherable to
   each other.
            [0017]   Preferably the first part comprises an adhesive and the second part is
   receivable of the adhesive or bondable with the adhesive, or the second part comprises
   an adhesive and the first part is receivable of the adhesive or bondable with the
15 adhesive, or both the first and second parts comprise an adhesive or one part of a two
   part adhesive. Optionally, such an adhesive is a releasable adhesive system, or is a non
   permanent binding or bonding together of adhesive or adhesive receiver parts.
            [0018]   Preferably, the user interface may be a gas delivery system or a gas
   delivery device.   More preferably the user interface may be a device for supplying of
20 breathable gas to a user.         Preferably the user interface may be any one or any
   combination of: mask, nasal cannula, oronasal device.        Preferably the interface may be
   connectable to a breathing tube.
            [0019]   In one embodiment the releasable connection system may be of a
   substantially low or flat profile. In another embodiment the releasable connection system
25 may be of a substantially similar profile to the profile of the frame. Preferably the profile
   is generally substantially planar or substantially flat (for example, may be planar or flat
   in profile).
            [0020]   Preferably the releasable connection system may be an interference
   attachment system.      More preferably the interference attachment system provides for
30 connection or connectability between a user interface (or a part thereof, or a part
   connected or attached to a user interface) and one or more of:
           the headgear region extending generally about the ear or ears of a user,
           the headgear region extending generally in front of the ear or ears of a user,
           the headgear region at or in front of the ear or ears of a user.
35          [0021]   Preferably the interference attachment system may be a two-part
   connector system as defined above.
            [0022]   In    one    preferred   embodiment,    advantageously,     the   releasable
   connection system does not utilise pulley strap systems or buckles. Pulley or buckle type
   systems can impact on a user's face, particularly an infant face. For example, application

                                               -4
   of a connection or retention system too tightly on a user's face may contribute to so
   called "snub nosing", such as when forces are applied to the nose, septum or philtrum.
           [0023]     Preferably   the  releasable   connection     system   enables  connection
   between a user interface and the headgear, whilst reducing the likelihood of the
 5 application of tension during installation of the user interface to a user in combination
   with the headgear.
           [0024]     Preferably the releasable connection system reduces the likelihood of
   the need for application of adhesive, or adhesive tape, to a user's skin for the installation
   and placement of a user interface into an operational position, or may reduce the
10 likelihood of the application of adhesive to a user's skin in installation or adhesive applied
   to a user's skin for connection of a user interface.
           [0025]     Preferably the frame extending generally about the ears of the user
   may partially or wholly surround or encircle one or both ears. More preferably the frame
   extending about the ear or ears of a user is a loop about an, or each, ear of the user.
15         [0026]     Preferably the headgear may be adjustable.
           [0027]     Preferably the headgear may be provided in a ready-to-receive mode
   for receiving the head of a user and/or connecting with or connectable to/with a user
   interface (or a part or portion thereof).
           [0028]     Preferably the headgear may be provided in a ready-to-receive mode
20 for receiving a user interface (or a part of a portion thereof).
           [0029]     Preferably the headgear may be adjustable for fitment to a user's head,
   such as for anatomical adjustment.
           [0030]     Preferably the headgear may be adjustable for different user head
   sizes.
25         [0031]     Preferably the headgear may be adjustable for varying the distance the
   frame extends between the rear region (or region above the nape of a user's neck) and
   the portion of the frame that extends generally about the ear or ears of a user.
           [0032]     Preferably the headgear may be adjustable for varying the distance the
   frame extends between the upper region (or top) of a user's head and the portion of the
30 frame that extends generally about the ear of ears of a user.
           [0033]     Preferably the frame extending generally about the ear or ears of a user
   may be adjustable, more preferably the loop about an, or each ear of the user, may be
   adjustable, such as adjustable by the size of the loop provided for encircling partially or
   wholly the ear or ears of a user.
35         [0034]     Preferably the frame may include an adjustment strap or straps.
   Preferably the adjustment strap or one of the adjustment straps may be a part of the
   frame positionable generally about the upper region (or top) of the user's head.
   Alternatively the adjustment strap or one of the adjustment straps may be a part of the
   frame positionable generally about the rear region (or region above the nape of the user's

                                                 - 5
   neck).    More preferably the adjustment straps may be both a part of the frame
   positionable generally about the upper region (or top) of the user's head and the frame
   positionable generally about the rear region (or above the nape region of the user's
   neck).
 5         [0035]      Preferably the adjustment strap or straps may be of a hook and loop
   type fastener system for adjustable fastening. More preferably, or alternatively, the
   adjustment strap or straps comprise or include a buckle arrangement,                where an
   adjustment strap is insertable through a buckle.
           [0036]      Preferably the rear region may be a lower rear region of the user's
10 head.   More preferably the rear region may be a region above the nape of the user's
   neck.
           [0037]      Preferably the upper region may be a region about the top of a user's
   head.
           [0038]      Preferably the frame is formed of or from a semi-rigid material.
15         [0039]      Preferably the frame is of a self-sustaining shape.
           [0040]      Preferably the frame is supportive of an interface which may be
   connected thereto.
           [0041]      Preferably the frame is provided as one-piece or as a single part article
   or is a unitary piece of headgear. For example, the frame preferably is not provided by
20 multiple straps or multiple parts that must be assembled or connected together to
   provide the semi-rigid headgear.
           [0042]      Preferably the semi-rigid frame may be of a substantially non-elastic
   construction or substantially non-elastic material.
           [0043]      Preferably the frame may be of a substantially self-supporting shape
25 and/or configuration.
           [0044]      Preferably the frame forms a semi-rigid frame about the head of a user.
           [0045]      Preferably the frame is supportive of an interface which may be
   connected thereto.
           [0046]      Preferably the frame provides a substantially self-supporting frame to
30 which a user interface (or a part thereof, or a part connected or attached to a user
   interface) may be connectable and supported in-situ therefrom.
           [0047]      Preferably the     releasable connection    system may     be capable of
   supporting shear and/or pull forces that may be imparted from connection of a user
   interface.
35         [0048]      Preferably the frame may be of a substantially planar or substantially
   flat profile, the planar or flat profile generally contoured for planar or flat contact with a
   user's head.
           [0049]      Preferably the frame may be of a non-frayable woven material or fabric.

                                                - 6
           [0050]     Preferably the frame may be of a non-woven              material or fabric,
   alternatively may be of a semi-rigid polymer.
           [0051]     Preferably   the   frame     may    be  formed    of  a  thermoplastic   or
   thermosetting polymeric material or composites therefrom.        Alternatively, the frame may
 5 be formed of or from a weldable polymeric material.
           [0052]     Preferably the frame may be formed from a polyethylene terephthalate
   (PET), a polyethylene (PE), or polyester.
           [0053]     Preferably the frame may be formed from a non-woven polyethylene
   terephthalate    (PET)/   polyethylene    (PE)    laminated   composite,   or    a  non-woven
10 PET/polyester laminated composite.
           [0054]     Preferably the headgear, or user interface, or both, are for an infant.
   More preferably, the headgear, or user interface, or both, are sized or designed for an
   infant.
           [0055]     In a further aspect, the present invention may broadly comprise a user
15 interface comprising adapted for use with the headgear of the above aspects.
           [0056]     In a further aspect, the present invention may broadly comprise a user
   interface of the above aspect comprising:
           a user interfacing part or portion, and
           releasable connection system part or portion for releasable connection with a
20 headgear connectable part or portion.
           [0057]     Preferably the releasable connection system part of portion may be
   provided by, or on, a region of (or in attachment or connection with) the user interface.
           [0058]     Preferably the releasable connection system part or portion may be
   integral with the user interfacing part or portion or may be over-moulded with the user
25 interfacing part or portion.
           [0059]     Preferably the releasable connection system may form a backing or a
   substrate to which the user interface is attached or connected or connectable thereto.
           [0060]     Preferably, the user interface is provided with one or a pair (or more) of
   parts or portions connectable with the headgear.          More preferably, a pair of parts or
30 portions extend from a user interface for connection with the headgear.
           [0061]     Preferably the headgear connectable part or portion is substantially
   non-elastic.
           [0062]     Preferably the releasable connection system part or portion forms one
   part of a two-part connection system.            More preferably the other of the two-part
35 connection system may be provided by the frame (or headgear) ad defined above.
           [0063]     Preferably the releasable connection system may be a strip or a strap or
   a length of a connector part of the connection system. More preferably the strip or strap
   or length extends to be connectable to, or on, or about a region of, the frame (or
   headgear) as defined above.

           [0064]     As discussed above, in one preferred embodiment, advantageously, the
   releasable connection system does not utilise pulley strap systems or buckles. Pulley or
   buckle type systems can impact on a user's face, particularly an infant face.               For
   example, application of a connection or retention system too tightly on a user's face may
 5 contribute to so-called "snub nosing", such as when forces are applied to the nose,
   septum or philtrum.
           [0065]     Preferably   the    releasable  connection    system   enables   connection
   between a user interface and the headgear, whilst reducing the likelihood of the
   application of tension during installation of the user interface to a user in combination
10 with the headgear.
           [0066]     Preferably, a first connector portion may be provided by, or on, a region
   of headgear (as defined above), and a second connector portion may be provided by, or
   on, a region of (or in attachment or connection with) the user interface.
           [0067]     In one embodiment the releasable connection system part or portion of
15 the user interface may be of a substantially low profile.         In another embodiment the
   releasable connection system part of portion of the user interface may be of a
   substantially similar profile to the profile of the frame. Preferably the profile is generally
   substantially planar or substantially flat (e.g. in profile).
           [0068]     Preferably the releasable connection system part or portion of the user
20 interface may be an interference attachment system.           More preferably the interference
   attachment system part or portion provides for connection or connectability between the
   user interface (or a part thereof, or a part connected or attached to a user interface) and
   one or more of:
           the headgear region extending generally about the ear or ears of a user,
25         the headgear region extending generally in front of the ear or ears of a user,
           the headgear region at or in front of the ear or ears of a user.
           [0069]     Preferably the interference attachment system may be a two-part
   connector system as defined above.
           [0070]     Preferably, the user interface may be a gas delivery system or a gas
30 delivery device.    More preferably the user interface may be a device for supplying of
   breathable gas to a user.         Preferably the user interface may be any one or any
   combination of: mask, nasal cannula, oronasal device.
           [0071]     Preferably the user interface       is held in a substantially fixed or
   operational position when in connection with the headgear.
35         [0072]     Preferably the user interface is held in a substantially secure fixed or
   operational position when in connection with the headgear.
           [0073]     Preferably the interface may be connectable to a breathing tube.

                                               -8
           [0074]     Preferably the headgear, or user interface, or both, are for an infant.
   More preferably, the headgear, or user interface, or both, are sized or designed for an
   infant.
           [0075]     In a further aspect, the present invention may broadly comprise an
 5 assembly comprising:
           a headgear, the headgear as defined above, and
           a user interface, the user interface as defined above,
           the headgear and user interface releasably connectable to each other.
           [0076]     Preferably the headgear is supportive of the user interface in an in-situ
10 or installed in-use position with or on a user of the interface.
           [0077]     Preferably the headgear may comprise a first part of a two-part
   releasable connection system, and the user interface or a region of (or in attachment or
   connection with) the user interface comprises a second of the two-part releasable
   connection system.      More preferably, the first and second parts may be releasably
15 connectable for retaining of the interface in a user in-use position, or configuration.
           [0078]     In one embodiment the first part is one of a hook or a loop of a hook
   and loop type fastener system, and the second part is the other of a loop or a hook for
   the hook and loop type fastener system.
           [0079]     In another embodiment the two-part connector system is a system of
20 magnets.     Preferably the first connector part or portion is a first magnet or series of
   magnets, and the second connector part or portion is the other or a second magnet or
   series of magnets (e.g. such as magnets of opposite polarity to the first magnet or series
   of magnets).
           [0080]     In another embodiment, the two-part connector system may                 be
25 provided by a two-part adhesive, where the first connector part or portion is provided
   with an adhesive that is receivable by the second part or portion, or where the second
   connector part or portion is provided with an adhesive that is receivable by the first part
   or portion, or where the first part or portion provides for the first of a two-part adhesive,
   and the second part or portion provides for the second of a two-part adhesive, whereby
30 the bringing together of the first and second parts         or portions facilitates or enables
   adhesion between the two parts. Advantageously, the parts are releasably adherable to
   each other.
           [0081]     Preferably the first part comprises an adhesive and the second part is
   receivable of the adhesive or bondable with the adhesive, or the second part comprises
35 an adhesive and the first part is receivable of the adhesive or bondable with the
   adhesive, or the both the first and second parts comprises an adhesive or one part of a
   two-part adhesive. Optionally, such an adhesive is a releasable adhesive system, or is a
   non-permanent binding or bonding together of adhesive or adhesive receiver parts.
           [0082]     Preferably the interface may be connectable to a breathing tube.

                                                -9
            [0083]      Preferably the headgear, or user interface, or both, are for an infant.
   More preferably, the headgear, or user interface, or both, are sized or designed for an
   infant.
            [0084]      The headgear and/or user interface of this invention may be utilised in
 5 combination or conjunction with any one or more of the inventions described in
   PCT/NZ2011/000218, the contents of which is herein incorporated by reference.
            [0085]      In yet a further aspect of the invention, there is provided a headgear
   component as a part of a headgear comprising:
            a backstrap,
10          a first ear loop extending from one end of the backstrap, the first ear loop
   following a path defining a first ear opening,
            a second ear loop extending from another end of the backstrap, the second ear
   loop following a path defining a second ear opening,
            a first pair of connection zones on the first ear loop, each connection zone spaced
15 an equal distance from the backstrap and spaced from each other,
            a second pair of connection zones on the second ear loop, each connection zone
   spaced an equal distance apart from the backstrap and spaced from each other,
            a connection zone of the first pair and a connection zone of the second pair are on
   a first side of the backstrap, and a connection zone of the first pair and a connection zone
20 of the second pair are on a second (other) side of the backstrap, wherein the headgear
   component is substantially of a symmetrical shape.
            [0086]      Preferably the backstrap is adapted to cross behind the head below the
   occiput or occipital bone.
            [0087]      Preferably the headgear component is symmetrical along a first plane
25 and a second plane.
            [0088]      Preferably the first plane corresponds with the sagittal plane of the
   user, and the second plane corresponds with the transverse plane of the user.
            [0089]      Preferably the headgear component is symmetrical along a third plane.
            [0090]      Preferably the third plane corresponds with the coronal plane of the
30 user.
            [0091]      Preferably   the  headgear   component      is symmetrical   about  the
   backstrap.
            [0092]      Preferably each strap includes projecting portions, and the connection
   zones are located on the projecting portions.
35          [0093]      Preferably the headgear component is a flat web of a material, the web
   being bendable but substantially non-extensible.
            [0094]      Preferably the headgear component is reversible so that each face of
   the web is of a material that may comfortably contact the user.

                                                - 10
            [0095]     Preferably the headgear component is a flat web of a material, and
   each connection zone includes a component of a releasable fastening system on both the
   first and second sides of the web of material.
            [0096]     Preferably a top strap comprising a first end and second end, may have
 5 the first end releasably fastened to one of the first pair of connection zones presently
   outwardly, and the second end releasably fastened to one of the second pair of
   connection zones presented outwardly, the top strap extending substantially across an
   upper region or top of a user's head.
            [0097]     Preferably connection zones are provided on both faces of the headgear
10 component.
            [0098]     Preferably the headgear component includes one or more rigidising
   members in the backstrap.
            [0099]     Preferably said rigidising member comprises one or more of copper
   wire, a copper piece or strap or strip, aluminium wire, aluminium piece or strap or strip,
15 ductile or conformable plastics.
            [0100]     Preferably the shapes and relative positioning of the backstrap, the ear
   loops, and the connection zones, being such that
           in a first mode of use, the backstrap crosses behind the head below the occiput or
   occipital bone, an ear loop is disposed around each ear, the connection zones to the first
20 side of the backstrap presenting outwardly from a user's head, and the connection zones
   on the second side of the backstrap presenting inwardly toward a user's head,
           and in a second mode of use, the backstrap crosses behind the head below the
   occiput or occipital bone, an ear loop is disposed around each ear, the connection zones
   to the second side of the backstrap presenting outwardly from a user's head, and the
25 connection zones on the first side of the backstrap presenting inwardly toward a user's
   head.
            [0101]     Preferably one pair of the connection zones forms in use, a releasable
   connection system for releasable connection with a user interface.
            [0102]     Preferably the releasable connection system is a two-part connector
30 system.
            [0103]     Preferably each connection zone includes a component of the two-part
   releasable connector system.
            [0104]     Preferably a first connector part or portion of the two-part connector
   system is one of a hook or a loop of a hook and loop type fastener system, and a second
35 connector part or portion of the two-part connector system is the other of a loop or a
   hook for the hook and loop type fastener system.
            [0105]     Preferably a user interface is releasably connectable to the headgear
   component at the connection zones, said user interface being of a gas delivery device
   type.

                                                - 11
            [0106]     Preferably the user interface is a device for supplying breathable gas to
   a user.
            [0107]     Preferably the user interface is any one or any combination of: mask,
   nasal cannula, oronasal device.
 5          [0108]     Preferably the user interface is connectable to a breathing tube.
            [0109]     Preferably the releasable connection system is of a substantially low or
   flat profile.
            [0110]     Preferably the releasable connection system is of a substantially similar
   profile to the profile of the frame.
10          [0111]     Preferably the profile is generally substantially planar or substantially
   flat.
            [0112]     Preferably   the   releasable  connection   system    is an   interference
   attachment system.
            [0113]     Preferably   the   releasable  connection   system    enables   connection
15 between a user interface and the headgear component, whilst reducing the likelihood of
   application of tension during installation of the user interface to a user in combination
   with the headgear.
            [0114]     Preferably the releasable connection system reduces the likelihood of
   the need for application of adhesive, or adhesive tape, to a user's skin for the installation
20 and placement of a user interface into an operational position.
            [0115]     Preferably the headgear component is a provided as one-piece or as a
   single part article or is a unitary piece of headgear.
            [0116]     Preferably the component forms a part of a semi-rigid headgear frame
   is of a substantially non-elastic construction and/or substantially non-elastic material.
25          [0117]     Preferably the frame is of a substantially planar or substantially flat
   profile, the planar or flat profile generally contoured for planar or flat contact with a
   user's head.
            [0118]     Preferably the headgear component, or user interface, or both, are for
   an infant.
30          [0119]     Preferably the headgear component, or user interface, or both, are
   sized or designed for an infant.
            [0120]     In yet a further aspect there may be provided a user interface adapted
   for use with the headgear component as defined in the aspect above.
            [0121]     Preferably the headgear component of this aspect may be used as a
35 part or forms a part of the headgear defined in any one of the aspects above.
            [0122]     For the purposes of this specification, reference to "semi-rigid" may be
   defined as the headgear (or frame) having a form generally maintained by a structure or
   by materials selected to generally maintain a pre-determined shape or configuration, or
   which is generally self-supporting of its own weight and of a shape or form produced or

                                                - 12
   formed during manufacture, construction or assembly of parts. Such a definition of semi
   rigid includes the ability of such material to form to be able to be manipulated into
   alternative shapes or forms by adjustment of the relative parts or pieces making up the
   shape or form being semi-rigid themselves.
 5         [0123]     The term "comprising" as used in this specification means "consisting at
   least in part of". When interpreting each statement in this specification that includes the
   term "comprising", features other than that or those prefaced by the term may also be
   present.   Related terms such as "comprise" and "comprises" are to be interpreted in the
   same manner.
10         [0124]     This invention may also be said broadly to be embodied in the parts,
   elements and features referred to or indicated in the specification of the application,
   individually or collectively, and any or all combinations of any two or more said parts,
   elements or features, and where specific integers are mentioned herein which have
   known equivalents in the art to which this invention relates, such known equivalents are
15 deemed to be incorporated herein as if individually set forth.
           [0125]     The   invention is embodied      in the foregoing    and also envisages
   constructions of which the following gives examples only.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
20         [0126]     Preferred embodiments of the invention will be described by way of
   example only and with reference to the drawings, in which:
           [0127]     Figure 1 shows a headgear according to one embodiment of the
   invention ready to receive the head of a user.
           [0128]     Figure 2 shows a headgear in position about the head of a user, with a
25 user interface ready to be positioned on a user and be connected to the headgear.
           [0129]     Figure 3 shows an assembly of the headgear and user interface
   subsequent to interface positioning and connection of the interface with the headgear.
           [0130]     Figure   4 shows a headgear with        a user    interface assembly in
   connection, demonstrated is connection of the interface to the headgear on a region of
30 headgear in front of the ears of the user.
           [0131]     Figure 5 shows a different view of the headgear and interface assembly
   of figure 4.
           [0132]     Figures 6a to 6g show different views of two-part connector systems
   which may be used to connect the headgear and interface.
35         [0133]     Figure 6 is a profile view showing a headgear in position about the head
   of a user, with an interface connected and in position on the user.
           [0134]     Figure   7  is an    exploded  view showing    the relative  location  of
   components of the headgear and interface of Figure 6.

                                                - 13
            [0135]    Figure 8 shows the user wearing the headgear and interface viewed
   from in front and to one side.
            [0136]    Figure 9 shows a component of headgear of Figures 6 to 8 laid flat for
   receiving the head of the user.
 5          [0137]    Figure 10 is a profile view showing the headgear components of Figures
   6 to 8 wrapped up the sides of the head of the user, prior to attaching additional
   components and the interface.
            [0138]    Figure 11 shows a headgear component including a pair of rigidising
   members.
10
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
            [0139]    In one embodiment there is provided a headgear 1.            Headgear 1
   comprises a semi-rigid frame 2 engageable with the head 3 of a user, and a releasable
   connection system for releasable connection with a user interface 4.
15          [0140]    The   headgear   1 is easily and conveniently       removable   from,  or
   installable on, the head 3 of a user.         Advantageously, the semi-rigid nature of the
   headgear allows for resultant      minimal handling of a user or user's head during
   installation of the headgear or installation of a user interface to a user to an operational
   position. Further, the present invention provides for improved security of maintaining the
20 position of a user interface with a user (e.g. prongs remaining in position in the nares of
   a user's nose) from the inter-connection of the user interface with the headgear.
            [0141]    It should be appreciated there are a number of disadvantages and
   problems associated with the need for re-positioning of an interface, particularly an infant
   interface.  Included is "snub    nosing", epidermal abrasion, or dermal allergies from
25 traditional tapes or their adhesives.    Such problems are also incurred during the cycling
   of a user between different treatment options and, traditionally, the subsequent need to
   remove headgear or tapes or user interfaces and then the installation of new equipment
   and user interfaces or interface positioning headgear or other gear.
            [0142]    Therefore, provision of a headgear that is in a ready-to-receive mode
30 for receiving of a user's head or the user interface (or both) is a useful step in
   progressing toward     reducing the problems users have previously been faced with.
   Further, improving the ease of installation, both in terms of complexity as well as time
   and effort by a carer (e.g. nurse), is of further benefit.
            [0143]    In a further embodiment headgear 1 comprises a semi-rigid frame 2
35 engageable with the head 3 of a user. The frame 2 extends generally about a rear region
   5 of a user's head 3, generally about an upper region 6 of a user's head 3, and generally
   about an ear 7 or both ears 7 of a user. Such a frame 2 further comprises a releasable
   connection system for releasable connection with a user interface 4.

                                                 - 14
           [0144]     The releasable connection system can be on or about a region of the
   frame extending generally about the ear or ears of the user, or can be provided on or
   about a region of the frame extending generally at or in front of the ear or ears of the
   user, such as the region indicated by reference numeral 8.
 5         [0145]     The releasable connection system can be a two-part connector system.
   For example, a first connector part or portion 9 may be provided by, or on, a region of
   the headgear, such as for example region 8. A second connector part or portion 10 may
   be provided by, or on, a region of (or in attachment or connection with) a user interface,
   such as the region indicated by reference numeral 11.
10         [0146]     Figure 1 shows a headgear 1 in a configuration which is ready to
   receive the head 3 of a user.
           [0147]     It will be appreciated that various alternative releasable fastener or
   releasable type connection systems can be utilised with this invention.     In one preferred
   embodiment, the first connector part or portion 9 can be a hook (or one of a hook or a
15 loop) of a hook and loop type fastener system, and the second connector part or portion
   10 would then be the loop (or other of a loop or a hook) for the complementary part of
   such a hook and loop type fastener system. In the embodiment shown in Figure 6g, both
   first connector part 9 and second connector part 10 may include a mixture of hook and
   loop parts. Alternatively, a mushroom-type hook and loop fastener system may be used,
20 as shown in Figure 6d.
           [0148]     Alternatively, as for example shown in Figure 6b, adhesive parts may
   be used where those adhesive parts are connectable to, or receivable of, one another. For
   example, a first part 9 may be an adhesive part, or one part of a two-part adhesive
   connection system; and, the second part 10 may be a receiver of the first adhesive part,
25 or the part 10 may be the second part of a two-part adhesive system. Such adhesives
   and parts 9, 10 are provided in a form so as to be releasable from each other.
           [0149]     Further    examples     of    releasable  connection systems    of  other
   embodiments are shown in Figures 6a to 6g. As shown in Figure 6a, first connector part 9
   may include an L-shaped retaining hook, which can be inserted into a slot provided in
30 second connector part 10. As shown in Figures 6c and 6e, first connector part 9 may
   include a dome which is shaped to fit into one or more slots in second connector part 10.
   The slots may be keyhole-shaped, to prevent accidental removal of the dome from the
   slot. Alternatively, as shown in Figure 6f, a dome may be provided on second connector
   part 10, with a complementary receiver on first connector part 9.
35         [0150]     Figures   6a-6g   illustrates various    embodiments  of the   releasable
   connection system, including variations of snap-fit or push-fit connection systems.
           [0151]     Advantageously, the releasable connection system utilised is of a
   substantially similar profile, or substantially similar to the profile of the frame 2.    As
   shown in the figures, the profile is generally a substantially planar or substantially flat

                                               - 15
   profile.   This beneficially allows for increased comfort and minimising pressure sores,
   while minimising the visual impact or obstructions that other headgear of more raised
   exterior profiles may have or show.      Part of the challenge in ensuring compliance with
   gas delivery systems by infant users is the visual impact that more obtrusive headgear or
 5 other systems have on the carers of the user or parents or guardians of infants.
            [0152]     For example, some prior art headgear systems are relatively obtrusive
   both in their overall size and visual impact. Such obtrusiveness and visual impact can be
   distressing to the carers or parents of infants undergoing treatment supplied by a user
   interface.   It is therefore an aim of this invention to provide an alternative headgear
10 system which aids in minimising obtrusiveness or visual impact to the carers of infants
   wearing such headgear, and/or which provides for a headgear and user interface set-up
   which is easier and less complex that those systems provided previously.
            [0153]     The releasable connection system can be of an interference attachment
   type system.      For example, such an interference attachment system can provide for
15 connection or connectability between a user interface 4 (or a part thereof, or a part
   connected or attached to a user interface) and the headgear 1, particularly to a region 8
   that is either i) extending generally about the ear or ears 7 of the user, or ii) that is
   extending generally in front of the ear or ears of a user, or iii) at or in front of the ear or
   ears of a user.
20          [0154]     Various types of releasable connection or attachment systems are
   contemplated. One example is that of a hook and loop type system, other systems may
   for example include other mechanical quick release systems.
            [0155]     In   one   preferred  embodiment,     advantageously,      the   releasable
   connection system does not utilise pulley strap systems or buckles. Pulley or buckle type
25 systems can impact on a user's face, particularly an infant face, such as by pressure
   sores.    For example, application of a connection or retention system too tightly on a
   user's face may contribute to so-called "snub nosing", such as when forces are applied to
   the nose, septum or philtrum.        Such "snub nosing" is to be substantially avoided or
   reduced. This is uncomfortable for the user (particularly infant users), and distressing for
30 the carer or parents of the infant.       Therefore, the use of elasticised or stretchable
   materials is generally substantially avoided or reduced. For example, the headgear
   connectable part or portion of the user interface is of a substantially non-elastic part,
   thereby minimising or reducing the likelihood of any pre-loading of tension build-up
   between the user interfacing part and the user or user interfacing part and the headgear.
35 At the same time, the user interface is generally maintained in an operational position
   (e.g. by maintaining the prongs of a nasal cannula in the nares of a user's nose). Then
   tension or forces between these parts can also be minimised or reduced.
            [0156]     Further, it is desirable for the releasable connection system to be
   enabled by a quick fit or quick release system or method for ease of installation or

                                               - 16
   removal of the user interface from a user and to the headgear 1. Specifically, this
   invention reduces the likelihood of the need for     application of tension during installation
   of the user interface to a user in combination with the headgear.           Instead, the user
   interface can be placed into its required user interfacing position, the second connector or
 5 part of the user interface is then able to be quickly and relatively easily located upon the
   region of the headgear 1 adapted to receive the releasable connector region of the user
   interface.  In this manner, a carer or installer of the user interface can, with ease and
   minimal need for additional help, install a user interface and locate the interface in its
   required operational position.
10         [0157]     This invention beneficially reduces the likelihood of the need for
   application of adhesive, or adhesive tape, to a user's skin for the installation and
   placement of a user interface into an operational position.          Adhesive tapes or other
   dermal adhesive patches, particularly for infants, create problems. Problems include, but
   are   not limited to, skin irritation from      adhesive chemicals (or adhesive removal
15 chemicals, such as solvents) or tape materials (e.g. due to skin sensitivities), damage to
   user skin due to repeated application and removal of dermal patches or tapes for
   positioning or re-positioning of the interface for the user. Re-positioning may be required
   or adjustments may be needed where treatment therapies are being cycled (i.e. changed
   from one type of treatment to another, and then back again).
20         [0158]     Advantageously therefore, this invention provides for a system of
   positioning or locating of a user interface for a user, yet reducing the likelihood of the
   problems associated with adhesive tapes attached to the user's skin.
           [0159]     In positioning of the user interface to the headgear 1, the frame 2 can
   extend generally about the ears of the user, may partially surround or encircle each, or
25 both, ears, or may wholly surround or encircle the ear or both ears. The figures illustrate
   one embodiment where the ears are wholly encircled by loops. It will be appreciated that
   alternative shapes or forms are contemplated.
           [0160]     As more clearly shown by figures 2-5, the headgear               1 can be
   adjustable.    Adjustment allows for fitment to a user's head, such as for improved
30 anatomical adjustment or differing head size.
           [0161]     The headgear 1 can be adjustable for varying the distance the frame 2
   extends between the rear region 5 (or region above the nape of a user's neck) and the
   portion of the frame that extends generally about the ear or ears of a user.
           [0162]     The headgear 1 can alternatively, or in addition, be adjustable for
35 varying the distance the frame extends between the upper region (or top) 6 of a user's
   head and the portion of the frame that extends generally about the ear of ears of a user.
           [0163]     In another alternative, or combination, the frame 2 extending generally
   about the ear or ears of a user can be adjustable, for example an adjustment can be
   made to the size of the loop about an, or each ear of the user.             That is, the loop

                                              - 17
   encircling partially or wholly the ear or ears of a user can be made smaller or larger,
   depending on the head 3 of a headgear user.
           [0164]     The various adjustments above can be made possible by an adjustment
   strap or straps.
 5         [0165]     In one form, the adjustment strap or one of the adjustment straps may
   be that indicated by numeral 12 as being a part of the frame positionable generally about
   the upper region (or top) 6 of the user's head.     Strap 12 is shown in figures 2 and 3 as
   components that have reciprocal ones of a two-part releasable connection system, such
   as hook and loop components.       Alternatively, figures 4 and 5 illustrate an adjustment
10 strap 13 in the form of a buckle arrangement where one of the adjustable straps is
   insertable through the buckle and positionable, again for example by use of a releasable
   connection system, such as that of a hook and loop type system being provided on an
   underside of the strap and connectable with an outward facing side of the buckle side of
   the strap.
15         [0166]     Similar adjustment strap systems can be utilised for an adjustment
   strap or straps that are a part of the frame 2 and positionable generally about the rear
   region (or region above the nape of the user's neck) 5.
           [0167]     Such adjustment straps can be both a part of the frame 2 and
   positionable generally about the upper region (or top) 6 of the user's head and the frame
20 positionable generally about the rear region (or region above the nape of the user's neck)
   5. Optionally, included can be adjustment around the ear region.
           [0168]     With respect to the head 3 of the user, the rear region 5 is generally a
   lower rear region of the user's head, or generally the region above the nape of the user's
   neck. The upper region 6 is generally a region about the top of a user's head.
25         [0169]     In the headgear 1 may comprise a semi-rigid frame engageable with
   the head of a user, the frame extending generally about a rear region of a user's head
   and generally about an ear or both ears of a user's and wherein the frame further
   comprises a releasable connection system for releasable connection with a user interface.
           [0170]     In another embodiment, the frame 2 can be a one-piece or a single part
30 article or is a unitary piece of headgear.    For example, the frame 2 is not provided by
   multiple parts that must be each assembled or connected together to provide the semi
   rigid headgear.
           [0171]     In another embodiment, the frame 2 can be assembled into a headgear
   1 which is semi-rigid, and being effectively a unitary piece of headgear, except for any
35 optional adjustment straps. Optionally, the frame can be formed of all the same material.
           [0172]     Being of a semi-rigid form, it will be appreciated the frame 2 has an
   interface 4 which may be releasably connected thereto. Such self-supporting form of the
   headgear 1 allows for a distribution of any force applied to the headgear 1 from
   positioning of the interface. Such semi-rigid headgear 1 provides a frame 2 about which a

                                                - 18
   user interface can be releasable connected thereto, and into which the head 3 of a user
   can be inserted.
           [0173]     In another exemplar, the semi-rigid frame can be formed of or from a
   substantially non-elastic construction or substantially non-elastic material.         In this
 5 manner, the frame 2 is formed or constructed so as to be of a substantially self
   supporting shape or configuration.      In this manner, the frame provides a substantially
   self-supporting frame 2 to which a user interface 4 (or a part thereof, or a part connected
   or attached to a user interface) is connectable and supported in-situ therefrom.
           [0174]     The headgear 1 may be constructed to have the frame 2 being of a
10 substantially planar or substantially flat profile.  Such profile can allow for less bulky or
   obtrusive headgear, or can allow for wider distribution of any forces about a user's head.
   The flat or planar profile may contribute or allow for larger contouring of headgear 1
   surface about the user's head 3. Similarly, the releasable connection system components
   are preferably of low profile for similar reasoning and reduced bulkiness.
15         [0175]     The frame can be constructed or manufactured from various materials.
   Materials of a smooth surface or comfortable or soft outer material disposition for user
   may be preferred. Included are those materials of dermatological sensitivity.
           [0176]     In one embodiment, the headgear 1 can be constructed from non
   woven materials, or those polymers providing suitable semi-rigidity.         Other examples
20 include forming of the frame from thermoplastic or thermosetting polymeric materials, or
   composites therefrom.     Alternatively, the frame may be formed of or from a weldable
   polymeric material.    Woven materials that do not fray easily, but which provide suitable
   semi-rigidity, may also be used.
           [0177]     Polyethylene terephthalate (PET), polyethylene (PE), or polyesters are
25 other contemplated materials which may be formed into a suitably shaped frame 2.
   Similarly, the frame 2 may be formed from a non-woven polyethylene terephthalate
   (PET)/  polyethylene (PE)   laminated composite, or a non-woven PET/polyester laminated
   composite.   Other laminate composites are also contemplated; suitable are those which
   provide for a level of semi-rigidity.
30         [0178]     Another embodiment is illustrated in Figures 6 to 10.       The headgear
   and interface assembly as illustrated in Figures 6 to 8 with references to its position and
   fit on the user.   Figures 9 and 10 illustrate the form and fit of the primary headgear
   component.     The primary headgear component comprises a backstrap 61 that extends
   around the back of the head of the user below the occipital protuberance. A first ear loop
35 63 extends from one end of the backstrap. A second ear loop 65 extends from the other
   end of the back strap 61.          Each of the ear loops is of similar form.        In some
   embodiments, the ear loops are symmetric across the sagittal plane. That is, the first ear
   loop is a mirror image of the second ear loop considered relative to a reference plane
   bisecting the backstrap.      In some embodiments, the first and second ear loops are

                                              - 19
   identical.  In these embodiments, the shape of the ear loops and the angle of the ear
   loops relative to the ends of the backstrap and the shape of the backstrap are such that
   the headgear, when laid flat, is rotationally symmetric when rotated through an angle of
   1800.
 5         [0179]     In   respect of the various planes of symmetry         of the headgear
   component 61, the first and second plane may be substantially mutually perpendicular to
   one another. The first plane corresponding to the sagittal plane of the user, for example
   the left ear strap can be substantially a mirror image of the right ear strap. The second
   plane corresponding to the transverse plane of the user, for example when the headgear
10 is cut lengthwise along the length of the backstrap, the top half can be substantially a
   mirror image of the bottom half. Yet further, the headgear component 61 can be
   symmetrical about a third plane corresponding to the coronal plane of the user, for
   example the front face or side is the mirror image of the back face or side.
           [0180]       In other embodiments, they may be sufficiently physically similar to
15 be functionally identical without being physically identical. Each ear loop is connected to
   the backstrap 61 at a connecting portion 67. The ear loop diverges form the connecting
   portion 67 such that one arm 69 of the ear loop projects forward and below the ear, and
   the other arm 71 of the ear loop projects upward behind the ear. A third arm 73 of the
   ear loop extends generally upward in front of the ear and upward and rearward above the
20 ear. The arms 69, 71 and 73 may in some embodiments comprise a series of straight
   portions.
           [0181]     In other embodiments, the arms 69, 71 and 73, or one or more of the
   arms, comprise smooth curves. In some embodiments, the edges of the arms comprise
   combinations of straight sections and smooth curves.       The arms 69, 71 and 73 define
25 between them an ear opening 75.        The limits of the ear opening 75 are defined by the
   inward edges of each of the arms 69, 71 and 73. At the junction of first arm 69 and third
   arm 73, the ear loop includes a first connections zone 75.       In some embodiments, the
   connection zone 75 is substantially on the junction 77.         In other embodiments, the
   connection zone 75 is located on an extended tab 79 extending from the junction 77.
30         [0182]     In some embodiments, the extended tab 79 extends from the ear loop
   63 in a direction such that it appears an extension of the first arm 69.
           [0183]     The first connection zone provides an area for connection of a portion of
   an interface to the headgear. This area may include portions or parts of a fastener or
   connection system. For example, the area may include one part of a two-part connection
35 system such as either the hook or loop components of a hook and look fastener system.
   Alternatively, the area may include a receptive surface for connection of an adhesive
   fastener system, such as a smooth plastic surface. Alternatively, the area may include a
   clip component for connecting with a clip component of an interface.       The ear loop 63
   includes a second connection zone at or adjacent the connection zone 81 at or adjacent

                                               - 20
   the junction 83 between the second arm 71 and the third arm 73.                      In some
   embodiments, the connection zone 81 may be located on a tab 85 extending from the
   junction 83. In some embodiments, the tab 85 extends from the junction 83 so as to be
   substantially an extension of the line of the second arm 71. The connection zone 81, like
 5 the connection zone 75 includes provision for securing other components to this primary
    headgear component.
            [0184]    According to one feature of this headgear, each of the connection zones
    75 and 81 are configured to be substantially interchangeable and thus to connect one of
   an interface component and a headgear component.           That is, connection zone 75 can
10  receive either a headgear component and an interface component, and connection zone
   81 can receive either of an interface component and a headgear component.
            [0185]    In some embodiments, the distance between the region 67 where the
   ear loop 63 connects to headgear backstrap 61 and connection zone 75 is the same as
   the distance between the region 67 and connection zone 81.         This is best illustrated in
15  Figure 10 by a comparison of distance 89 and distance 87. The direction from region 67
   and first connection zone 75 extends at an angle 97 relative to a centerline direction 91
   of the backstap 61. The line 93 between region 67 and connection zone 81 extends at an
   angle 101 to the centerline 91.    In some embodiments, the angle 97 and the angle 101
   are substantially equal.     By substantially equal, we mean within 10 degrees, within 5
20 degrees or within 3 degrees or less.
            [0186]    With the primary headgear component fitted to the head of the user,
   one of the connection zones of the ear loop 63 is presented low down in front of the ear
   of the user and presents generally forwards. The other of the connection zones is located
    high up above and behind the ear of the user and presents generally upwards.              The
25 forward lower down connection zone is placed on the cheeks of the user, and can receive
   a connecting portion 103 of a user interface 105. The connecting zone above the ear can
    receive a connecting portion 107 of an upper head strap 109.
            [0187]    In some embodiments, the connecting portion 103 of interface 105
   includes a second part of a two-part connection system adapted to engage the first part
30  provided at the respective connection zones of the primary headgear component.
    Similarly, the connecting portion 107 of head strap 109 includes a second part of the
   connection system, also to connect with the other part of the fastener system that is
    provided on the connection zones of the primary part of the headgear.           The two-part
   connection systems as described previously with respect to headgear 1 apply with respect
35 to the connection zones of the headgear component 61.
            [0188]    It is to be additionally noted that in another embodiment a snap-fit or
   snap-dome type connection may be used a two-part connection system.
            [0189]    According    to  these   embodiments,    the   headgear    is   rotationally
   functionally symmetric so that whichever way round the headgear is placed on the head

                                               - 21
   of the user, each of the ear loops will accommodate the ear of the user with the
   connection zones presented at the same locations on the head of the user.               The
   connection zones are also interchangeable so that the top strap 109 may connect to
   whichever connection zone results at the upper portion of the head and the interface 105
 5 may be connected to whichever connection zone results in front of the ear.
            [0190]    One aspect of this symmetricity and functional accommodation           of
   different headgear orientations arises in the shape of the ear loop 63 and in particular,
   the shape of the ear opening defined by the inner edges of the arms 69, 71 and 73.
            [0191]    The first arm 69 of each ear loop is concave toward the ear. In some
10 embodiments, the second arm 71 of each ear loop is concave toward the ear.
            [0192]    In some embodiments, the front ear loop arm 73 is concave toward the
   ear.
            [0193]    In some embodiments, the primary headgear component may include
   connection zones on both sides of the web of material from which it is constructed at or
15 adjacent the junctions 77.      In these embodiments, the headgear may be functionally
   reversible as well as functionally rotationally symmetric. In these embodiments, it is not
   possible for a user correctly placing the backstrap behind the head of the wearer as
   illustrated in Figure 9 and bringing the ear loops up the sides of the head of the wearer
   as illustrated in Figure 10 to find that they had not oriented correctly to receive the user
20 interface and top strap.
            [0194]    The backstrap 61 may optionally additionally comprise one or more
   rigidising members 120. Such members being configured to allow the backstrap 61, and
   therefore at least part of the headgear, to at least partially retain its shape when it is
   bent around a patient's head, thereby making it easier, for example for a single user, to
25 attach an interface and/or top strap and/or to fit the backstrap 61 about a patient's head.
   Such members 120 may preferably be disposed or embedded in or upon the backstrap
   61, and may be in a manner so that such members 120 do not directly contact the user.
   Alternatively, such members 120 may be provided in a non-embedded configuration, but
   where at least such a member 120 is covered or protected so as to not be in direct
30 contact with the user.
            [0195]    In various embodiments, such rigidising member or members 120 may
   be formed or comprise of any suitable material or constituent material able to facilitate
   the retention of a shape.     For example, such rigidising member 120 may be formed of
   one or more of: a copper piece, a copper wire or strap or length, an aluminium piece, an
35 aluminium wire or strap or length, a ductile plastic piece and/or a ductile plastic wire or
   strap or length.
            [0196]    Figure 11 illustrates one example of a backstrap 61 with a pair of
   rigidising members 120 disposed within the backstrap 61.

                                                - 22
           [0197]     It will be appreciated the rigidising member may itself be of a
   continuous or discontinuous length. For example, in one such embodiment the rigidising
   member may comprise a series of discrete sections or a plurality of rigidising member
   components disposed of or embedded in or upon the backstrap 61.               Such discrete
 5 component sections themselves form a rigidising member 120.            In yet another such
   embodiment, the rigidising member may be single length or a single component, for
   example the whole length of a rigidising member can be of a rigidising material or
   component.
           [0198]    The backstrap 61 forms a headgear component that can be one part or
10 component of a headgear for a user.
           [0199]     Particularly suited to this invention is the headgear, or user interface,
   or both, for infant use.     Particularly this is due to their head size, need for delicate
   application of user interfaces or headgear with minimal disturbance to the infant, and
   desire to improve the ease of fitment of user interfaces to infants without the need for
15 the more complicated systems currently available.
           [0200]     Such user interfaces are desirably those connectable to gas delivery
   systems for various breathing gas treatments, e.g. CPAP or other breathing gas
   treatments. User interfaces are any of those suitable as gas delivery devices, particularly
   those of masks, nasal cannula, or other oronasal devices.
20         [0201]     In respect of a further embodiment there is provided a user interface 4.
   Such a user interface 4 comprises a user interfacing part or portion 14, and a headgear
   connectable part or portion 16.
           [0202]     In another embodiment however, there is provided the user interface 4
   comprising the user interfacing part or portion 14, and a headgear connection system
25 part or portion 16 for releasable connection with a releasable connectable part or portion
   15.   The headgear connection system may be provided by, or on, a region of (or in
   attachment or connection with) the user interface.       In this manner, a part of the user
   interface or part that may be connected to the user interface part 16 may be supported
   by the releasable connection system part or portion 15 of the headgear. See for example
30 figures 2-5 in which the interface 14 is supported or attached to the portion 15. In some
   embodiments, interface 14 may be provided with one or a pair (or more) of parts or
   portions 16 connectable with the headgear, which parts or portions 16 may extend from
   interface 14 for connection with the headgear.       In some embodiments, the releasable
   connectable part or portion 15 may be integral with the user interfacing part or portion
35 16 or may be over-moulded with the user interfacing part or portion 16.
           [0203]    The headgear connection system or its part or portion 16 can be in the
   form of a backing or a substrate to which the user interface is attached or connected or
   connectable thereto.    Such a backing or substrate can extend across the whole back or
   skin-side of the user interface, or it may be attached or connected (or otherwise formed

                                                - 23
   with) outer peripheral edges or sides of the user interface which then extend sufficient
   length to be enabled to releasably connect with the headgear 1 connectable part 15, for
   example on region 8.
            [0204]     Such part or portion 16 of the interface 4 is capable of supporting
 5 sufficient shear and pull forces exerted by positioning of the user interface and
   connecting of the part or portion 16 with the headgear 1 region 8. Sufficient connection
   strength or resistance is advantageously provided to limit or reduce the likelihood of an
   infant removing the part or portion 16 of the interface 4 from the headgear 1.
            [0205]     Desirably, suitable materials for such part or portion 16 are one or
10 more of: dermatological appropriate/safe for skin contact (particularly for infant skin),
   smooth surfaced (to reduce or minimise abrasion to a user's skin), generally of a flat or
   planar profile (i.e. visually less obtrusive), and may be of a soft outer-most surface for
   improved feel to a user or carer or parent. Ideally, such materials may not produce lint,
   or be easily pilled, or easily frayable.  Preferred materials also include those which allow
15 for ease of cleaning.
            [0206]     The figures show the gas delivery tube connected to the user interface
   4, 14.    The gas delivery tube or any other tubes that may be connected to a user
   interface are optionally able to be freely positioned. Such tubes are not attached to the
   part 10 of the interface. The ability to independently position such tubes allows the carer
20 (e.g. nurse) to arrange the tube or tubes in a manner most comfortable for the user to
   reduce the likelihood of pressure sores or other discomforts and reduce the likelihood of
   tubular kinking or other such situations.
            [0207]     As with the headgear 1, the headgear connection system part or
   portion 16 of the interface forms one (or a first) part of a two-part connection system.
25 The other, or another, of the two-part connection system is then provided by the frame 2
   (or headgear 1) as previously defined above. For example, one part can be one of a hook
   or a loop (of a hook and loop type releasable connection system), while the other part
   can the other of a loop or a hook, being the reciprocal connection part of such a hook and
   loop type system.
30          [0208]     Such a headgear connection system part or portion of the user interface
   can be for example those which are an interference attachment system where a first part
   is interferingly attachable or connectable to a second part. Connection or connectability
   is desirably between the user interface (or a part thereof, or a part connected or attached
   to a user interface) and a headgear (as as that defined above), such as on or at one or
35 more of: a headgear region extending generally about the ear or ears of a user; a
   headgear region extending generally in front of the ear or ears of a user; a headgear
   region at or in front of the ear or ears of a user.
            [0209]     Such headgear connection system part or portion 16 can be a strip or a
   strap or a length of a connector part of the connection system.        Such strip or strap or

                                                 - 24
   length extends about or from around the user interface 14 to be connectable to or on or
   about a region of a frame, the frame (or headgear) as defined above. The releasable
   connection system part or potion 16 can be a flexible, yet non-elasticised part.       In this
   manner, the portion 16 can be attached or connected to the frame 2 about for example
 5 region 8, 15, whilst not being overly stretchable, and therefore imparting tension forces
   to the user (particularly for reducing the likelihood of "snub nosing" problems).
           [0210]      In   one    preferred   embodiment,    advantageously,   the   releasable
   connection system does not utilise pulley strap systems or buckles. Pulley or buckle type
   systems can impact on a user's face, particularly an infant face. For example, application
10 of a connection or retention system too tightly on a user's face may contribute to so
   called "snub nosing", such as when forces are applied to the nose, septum or philtrum.
           [0211]      Beneficially the    releasable connection system     enables connection
   between a user interface and the headgear 1, whilst reducing the likelihood of the
   application of tension during installation of the user interface to a user in combination
15 with the headgear.
           [0212]      A first connector portion 9 is provided by, or on, a region of headgear
   (as defined above), and a second connector portion 10 is provided by, or on, a region of
   (or in attachment or connection with) the user interface.
           [0213]      Again, with respect to the user interface, the user interface releasable
20 connection system part or portion is advantageously of a substantially low profile, for
   example it may be a substantially similar profile to the profile of the frame (e.g. planar or
   flat).
           [0214]     The user interface may be any of those options mentioned previously
   above.    In this invention, particularly preferred are user interface options for use with
25 infants. Interfaces are connected to or connectable to gas delivery systems, especially
   breathable gas systems, and to other parts of a breathing system or medical circuit.
           [0215]      An assembly of the headgear 1 and user interface 4 provides for a
   system of improving comfort of a user and for aiming to improve compliance of treatment
   from user interfaces and gas delivery systems. In a further embodiment therefore, there
30 is provided an assembly comprising a headgear 1, the headgear being as previously
   defined above. The assembly also comprises a user interface 4, the user interface being
   as previously defined above.         The headgear 1 and user interface 4 are releasably
   connectable to each other.
           [0216]      As mentioned above, the headgear 1 is supportive or supporting of the
35 user interface 4 in an interface 4 in-situ or installed in-use (or operational) position with
   or on a user. The headgear 1 is provided with a first or one part of a two-part releasable
   connection system, and the user interface 4, 14 or a region 16 of (or in attachment or
   connection with) the user interface comprises a second or other of the two-part

                                           - 25
  releasable connection system.  Such a system allows for the releasable retaining of the
  interface 4, 14 on a user.
          [0217]    The foregoing description of the invention includes preferred forms
  thereof. Modifications may be made thereto without departing from the scope of the
5 invention.

                                               - 26
   CLAIMS:
   1.      A headgear component as a part of a headgear comprising:
           a backstrap,
           a first ear loop extending from one end of the backstrap, the first ear loop
 5 following a path defining a first ear opening,
           a second ear loop extending from another end of the backstrap, the second ear
   loop following a path defining a second ear opening,
           a first pair of connection zones on the first ear loop, each connection zone spaced
   an equal distance from the backstrap and spaced from each other,
10         a second pair of connection zones on the second ear loop, each connection zone
   spaced an equal distance apart from the backstrap and spaced from each other,
   a connection zone of the first pair and a connection zone of the second pair are on a first
   side of the backstrap, and a connection zone of the first pair and a connection zone of the
   second pair are on a second (other) side of the backstrap, wherein the headgear
15 component is substantially of a symmetrical shape.
   2.      The headgear component as claimed in claim 1, wherein the backstrap is adapted
   to cross behind the head below the occiput or occipital bone.
   3.      The headgear component as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the headgear
   component is symmetrical along a first plane and a second plane.
20 4.      The headgear component as claimed in claim 3, wherein the first plane
   corresponds with the sagittal plane of the user, and the second plane corresponds with
   the transverse plane of the user.
   5.      The headgear component as claimed in any one of clams 1 to 4, wherein the
   headgear component is symmetrical along a third plane.
25 6.      The headgear component as claimed in claim 5, wherein the third plane
   corresponds with the coronal plane of the user.
   7.      The headgear component as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the
   headgear component is symmetrical about the backstrap.
   8.      The headgear component as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein each
30 strap includes projecting portions, and the connection zones are located on the projecting
   portions.

                                               - 27
   9.      The headgear component as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the
   headgear component is a flat web of a material, the web being bendable but substantially
   non-extensible.
   10.     The headgear component as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the
 5 headgear component is reversible so that each face of the web is of a material that may
   comfortably contact the user.
   11.     The headgear component as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein the
   headgear component is a flat web of a material, and each connection zone includes a
   component of a releasable fastening system on both the first and second sides of the web
10 of material.
   12.     The headgear component as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein a top
   strap comprising a first end and second end, may have the first end releasably fastened
   to one of the first pair of connection zones presently outwardly, and the second end
   releasably fastened to one of the second pair of connection zones presented outwardly,
15 the top strap extending substantially across an upper region or top of a user's head.
   13.     A headgear component as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein
   connection zones are provided on both faces of the headgear component.
   14.     A headgear component as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 13, including one or
   more rigidising members in the backstrap.
20 15.     A headgear component as claimed in claim 14, wherein said rigidising member
   comprises one or more of copper wire, a copper piece or strap or strip, aluminium wire,
   aluminium piece or strap or strip, ductile or conformable plastics.
   16.     The headgear component as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 15, wherein the
   shapes and relative positioning of the backstrap, the ear loops, and the connection zones,
25 being such that
           in a first mode of use, the backstrap crosses behind the head below the occiput or
   occipital bone, an ear loop is disposed around each ear, the connection zones to the first
   side of the backstrap presenting outwardly from a user's head, and the connection zones
   on the second side of the backstrap presenting inwardly toward a user's head,
30         and in a second mode of use, the backstrap crosses behind the head below the
   occiput or occipital bone, an ear loop is disposed around each ear, the connection zones
   to the second side of the backstrap presenting outwardly from a user's head, and the

                                              - 28
   connection zones on the first side of the backstrap presenting inwardly toward a user's
   head.
   17.   The headgear component as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 16, wherein one pair
   of the connection zones forms in use, a releasable connection system for releasable
 5 connection with a user interface.
   18.   The headgear component as claimed in claim 15, wherein the releasable connection
   system is a two-part connector system.
   19.   The headgear component as claimed in claim 18, wherein each connection zone
   includes a component of the two-part releasable connector system.
10 20.   The headgear component as claimed in claim 18 or claim 19, wherein a first
   connector part or portion of the two-part connector system is one of a hook or a loop of a
   hook and loop type fastener system, and a second connector part or portion of the two
   part connector system is the other of a loop or a hook for the hook and loop type fastener
   system.
15 21.   The headgear component as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 20, wherein a user
   interface is releasably connectable to the headgear component at the connection zones,
   said user interface being of a gas delivery device type.
   22.   The headgear component as claimed in claim 21, wherein the user interface is a
   device for supplying breathable gas to a user.
20 23.   The headgear component as claimed in claim 21 or claim 22, wherein the user
   interface is any one or any combination of: mask, nasal cannula, oronasal device.
   24.   The headgear component as claimed in any one of claims 21 to 23, wherein the
   user interface is connectable to a breathing tube.
   25.   The headgear component as claimed in any one of claims 18 to 24, wherein the
25 releasable connection system is of a substantially low or flat profile.
   26.   The headgear component as claimed in any one of claims 18 to 25, wherein the
   releasable connection system is of a substantially similar profile to the profile of the
   frame.

                                                - 29
   27.   The headgear component as claimed in claim 26, wherein the profile is generally
   substantially planar or substantially flat.
   28.   The headgear component as claimed in any one of claims 18 to 27, wherein the
   releasable connection system is an interference attachment system.
 5 29.   The headgear component as claimed in any one of claims 18 to 28, wherein the
   releasable connection system enables connection between a user interface and the
   headgear component, whilst reducing the likelihood of application of tension during
   installation of the user interface to a user in combination with the headgear.
   30.   The headgear component as claimed in any one of claims 18 to 29, wherein the
10 releasable connection system reduces the likelihood of the need for application of
   adhesive, or adhesive tape, to a user's skin for the installation and placement of a user
   interface into an operational position.
   31.   The headgear component as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 30, wherein the
   headgear component is a provided as one-piece or as a single part article or is a unitary
15 piece of headgear.
   32.   The headgear component as claimed in claim 31, wherein the component forms a
   part of a semi-rigid headgear frame is of a substantially non-elastic construction and/or
   substantially non-elastic material.
   33.   The headgear component as claims 32, wherein the frame is of a substantially
20 planar or substantially flat profile, the planar or flat profile generally contoured for planar
   or flat contact with a user's head.
   34.   The headgear component as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 33, wherein the
   headgear component, or user interface, or both, are for an infant.
   35.   The headgear component as claimed in claim 34, wherein the headgear component,
25 or user interface, or both, are sized or designed for an infant.
   36.    A user interface adapted for use with the headgear component of any one of claims
   1 to 35.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
