  Abstract
  A method implemented on a gaming machine to provide game play of a game is
  provided. The method includes: defining a plurality of variables for the game, each
  variable having a plurality of possible values; assigning the variables into a plurality of
5 groups, wherein the number of variables assigned to each group is variable between
  plays of the game; for each variable assigned to each of the groups, determining a
  value from within its plurality of possible values and determining there from, a
  combined value for each group; and, dependent on the combined value for a said
  group, awarding a prize associated with that group.
                                                                 103223771 (GHMatters) P88030 AU.3 30/05118

                                                    1
                                          Tournament game
                                        Field of the invention
   The present invention generally relates to gaming machines and methods of gaming. A
   particular embodiment of the present invention relates to the provision of tournament
 5 games.
                                    Background of the invention
   With the increase of gambling at gaming venues has come increased competition
   between gaming venues to obtain a larger share of the total gambling spend. Gaming
   venue operators have therefore continuously looked for new variations and types of
10 games in order to attract both new and return customers to their venues.
   One type of game that has had some success in recent times is a tournament game in
   which players compete against each other for a prize. Another type of game is a
   tournament game in which players cooperate to potentially win a prize from the house.
   A further type of gaming machine is one where a player plays a game individually.
15 Gaming machines may include a game provided in two parts, a base game and a feature
   game. Sometimes the feature game has an average return to player of greater than
   100%, but the return to player of the game as a whole is less than 100% due to the
   relative contribution of the feature game in comparison to the base game.
20 Reference to any prior art in the specification is not, and should not be taken as, an
   acknowledgment or any form of suggestion that this prior art forms part of the common
   general knowledge in Australia or any other jurisdiction or that this prior art could
   reasonably be expected to be ascertained, understood and regarded as relevant by a
   person skilled in the art.
25
                                     Summary of the invention
   According to one aspect, the invention broadly resides in a method implemented on a
   gaming machine to provide game play of a game, the method including:
           defining a plurality of variables for the game, each variable having a plurality of
30 possible values;
           assigning the variables into a plurality of groups, wherein the number of variables
   assigned to each group is variable between plays of the game;
           suggesting to a player an optimal number of variables to assign to at least one of
                                                                      103223771 (GHMatters) P88030 AU.3 30/05118

                                                  2
   the groups, wherein said suggesting is representative of a maximal chance of winning a
   prize associated with the at least one group;
            receiving at least one assignment from the player of a number of variables
   assigned to each of the groups;
 5          for each variable assigned to each of the groups, determining a value from within
   its plurality of possible values and determining there from, a combined value for each
   group;
            dependent on the combined value for a said group, awarding a prize associated
   with that group.
10 In one embodiment, the game is provided as a feature game to a base game provided
   on the gaming machine. The feature game may be provided on the gaming machine
   when the accumulated wagers of a player of the gaming machine reaches a
   predetermined amount. Alternatively, the feature game may be provided randomly,
   either dependent on symbols occurring in the base game or independent of symbols
15 occurring in the base game.
   In one embodiment, the variables are dice, whereby each face of each die shows one of
   said plurality of possible values and whereby the assignment of the dice includes
   grouping the dice into groups, each group associated with a said prize and whereby the
   step of determining a combined value for a said group includes rolling the dice assigned
20 to that group and combining the rolled values of the dice in the group.
   In one embodiment, the number of variables in said plurality of variables exceeds the
   number of said plurality of groups. There may be twice as many variables in the plurality
   of variables as there are groups in the plurality of groups. Alternatively, there may be
   more than twice as many variables in the plurality of variables as there are groups in the
25 plurality of groups.
   In one embodiment, the step of assigning the variables into a plurality of groups is made
   by a player of the gaming machine by operating a user interface of the gaming machine.
   In one embodiment, the method further includes selecting the plurality of groups into
   which the variables are assigned from a larger set of groups, whereby a different
30 plurality of groups can be selected in different game plays of the game.
   In one embodiment, a prize associated with a group is awarded if the combined value
   for that group exceeds a prize threshold value, which is fixed and constant for each play
   of the game. If the prize threshold value is not exceeded, the prize not awarded may be
                                                                      103223771 (GHMatters) P88030 AU.3 30/05118

                                                  3
   added to the prize associated with the same group in a subsequent play of the game.
   In one embodiment, a prize associated with a group is awarded if the combined value
   for the group exceeds a prize threshold value, which is variable and determined based
   on the combined value of one or more second variables also assigned to the same
 5 group. In one implementation of this embodiment, the one or more second variables
   may be automatically assigned by a controller of the gaming machine. In another
   implementation in which the gaming machine is linked to another gaming machine, the
   one or more second variables are assigned by a player playing the other gaming
   machine.
10 According to another aspect, the invention broadly resides in a method implemented on a
   gaming system including a plurality of linked gaming machines, the method including
   providing a tournament game on two or more of the linked gaming machines by:
            for each gaming machine assigning tournament game variables into a plurality of
   groups, wherein:
15                 each group on one gaming machine is associated with one of the plurality
   of groups on each of the other gaming machines in the tournament;
                   suggesting to the player an optimal number of variables to assign to at
            least one of the groups, wherein said suggesting is representative of a maximal
            chance of winning a prize associated with the at least one group;
20                  receiving at least one assignment from the player of a number of variable
            assigned to each of the groups;
                   the number of variables assigned to each group is variable between plays
   of the tournament game
                   the number of variables assigned to associated groups on different
25 gaming machines may be different for the same play of the tournament game;
            for each gaming machine, determining values for the tournament game variables
   and a combined value for the tournament game variables assigned to each group;
            awarding a prize associated with a said group, dependent on the combined
   values for that group for each of the gaming machines in the tournament game.
30 In one embodiment, the step of awarding a prize associated with a group includes
   awarding the prize to one of the gaming machines in the tournament to the exclusion of
   another of the gaming machines in the tournament so as to implement a tournament
   game in which gaming machines compete for the prize associated with the group.
   In a different embodiment, the step of awarding a prize associated with a group includes
35 awarding the prize to each of the gaming machines in the tournament if the combined
                                                                     103223771 (GHMatters) P88030 AU.3 30/05118

                                                   4
   values across the gaming machines satisfy win a criterion or win criteria so as to
   implement a tournament game in which gaming machines cooperate to win the prize.
   In one embodiment, the tournament game is provided as a feature game. The feature
   game may be provided on a said gaming machine when a trigger condition has been
 5 achieved on that gaming machine, wherein the trigger condition is determined
   independently for each said gaming machine and wherein the method includes
   matching gaming machines that achieve the trigger condition. The feature game may be
   provided on a plurality of said gaming machines simultaneously when a single trigger
   condition occurs. The trigger condition may be the accumulated wagers of a player of the
10 gaming machine reaching a predetermined amount. The trigger condition may be the
   elapsing of a time period. The trigger condition may be dependent on other
   variables. The trigger condition may be dependent on a combination of variables.
   In one embodiment, the variables for the game are dice, which are rolled to determine
   their values.
15 In one embodiment, the number of variables in said plurality of variables exceeds the
   number of said plurality of groups.
   In one embodiment, the step of assigning the variables into a plurality of groups is made
   by a player of the gaming machine by operating a user interface of the gaming machine.
   In one embodiment, a prize associated with a group is only awarded if the combined
20 value for that group exceeds a prize threshold value, which is fixed and constant for
   each play of the game. If the prize threshold value is not exceeded, the prize not
   awarded may be added to the prize associated with the same group in a subsequent
   play of the tournament game.
   In one embodiment, the method further includes, for each gaming machine, selecting
25 the plurality of groups into which the variables are assigned from a larger set of groups,
   whereby a different plurality of groups can be selected in different game plays of the
   game. For the same game play of the tournament game, there may be at least a
   chance that different groups will be selected for different gaming machines.
   According to another aspect, the invention broadly resides in a gaming machine
30 including game controller and a user interface including a display and selectors, the
   game controller configured to provide a game by receiving inputs at the selectors,
   displaying symbols on the display and cause the awarding of a prize on the occurrence
   of winning events, wherein providing the game further includes:
           assigning a plurality of variables into a plurality of groups, wherein each variable
                                                                        103223771 (GHMatters) P88030 AU.3 30/05118

                                                   5
   has a plurality of possible values and wherein the number of variables assigned to each
   group is variable between plays of the game;
            suggesting to a player an optimal number of variables to assign to at least one of
   the groups, wherein said suggesting is representative of a maximal chance of winning a
 5 prize associated with the at least one group;
            receiving at least one assignment from the player of a number of variables
   assigned to each of the groups;
            for each variable assigned to each of the groups, determining a value from within
   the plurality of possible values of that variable and determining a combined value for each
10 group;
            dependent on the determined combined value for a said group, awarding a prize
   associated with that group. The game controller may be further configured to implement
   the method described in the preceding paragraphs.
   According to another aspect, the invention broadly resides in a gaming system including
15 plurality of linked gaming machines, the gaming system including a game controller to
   control play of a tournament game on each of the gaming machines, the gaming
   machines each including a user interface including a display and selectors, wherein the
   gaming system provides a tournament game on two or more of the linked gaming
   machines by:
20          for each gaming machine assigning tournament game variables into a plurality of
   groups, wherein:
                    each group on one gaming machine is associated with one of the plurality
   of groups on each of the other gaming machines in the tournament;
                    suggesting to a player an optimal number of variables to assign to at least
25 one of the groups, wherein said suggesting is representative of a maximal chance of
   winning a prize associated with the at least one group;
                    receiving at least one assignment from the player of a number of variables
   assigned to each of the groups;
                    the number of variables assigned to each group is variable between plays
30 of the tournament game;
                    the number of variables assigned to associated groups on different
   gaming machines may be different for the same play of the tournament game;
            for each gaming machine, determining values for the tournament game variables
   and a combined value for the tournament game variables assigned to each group;
35          awarding a prize associated with a said group, dependent on the combined
   values for that group for each of the gaming machines in the tournament game. The
                                                                     103223771 (GHMatters) P88030 AU.3 30/05118

                                                6
   gaming system may further performing the method as described in the preceding
   paragraphs.
   The invention also extends to a game controller or instructions stored so as to be
   readable by a game controller, configured to perform the method of the present
 5 invention.
   Further aspects of the present invention and further embodiments of the aspects
   described in the preceding paragraphs will become apparent from the following
   description, given by way of example and with reference to the accompanying drawings.
10                             Brief Description of the Drawings
   Figure 1:       shows diagrammatically, a view of a gaming console suitable for
   implementing the present invention.
   Figure 2:       shows a block diagram of gaming machine suitable for implementing the
   present invention.
15 Figure 3:       shows a block diagram of components of the memory of the gaming
   machine represented in Figure 2.
   Figure 4:       shows diagrammatically, a network gaming system suitable for
   implementing the present invention.
   Figure 5:       shows a flow diagram of a process performed in accordance with an
20 embodiment of the present invention.
                           Detailed description of the embodiments
   In Figure 1 of the accompanying drawings, one example of a gaming console that is
   suitable to implement the present invention is generally referenced by arrow 114.
25 The gaming console 114 includes two displays 106A, 106B on one or both of which is
   displayed representations of a game that can be played by a player and a bank of buttons
   107A and/or a touch screen 107B to enable a player to play the game. The displays 106
   may be video display units, such as a cathode ray tube screen device, a liquid crystal
   display, plasma screen, any other suitable video display unit, or the visible portion of an
30 electromechanical device. The display 106B may display artwork, including for example,
   pay tables and details of bonus awards and other information or images relating to the
   game. In alternative gaming consoles the display 106B may be omitted, optionally
                                                                    103223771 (GHMatters) P88030 AU.3 30/05118

                                                  7
   replaced by a static display.
   A credit input including a coin input 11 0A and/or bill collector 11 OB allows a player to
   provide credit for wagering and a coin output 111 is provided for cash payouts from the
   gaming console 114. A card and/or ticket reader 108 and a printer 109 may be provided to
 5 provide player tracking, cashless game play or other gaming and non-gaming related
   functions.
   Figure 2 shows a block diagram of a gaming machine, generally referenced by arrow 100,
   suitable for implementing the present invention. The gaming machine 100 may include the
   gaming console 114 shown in Figure 1 and accordingly like reference numerals have
10 been used to describe like components in Figures 1 and 2.
   The gaming machine 100 includes a game controller 101, which in the illustrated example
   includes a computational device 102, which may be a microprocessor, microcontroller,
   programmable logic device or other suitable device. Instructions and data to control
   operation of the computational device 102 are stored in a memory 103, which is in data
15 communication with, or forms part of, the computational device 102. Typically, the
   gaming machine 100 will include both volatile and non-volatile memory and more than
   one of each type of memory, with such memories being collectively represented by the
   memory 103. The instructions to cause the game controller 101 to implement the present
   invention will be stored in the memory 103. The instructions and data for controlling
20 operation of the computational device 102 may be stored on a computer readable medium
   from which they are loaded into the gaming machine memory 103. The instructions and
   data may be conveyed to the gaming machine by means of a data signal in a
   transmission channel. Examples of such transmission channels include network
   connections, the Internet or an intranet and wireless communication channels.
25 The game controller 101 may include hardware credit meters 104 for the purposes of
   regulatory compliance and also include an input/output (1/0) interface 105 for
   communicating with the peripheral devices of the gaming machine 100. The input/output
   interface 105 and/or the peripheral devices may be intelligent devices with their own
   memory for instructions and data.
30 In the example shown in Figure 2, the peripheral devices that communicate with the
   controller are the displays 106, bank of buttons/touch screen 107, the card and/or ticket
   reader 108, the printer 109, a bill acceptor and/or coin input 110 and a coin output 111.
   Additional devices may be included as part of the gaming machine 100, or devices
   omitted as required for the specific implementation.
                                                                        103223771 (GHMatters) P88030 AU.3 30/05118

                                                  8
   The bank of buttons 107A and/or touch screen 107B together with one or both of the
   displays 106 may provide a user interface 115 through which the gaming machine 100
   and player communicate. If a card/ticket reader 108 is provided, this may also form part of
   the user interface 115.
 5 In addition, the gaming machine 100 may include a communications interface, for
   example a network card 112. The network card 112, may for example, send status
   information, accounting information or other information to a central controller, server or
   database and receive data or commands from the central controller, server or database.
   The network card 112 may also enable communication with a central player account,
10 allowing cashless gaming. One or more of the peripheral devices, for example the
   card/ticket reader 108 may be able to communicate directly with the network card 112.
   The network card 112 and the I/O interface 105 may be suitably implemented as a single
   machine communications interface.
   The game controller 101 may also include a random number generator 113, which
15 generates a series of random numbers that are used by the computational device 102 to
   determine the outcomes of games played on the gaming machine 100.
   The game controller 101 may have distributed hardware and software components that
   communicate with each other directly or through a network or other communication
   channel. The game controller 101 may also be located in part or in its entirety remote from
20 the user interface 115. Also, the computational device 102 may comprise a plurality of
   devices, which may be local or remote from each other. Instructions and data for
   controlling the operation of the user interface 115 may be conveyed to the user interface
   115 by means of a data signal in a transmission channel. The user interface 115 may be a
   computational device, for example a personal computer, used by a person to play a game
25 provided from a remote game controller 101.
   Figure 3 shows an exemplary block diagram of the main components of the memory 103.
   The RAM 103A typically temporarily holds instructions and data related to the execution of
   game programs and communication functions performed by the computational controller
   102. The EPROM 103B may be a boot ROM device and/or may contain system and game
30 related code. The mass storage device 103C may be used to store game programs, the
   integrity of which may be verified and/or authenticated by the computational controller 102
   using protected code from the EPROM 103B or elsewhere.
   Figure 4 shows a gaming system 200 in the form of a network of devices. The gaming
   system 200 includes a network infrastructure 201, which for example may be in the form
                                                                    103223771 (GHMatters) P88030 AU.3 30/05118

                                                  9
   of an Ethernet network. Alternatively, a wireless network and/or direct communication
   channels, or a different type of network may be used to link the gaming machines to a
   server, each other and/or other devices. Gaming consoles 114, shown arranged in three
   banks 203 of two gaming consoles 114 in Figure 4, are connected to the network
 5 infrastructure 201. The gaming consoles 114 may form part or all of a gaming machine
   100. Single gaming consoles 114 and banks 203 containing three or more gaming
   consoles 114 may also be connected to the network infrastructure 201, which may also
   include bank controllers, hubs, routers, bridges to other networks and other devices (not
   shown).
10 One or more displays 204 may also be connected to the network 201. The displays 204
   may, for example, be associated with a bank 203 of gaming consoles 114. The displays
   204 may be used to display representations associated with game play on the gaming
   consoles 114, and/or used to display other representations, for example promotional or
   informational material.
15 Servers may also be connected to the network 201. For example, a game server 205 may
   generate game outcomes for games played on one or more of the gaming consoles 114,
   a database management server 206 may manage the storage of game programs and
   associated data in a database 206A so that they are available for downloading to, or
   access by, game controllers 101, and a jackpot server 207 may control one or more
20 jackpots for the gaming system 200.
   Further servers may be provided to assist in the administration of the gaming system 200,
   including for example a gaming floor management server 208, and a licensing server 209
   to monitor the use of licenses to particular games. An administrator terminal 210 is
   provided to allow an administrator to manage the network 201 and the devices connected
25 to the network. The different servers depicted can be distinct physical servers or logically
   distinct server processes running on a single physical server.
   The gaming system 200 may communicate with other gaming systems, other local
   networks, for example a corporate network and/or a wide area network such as the
   Internet through a firewall 211.
30 Individual player embodiment
   In one embodiment a gaming machine 100 provides the feature game on an individual
   basis. In other words, one gaming machine and therefore one player is involved in the
   play of each feature game.
                                                                    103223771 (GHMatters) P88030 AU.3 30/05118

                                                 10
   This embodiment may therefore be implemented on a standalone gaming machine 100,
   as well as on a gaming machine forming part of a gaming system, such as the gaming
   system 200 described previously herein. Unless otherwise stated, the remainder of the
   description of this embodiment assumes an implementation on a stand-alone gaming
 5 machine 100, including a console 114 as described with reference to Figure 1 and a
   game controller 101 as described with reference to Figure 3. Those skilled in the relevant
   arts will readily appreciate how this embodiment may be implemented on other gaming
   machines and in gaming systems.
   Figure 5 shows a flow diagram of a process performed in accordance with embodiments
10 of the present invention. Instructions to cause the game controller 101 to implement the
   process are in the memory 103.
   In step 1, the game controller 101 sets a plurality of jackpots to their seed values. For
   example, in one embodiment there may be four jackpots, each with their respective seed
   values. These jackpots may be:
15          Jackpot 1, with a seed value of $5;
            Jackpot 2, with a seed value of $5;
            Jackpot 3, with a seed value of $10; and
            Jackpot 4, with a seed value of $20.
   Each jackpot also has an associated win criterion or win criteria. For instance, in the
20 context of a feature game in the form of a dice game, the win criterion for each jackpot
   may be a roll of the dice that have a sum total more than a threshold value. By way of
   example:
            Jackpot 1 may have a win criterion of 6 or more;
            Jackpot 2 may have a win criterion of 6 or more;
25          Jackpot 3 may have a win criterion of 10 or more; and
            Jackpot 4 may have a win criterion of 12 or more.
   In step 2, the game controller 101 displays the jackpot values. For example, the Jackpot
   values may be displayed on the display 106B. The Jackpot values may be permanently
   displayed, or may be intermittently displayed, for example in a cycle with one or more
                                                                      103223771 (GHMatters) P88030 AU.3 30/05118

                                                  11
   other images. Alternatively, the Jackpot values may be displayed only on request, for
   example when a button in the bank of buttons 107A is depressed. The jackpots described
   in this example are variable, in that they increase over time dependent on an incrementing
   variable. In alternative embodiments the jackpots may be fixed value prizes or otherwise
 5 vary.
   The gaming machine 100 provides a wagering game, in which in response to the staking
   of a wager on one or more outcomes of the game, symbols are displayed on one or both
   of the displays 106A and 106B to represent the outcomes, and if a winning combination of
   symbols is displayed, a prize is awarded. Such games are normally designed to provide,
10 on average, a specified return to player, for example of 90%. The return to player
   contribution of the feature game described herein may be included in the calculation of the
   overall return to player of the wagering game on the gaming machine 100. However,
   despite this, for the purposes of explanation, reference herein will be made to the
   wagering game including a 'base game' and a 'feature game'.
15 The base game may be any game suitable for play on a gaming machine. Examples of
   suitable types of games include spinning wheel games, dice games, card games and
   bingo style games. The feature game may similarly be any game suitable for play on a
   gaming machine. Throughout the remainder of this description reference will be made to
   variables of the game (e.g. dice, cards, spinning wheels etc) having values. In the
20 examples below, the dice have a plurality of possible values, which when rolled (simulated
   rolling in an electronic gaming machine where the dice are displayed on a video display),
   stop to show one of the possible values on the 'upward face'. The 'value' may be a
   number, a symbol, number or letters, a combination of symbols, numbers or letters or
   other measurable quantity.
25 During play of the base game, the game controller 101 determines if a trigger event has
   occurred. Various trigger events are known, including for example the appearance of a
   particular combination of symbols in the base game (the combination of being either
   known or unknown to the player), the occurrence of a random event determined in
   response to the placing of a wager on the base game (but which is independent of the
30 symbols displayed on the base game), the player accumulating a certain value, such as
   wagering $200, or the elapsing of a time period, which may be unknown to the player and
   which may be randomly varied between occurrences of the trigger event. When the option
   of accumulating a certain value is used, the player may be allowed to accumulate wagers
   over multiple sessions if the player has an identifier and the gaming machine 100 allows
35 past accumulated wagers to be recorded by the gaming machine 100. In a gaming system
                                                                     103223771 (GHMatters) P88030 AU.3 30/05118

                                                    12
   implementation this information may be recorded centrally. If a trigger event has not
   occurred, the process returns to steps 2 and 3. In addition, there may be a requirement for
   a player to place an ante-bet or a particular type of bet, like a maximum bet, to be eligible
   for the feature game so that if the eligibility criterion has not been met, the feature game is
 5 not provided even if the trigger event occurs.
   After a trigger event has occurred, the process proceeds to step 5, in which a selection of
   the jackpots that are to be played for in the feature game is made. The player may be
   notified of occurrence of the trigger event by appropriate means, for example by the
   generation of a particular sound or visual stimulus. In one embodiment, this selection may
10 be made by the game controller 101. In another embodiment, the selection may be made
   by the player through operation of the bank of buttons 107A, or through other interaction
   using the user interface 115.
   Using the example of the four jackpots described herein above, the selection in step 5
   may be constrained to select one jackpot from a first group consisting of Jackpots 1 and 2
15 and one jackpot from a second group consisting of Jackpots 3 and 4. If the selection is to
   be performed by the game controller 101, the selection may be random, or constrained to
   select the higher value of the two jackpots in each group, with either a random or default
   selection being made in the event that there are two jackpots in the group that share the
   highest value. Alternatively, the game controller 101 could cycle through each of the
20 available options in each group.
   In some embodiments, there may be more than two groups of jackpots and/or each group
   may consist of more than two jackpots. In still other embodiments, there may be only a
   single Jackpot and each group, in which case step 5 involves selecting all available
   jackpots. In still further embodiments, there may be a single group containing at least n
25 jackpots, n > 3, from which n -1 or less jackpots are selected. Each of these embodiments
   may operate through player selection or through selection by the game controller, on a
   random, constrained, cyclic or other basis.
   In step 6, the variables of the feature game are assigned to the jackpots selected in step
   5. In one embodiment this assignment is completed by the player making a selection
30 using the user interface 115. In other embodiments, the game controller 101 may make
   the assignment and present this to the player, such assignment being random, cyclic,
   based on maximising the expected return to player or otherwise, depending on the
   particular implementation.
                                                                        103223771 (GHMatters) P88030 AU.3 30/05118

                                                   13
   The variables are the aspect of the feature game that is randomly determined and which
   influences whether or not the win criterion or win criteria for the selected jackpots have
   been satisfied. Using the previously described example of a feature game in the form of
   a dice game, the variables are the dice. Continuing with this example, and assuming that
 5 the feature game involves selecting two jackpots from a group of four, step 6 involves
   assigning some of the dice used in the feature game to one of the two selected jackpots
   and the remainder to the other jackpot. The variables are then determined, which in the
   case of a dice game involves rolling the dice.
   In step 7, the values of the dice assigned to each Jackpot are compared with the
10 threshold winning value and a decision made for each jackpot based on this comparison
   as to whether the jackpot has been won (step 8). If a threshold is exceeded, the value of
   the associated jackpot is awarded to the player by the gaming machine 100 (step 10) and
   the value of that jackpot is reset to its seed value (step 11). If the threshold of a group is
   not exceeded, then the Jackpot value for the group is incremented by the seed amount
15 (step 9) and the process returns to step 2, in which the new Jackpot values are displayed.
   It is these new jackpot values which are current the next time the feature is triggered. In
   one embodiment, in step 9, the jackpots that were not selected in step 5 are also
   incremented by their seed values.
   To continue with more particularity the example of a dice game, an example scenario may
20 be as follows: the previously described jackpots 1 and 4 are selected in step 5, and each
   have their respective seed values of $5 and $20 (the other jackpots also having their seed
   values); the win trigger values are 6 and 12; the feature game is played with four dice,
   each of which are in the standard form of having six faces, ranging in value from 1 to 6
   with an equal probability of each face being the upward facing face; in step 6, the player
25 (or alternatively the game controller 101) assigns three dice to Jackpot 4 and the
   remaining die to Jackpot 1. In this scenario, the dice may be rolled with the three dice
   assigned to Jackpot 4 showing values of 1, 2 and 4 and the die assigned to Jackpot 1
   showing a value of 6. The total for Jackpot 4 is therefore 7, less than the win threshold of
   12 and the value for Jackpot 1 equals to the win threshold. Accordingly, following step 9,
30 Jackpot 4 is incremented by $20 so as to have a value of $40 and Jackpots 2 and 3 are
   incremented by $5 and $10 respectively to have values of $10 and $20. Following step 10
   the value of Jackpot 1 ($5) is awarded to the player, with Jackpot 1 being reset to its seed
   value of $5.
   In an alternative embodiment, the win thresholds may be variable. For example, instead of
35 each jackpot having a fixed win value as described herein above, each jackpot may have
                                                                        103223771 (GHMatters) P88030 AU.3 30/05118

                                                   14
   variables of the feature game assigned to it on behalf of the house. In one view of this
   embodiment, the player competes against the house as to who wins the jackpot. The
   house may have its own dice and make its own assignment in step 6, with different
   assignments occurring for different plays of the feature game. Alternatively, the house
 5 may always make the same assignment, for example, with a larger number of dice being
   assigned to higher value jackpots.
   Continuing with a dice game example, Jackpot 1 may have one house die associated with
   it and Jackpot 4 may have three house dice associated with it. In this embodiment, steps
   1 to 6 and 8 to 11 may be completed as described above. Step 7 involves rolling both the
10 dice assigned to each jackpot in step 6 and also rolling the house dice associated with the
   jackpot. The player may win the jackpot if the dice assigned to a jackpot in step 6 have a
   combined value greater than the combined value of the house dice associated with the
   same jackpot. Depending on the allocation made in step 6, the number of dice rolled for a
   jackpot for the player may or may not equal the number of house dice rolled for that same
15 jackpot.
   From the foregoing, it will be appreciated that where step 5 involves selecting 2 jackpots,
   the player could win 0, 1 or 2 jackpots, depending on the totals of the dice allocated to
   each jackpot.
   Multi-player tournament embodiment
20 In another embodiment a gaming machine 100 provides the feature game as a
   tournament in which a plurality of players may participate. The tournament may be either
   one in which the players play against each other, or one where the players play against
   the house. These embodiments will be implemented on a gaming system including a
   plurality of linked gaming machines, such as the gaming system 200.
25 In each of the multi-player tournament examples, the general process previously
   described herein in relation to Figure 5 may also be followed and references to particular
   numbered steps below are also references to Figure 5. The following description focuses
   on how the process may accommodate multiple players and other aspects of the process
   as described above apply to the extent they are consistent with a multi-player
30 implementation.
   Because the method is to be implemented in the gaming system 200, there may be more
   flexibility as to which device implements the method. One example is provided below, but
   those skilled in the relevant arts will appreciate that many alternatives exist.
                                                                      103223771 (GHMatters) P88030 AU.3 30/05118

                                                  15
   One-to-one player tournament
   In this embodiment, players each play a base game on one of the gaming machines 100,
   using a console 114 to control play of the base game; with wagers being staked, symbols
   displayed and prizes paid according to the rules of the base game. Thus, the process for
 5 each gaming machine is as described above for steps 1 to 3. The jackpot values
   displayed in step 2 may be displayed on each gaming console 114 and/or on a central
   display 204.
   Either the individual gaming machine 100, or a central controller such as the jackpot
   server 207 may determine when a feature game trigger event has occurred. If the
10 determination of the trigger event is made by a gaming machine 100, it sends a signal to
   the jackpot server 207 providing notification of the trigger event. The jackpot server 207
   then logs this and awaits a competitor in the tournament. For instance, the jackpot server
   207 may record an identifier of the gaming machine that sent the notification. It may also
   record, where it has been provided to the gaming machine and communicated to the
15 jackpot server 207, an identifier of the player playing the gaming machine 100 when the
   trigger event occurred.
   In one embodiment, the process proceeds from step 4 to step 5 only when another
   gaming machine 100 sends notice of a trigger event, so that two players are identified as
   participating in the feature game. When this is received, the jackpot server 207 either
20 takes control of a display of the gaming console 114 to display images associated with the
   feature game, or sends a communication to each gaming machine 100 to indicate that the
   feature game should be commenced. The jackpot server 207 also selects which of the
   jackpots are being played for so as to complete step 5. Each gaming machine 100 then
   completes step 6, which may involve the player selecting the assignment of the dice (or
25 other feature variable). If an automatic selection is to be made, then this may be
   completed either by the gaming machine 100 or the jackpot server 207.
   Once the assignment has been completed, the dice are rolled and the combined values of
   the dice rolled for each player are compared. The player with the highest value for a
   jackpot is awarded the jackpot (steps 7 and 8). In a sense, the winning threshold for a
30 player is to exceed the combined score of the other player. Where there is a draw, the
   feature may be replayed or another tie-breaker game played, a random selection made as
   to which player wins, or the jackpot may be deemed not won and instead incremented
   (step 9).
                                                                      103223771 (GHMatters) P88030 AU.3 30/05118

                                                   16
   It will be appreciated that between two players, say Player 1 and Player 2, there are
   several scenarios: Player 1 winning all of the jackpots; the jackpots being split between
   Player 1 and Player 2 in any one of the available different combinations and Player 2
   winning all of the jackpots. The chance of a player winning a particular jackpot will depend
 5 on the relative number of dice assigned to that jackpot in step 6.
   In one embodiment, all jackpots selected in step 5 may be awarded, so that a player with
   the highest combined value for that jackpot is awarded the value of the jackpot, which is
   then reset to its seed value (step 11). In this embodiment, there may be no need for step
   9 and the jackpot remains permanently at its seed value. Alternatively, as described
10 above, step 9 may be implemented when the players tie.
   In another embodiment, a jackpot is only awarded if the score of the winning player
   exceeds a win threshold value. Accordingly, in this embodiment, there are two criteria to
   winning a jackpot, namely obtaining a higher value than the other player and also
   exceeding the win threshold value. If the player with the highest value for the jackpot does
15 not exceed the win threshold value for that jackpot, then the jackpot is incremented by its
   seed value (step 9).
   The gaming system 200 may provide the option for a player to either await a competitor or
   to play against the house. This option may be provided when the trigger event has
   occurred, so that if the player selects to play against the house, then the process
20 proceeds from step 4 to step 5 immediately, or alternatively when the player indicates he
   or she is ready to play the feature. If the player selects to play against another player, the
   option may be provided to change the selection to a play of the feature game against the
   house, for instance if the player tires of waiting for another player, or wishes to leave a
   gaming machine. In these embodiments, the game played against the house may be one
25 in which a fixed winning threshold is set for each jackpot, or in another embodiment, one
   in which a variable winning threshold is used.
   Multiple Player tournaments
   In other embodiments, a team of players may be formed, to either play against a team of
   house players or a team of other players.
30 For example, the jackpot server 207 may set two teams of five players - a red team and a
   blue team. As each player achieves a feature trigger (step 4), they are allowed to select
   between the red and blue teams. Once one team is full of players, then the next players to
   achieve the trigger event may be provided only the choice of the other team. Once ten
                                                                       103223771 (GHMatters) P88030 AU.3 30/05118

                                                   17
   players have achieved the trigger condition, then the feature game commences and steps
   5 to 11 are completed. In this embodiment, the combined score of all players in a team for
   a jackpot is determined and compared to the combined score of the other team. The
   jackpot is then distributed between the team members of the winning team.
 5 In the multiple player tournaments, a single selection of the jackpots in step 5 may be
   completed, so that all players in both teams play for the same jackpots. For example,
   taking the example of four jackpots previously described, the jackpot server 207 may
   select jackpots 2 and 3. Following this all players make their assignment of dice between
   these two jackpots.
10 Alternatively, the selection may be made for individual players, which increases the
   number of possible scenarios. For example, two players in a team may assign dice to
   jackpots 2 and 3, one player may assign dice to jackpots 1 and 4 and the other two
   players may assign dice to jackpots 2 and 4. In the other team, three players may assign
   dice to jackpots 2 and 3, one player may assign dice to jackpots 1 and 4 and one player
15 may assign dice to jackpots 2 and 4.
   The members of a team may be able to view what assignment has been made by other
   members of the team and/or the assignment made by the competing team and may be
   able to change their assignments in response. This may be achieved by the jackpot
   server 207 receiving assignments, and displaying the assignments on a display 106
20 and/or display 204. If this functionality is provided, then some limits may be imposed, for
   example a time limit to make and change all assignments, following which the
   assignments become fixed or if dice remain to be assigned an automatic random
   assignment takes place.
   A group of players may similarly play against the house. The house may assign and roll
25 dice as if it were a competing player as described above, with the assignment being
   random. If the number of players in a team are variable, then the number of dice assigned
   and rolled on behalf of the house will increase with the number of players in the team so
   as to match the number of dice played by the team.
   Alternatively, the house may set a fixed win threshold value for the team to exceed for
30 each jackpot. If the number of players in a team is variable, the win threshold value for
   each jackpot may be multiplied by the number of players in the team playing against the
   house.
   Variable sized teams may be provided as an option between steps 4 and 5. For example,
                                                                      103223771 (GHMatters) P88030 AU.3 30/05118

                                                  18
   when a player achieves a feature trigger event, they may select between playing
   individually against the house, playing as a member of one of a two, three or five person
   team against the house, or playing as a member of a two, three or five person team
   against another team of the same size. A subset of these options and/or other like options
 5 may be provided depending on the particular design requirements for the game.
   Alternative combined values
   The foregoing description has focussed on a dice game, where a combined value is
   formed as a sum of one or more dice allocated to a jackpot, so that for example if three
   dice are allocated to a jackpot with values of 2, 5 and 6, then the combined value for
10 evaluating the outcome of the jackpot game is 13.
   In alternative embodiments, the combined value could be a different measure from the
   dice. For example, the combined value may be a count of the number of 6's rolled. The
   win threshold may then be a roll of a certain number of 6's, for example more than a fixed
   number set by the house, more than the other player(s) or house when competing for the
15 tournament prize. Other combined values could be constructed, such as the sum of the
   lowest and highest value dice, the average value of the dice. Many possibilities exist for
   determining a combined value of a set of game variables. The game variables may or
   may not all be alike, so that for instance a combined value could be made from a
   combination of drawing cards from a deck and rolling dice.
20 Strategy game embodiment
   In both the single and multi-player embodiments described above in which the player can
   select the assignment made in step 6, a strategy game may be formed.
   For example if two players are competing in a tournament against each other, each
   player may make a first assignment, which is revealed simultaneously to the other player
25 before they make the next assignment. In one version of this embodiment the
   assignments are all completed before the variables are determined (e.g. dice are rolled).
   In another embodiment, both players make an assignment of dice and the dice are rolled
   to reveal their values before the next die is assigned to a group.
   The strategy game may be implemented against the house. Whether the house either
30 makes random assignments, assignments to maximise the chance of the house winning
   or otherwise determines the assignments is a matter for design choice. The house may
   also make suggestions to the player as the choice or choices that may maximise the
                                                                      103223771 (GHMatters) P88030 AU.3 30/05118

                                                  19
   chances of the player winning and may also make such suggestions when players are
   competing against each other.
   The foregoing description has been provided with reference to embodiments where the
   feature game is provided in addition to a base game. In alternative embodiments, the
 5 feature game may be provided as an independent game with its own entry fee or wager to
   be staked in order to play. In these embodiments, for example, the player may compete
   against the house for a jackpot or compete against other players for a prize without having
   to also play a base game. Where the competition is against the house, the game rules
   may be skewed in favour of the house to provide a return to player of less than 100%. For
10 instance all ties may be deemed to be wins by the house, or alternatively, the variables
   may be such that house has a higher probability of achieving a high score. Where the
   competition is between players, the house may take an entry fee from the players.
   While the foregoing description has been provided by way of example of the preferred
   embodiments of the present invention as presently contemplated, which utilise gaming
15 machines of the type found in casinos, those skilled in the relevant arts will appreciate that
   the present invention also may have application to internet gaming and/or have
   application to gaming over a telecommunications network, where handsets are used to
   display game outcomes and receive player inputs.
   Where in the foregoing description reference has been made to integers having known
20 equivalents, then those equivalents are hereby incorporated herein as if individually set
   forth.
   Those skilled in the relevant arts will appreciate that modifications and additions to the
   embodiments of the present invention may be made without departing from the scope of
   the present invention.
25 It will be understood that the invention disclosed and defined in this specification extends
   to all alternative combinations of two or more of the individual features mentioned or
   evident from the text or drawings. All of these different combinations constitute various
   alternative aspects of the invention.
   It will be understood that the invention disclosed and defined in this specification extends
30 to all alternative combinations of two or more of the individual features mentioned or
   evident from the text or drawings. All of these different combinations constitute various
   alternative aspects of the invention.
                                                                      103223771 (GHMatters) P88030 AU.3 30/05118

                                                   20
   CLAIMS:
   1.      A method implemented on a gaming machine to provide game play of a game,
   the method including:
            defining a plurality of variables for the game, each variable having a plurality of
 5 possible values:
            assigning the variables into a plurality of groups, wherein the number of
   variables assigned to each group is variable between plays of the game;
            suggesting to a player an optimal number of variables to assign to at least one
   of the groups, wherein said suggesting is representative of a maximal chance of
10 winning a prize associated with the at least one group;
            receiving at least one assignment from the player of a number of variables
   assigned to each of the groups;
            for each variable assigned to each of the groups, determining a value from
   within its plurality of possible values and determining there from, a combined value for
15 each group;
            dependent on the combined value for a said group, awarding a prize associated
   with that group.
   2.       The method of claim 1, wherein the game is provided as a feature game to a
20 base game provided on the gaming machine.
   3.       The method of claim 2, wherein the feature game is provided on the gaming
   machine when accumulated wagers of a player of the gaming machine reaches a
   predetermined amount.
   4.       The method of claim 2, wherein the feature game is provided randomly, either
25 dependent on symbols occurring in the base game or independent of symbols
   occurring in the base game.
   5.       The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the variables are dice,
   wherein each face of each die shows one of said plurality of possible values and
   wherein the assignment of the dice includes grouping the dice into groups, each group
30 associated with a prize and whereby the step of determining a combined value for a
   group includes rolling the dice assigned to that group and combining the rolled values
   of the dice in the group.
   6.       The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the number of
   variables in said plurality of variables exceeds the number of said plurality of groups.
                                                                    103223771 (GHMatters) P88030 AU.3 30/05118

                                                21
   7.       The method of claim 6, wherein there are twice as many variables in the
   plurality of variables as there are groups in the plurality of groups.
   8.       The method of claim 6, wherein there are more than twice as many variables in
   the plurality of variables as there are groups in the plurality of groups.
 5 9.       The method of any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the step of assigning the
   variables into a plurality of groups is made by a player of the gaming machine by
   operating a user interface of the gaming machine.
   10.      The method of any one of the preceding claims, further including selecting the
   plurality of groups into which the variables are assigned from a larger set of groups,
10 wherein a different plurality of groups can be selected in different game plays of the
   game.
   11.      The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein a prize associated with
   a group is awarded if the combined value for that group exceeds a prize threshold
   value, which is fixed and constant for each play of the game.
15 12.      The method of claim 11, wherein if the prize threshold value is not exceeded,
   the prize not awarded is added to the prize associated with the same group in a
   subsequent play of the game.
   13.      The method of any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein a prize associated with a
   group is awarded if the combined value for the group exceeds a prize threshold value,
20 which is variable and determined based on the combined value of one or more second
   variables also assigned to the same group.
   14.      The method of claim 13, wherein the one or more second variables are
   automatically assigned by a controller of the gaming machine.
   15.      The method of claim 13, wherein the gaming machine is linked to another
25 gaming machine and the one or more second variables are assigned by a player
   playing the other gaming machine.
   16.      The method of any one of claims 1 to 15, wherein the steps of assigning a
   variable to group and determining a value for that variable are both completed for a
   first said variable before being completed for the next said variable.
30 17.      A method implemented on a gaming system including a plurality of linked
                                                                     103223771 (GHMatters) P88030 AU.3 30/05118

                                                 22
   gaming machines, the method including providing a tournament game among a
   plurality of players on two or more of the linked gaming machines by:
            for each gaming machine assigning tournament game variables into a plurality
   of groups, wherein:
 5                   each group on one gaming machine is associated with one of the
            plurality of groups on each of the other gaming machines in the tournament;
                     suggesting to the player an optimal number of variables to assign to at
            least one of the groups, wherein said suggesting is representative of a maximal
            chance of winning a prize associated with the at least one group;
10                   receiving at least one assignment from the player of a number of
            variables assigned to each of the groups;
                     the number of variables assigned to each group is variable between
            plays of the tournament game;
                     the number of variables assigned to associated groups on different
15          gaming machines may be different for the same play of the tournament game;
            for each gaming machine, determining values for the tournament game
   variables and a combined value for the tournament game variables assigned to each
   group;
            awarding a prize associated with a said group, dependent on the combined
20 values for that group for each of the gaming machines in the tournament game.
   18.      The method of claim 17, wherein the step of awarding a prize associated with a
   group includes awarding the prize to one of the gaming machines in the tournament to
   the exclusion of another of the gaming machines in the tournament so as to implement
   a tournament game in which gaming machines compete for the prize associated with
25 the group.
   19.      The method of claim 17, wherein the step of awarding a prize associated with a
   group includes awarding the prize to each of the gaming machines in the tournament if
   the combined values across the gaming machines satisfy win a criterion or win criteria
   so as to implement a tournament game in which gaming machines cooperate to win
30 the prize.
   20.      The method of any one of claims 17 to 19, wherein the tournament game is
   provided as a feature game.
   21.      The method of claim 20, wherein the feature game is provided on a gaming
   machine when a trigger condition has been achieved on that gaming machine, wherein
                                                                   103223771 (GHMatters) P88030 AU.3 30/05118

                                               23
   the trigger condition is determined independently for each gaming machine and
   wherein the method includes matching gaming machines that achieve the trigger
   condition.
   22.     The method of claim 21, wherein the feature game is provided on a plurality of
 5 said gaming machines simultaneously when a single trigger condition occurs.
   23.     The method of claim 21 or claim 22, when the trigger condition is the
   accumulated wagers of a player of the gaming machine reaching a predetermined
   amount.
   24.     The method of any one of the claims 17 to 23, wherein the variables for the
10 game are dice, which are rolled to determine their values.
   25.     The method of any one of claims 17 to 23, wherein the number of variables in
   said plurality of variables exceeds the number of said plurality of groups.
   26.     The method of any one of claims 17 to 25, wherein the step of assigning the
   variables into a plurality of groups is made by a player of the gaming machine by
15 operating a user interface of the gaming machine.
   27.     The method of any one of claims 17 to 26, wherein a said prize associated with
   a group is only awarded if the combined value for that group exceeds a prize threshold
   value, which is fixed and constant for each play of the game.
   28.     The method of claim 27, wherein if the prize threshold value is not exceeded,
20 the prize not awarded is added to the prize associated with the same group in a
   subsequent play of the tournament game.
   29.     The method of any one of claims 17 to 28, further including, for each gaming
   machine, selecting the plurality of groups into which the variables are assigned from a
   larger set of groups, whereby a different plurality of groups can be selected in different
25 game plays of the game.
   30.     The method of claim 29, wherein for the same game play of the tournament
   game, there is at least a chance that different groups will be selected for different
   gaming machines.
   31.     The method of any one of claims 17 to 30, wherein the steps of assigning a
30 variable to group and determining a value for that variable are both completed for a
                                                                   103223771 (GHMatters) P88030 AU.3 30/05118

                                                  24
   first said variable before being completed for the next said variable.
   32.      A gaming machine including game controller and a user interface including a
   display and selectors, the game controller configured to provide a game by receiving
   inputs at the selectors, displaying symbols on the display and cause the awarding of a
 5 prize on the occurrence of winning events, wherein providing the game further
   includes:
            assigning a plurality of variables into a plurality of groups, wherein each
   variable has a plurality of possible values and wherein the number of variables
   assigned to each group is variable between plays of the game;
10          suggesting to a player an optimal number of variables to assign to at least one
   of the groups, wherein said suggesting is representative of a maximal chance of
   winning a prize associated with the at least one group;
            receiving at least one assignment from the player of a number of variables
   assigned to each of the groups;
15          for each variable assigned to each of the groups, determining a value from
   within the plurality of possible values of that variable and determining a combined
   value for each group;
            dependent on the determined combined value for a said group, awarding a
   prize associated with that group.
20 33.      The gaming machine of claim 32, wherein the game controller is further
   configured to implement the method of any one of claims 2 to 16.
   34.      A gaming system including plurality of linked gaming machines, the gaming
   system including a game controller to control play of a tournament game on each of
   the gaming machines, the gaming machines each including a user interface including a
25 display and selectors, wherein the gaming system provides a tournament game on two
   or more of the linked gaming machines by:
            for each gaming machine assigning tournament game variables into a plurality
   of groups, wherein:
                      each group on one gaming machine is associated with one of the
30           plurality of groups on each of the other gaming machines in the tournament;
                      suggesting to a player an optimal number of variables to assign to at
   least one of the groups, wherein said suggesting is representative of a maximal chance
   of winning a prize associated with the at least one group;
                      receiving at least one assignment from the player of a number of
35 variables assigned to each of the groups;
                                                                      103223771 (GHMatters) P88030 AU.3 30/05118

                                               25
                   the number of variables assigned to each group is variable between
           plays of the tournament game;
                   the number of variables assigned to associated groups on different
           gaming machines may be different for the same play of the tournament game;
 5                 for each gaming machine, determining values for the tournament game
           variables and a combined value for the tournament game variables assigned to
           each group;
                   awarding a prize associated with a said group, dependent on the
           combined values for that group for each of the gaming machines in the
10         tournament game.
   35.     The gaming system of claim 34 when performing the method of any one of
   claims 18 to 31.
   36.     A game controller or instructions stored so as to be readable by a game
   controller, configured to perform the method of any one of claims 1 to 31.
                                                                  103223771 (GHMatters) P88030 AU.3 30/05118

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
